
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. A History of the United States and its People: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2336
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
                
                    COLONIAL COSTUMES EARLY PURITAN
                        COSTUME A DIGNITARY IN THE 18TH CENT. A GENTLEMAN IN THE 18TH CENT. A
                        MERCHANT IN THE 18TH CENT. A GOVERNOR IN THE 17TH CENT. AN
                        OFFICER IN THE REVOLUTION. A GENTLEMAN ABOUT THE TIME OF THE REVOLUTION. A PURITAN DIVINE. A GENTLEMAN ABOUT THE TIME OF THE
                        REVOLUTION. A COLONIAL GOVERNOR IN THE 18TH CENT.
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A HISTORY OF THE
                        UNITED STATES AND ITS PEOPLE
                    FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS
                
                BY
                    EDWARD EGGLESTON
                
                    NEW YORK
                    D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                    1888
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1888, BY D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
            
            
            
                PREFACE.
                ONE of our American humorists has
                    said that it is better not to know so much than to know so many things that are
                    not true. Errors accepted in childhood become articles of faith, and are not
                    easily got rid of. The absence from this book of certain well-worn fables, which
                    have served more than one generation of American school-children for historic
                    facts, will be regretted, perhaps, on sentimental grounds. It does not seem
                    worth while, however, to keep current in elementary books statements which every
                    sound historical scholar rejects. No work of history ever yet escaped error, but
                    I have at least tried to make this a genuine history, in harmony with the best
                    historical scholarship of the time. Many laborious years passed in the critical
                    study of original printed and manuscript authorities for the history of American
                    institutions and American life have perhaps given the author of this history
                    some right to speak with assurance on questions relating to our early history.
                
                    The first requirement.
                
                Next to correctness the most important feature in a book for the
                    young is clearness. To achieve this one must not treat more subjects than can be
                    handled with sufficient fullness for comprehension. Attempts to write a little
                    about everything are fatal to lucidity. The writer for the young finds all his
                    skill taxed to be clear and to be interesting, and the two things lie close
                    together. One of the highest benefits that a good text-book in the hands of a
                    good teacher can confer is to leave the pupil with a relish for historical
                    reading.
                
                    Lucidity and interest.
                
                
                    Arrangement of topics.
                
                The order in which the various topics are treated has much to do both
                    with the clearness and the interest of a history. In the strictly chronological
                    history the reader skips from theme to theme, resuming under several dates the
                    broken thread of now this and now that story. The relation of cause and effect
                    is almost entirely lost, and history becomes a succession of events with little
                    logical connection. The understanding is benumbed, the attention is but feebly
                    roused, imagination slumbers, and 
                    memory gets small hold on occurrences that are presented like beds unstrung. The
                    rigid grouping of a history by epochs is fatal to a truly logical arrangement.
                    One of the most important of the novel features of the present history is its
                    arrangement. Discoveries, settlements, Indians and Indian wars, colonial life,
                    the French wars, government in colonial time and the rise of the Revolution, and
                    other kindred topics, are severally grouped together. So that, for instance, the
                    pupil learns about the nature of Indian life, the chief Indian wars, and the
                    means of attack and defense used by white men and Indians in successive
                    chapters, pursuing this general subject until it is finished. Cause and effect
                    are thus clearly set before his mind, and history becomes a reasonable science.
                The reviews are not placed at regular intervals, according to a stiff
                    mechanical rule, but these also follow in the main the same rule of grouping as
                    the chapters. When a chief topic is completed, there is a review, whether the
                    chapters be many of few.
                
                    Position of the reviews.
                
                The "proper knowledge of mankind is man," and the real importance of
                    history lies in the light that it throws upon humanity. For this reason liberal
                    attention has been here given to the domestic and social life of the people,
                    their dress, their food, their modes of thought and feeling, and their ways of
                    making a livelihood. The succession of events in minor wars would only weary the
                    attention, but the modes of attack and defense and the character of the arms of
                    the various belligerents are essential facts in the history of man in this New
                    World. And the story of the progress of civilization, as marked by the
                    introduction of new inventions and by changes in modes of living, is of primary
                    importance ion any history written in the modern spirit.
                
                    The history of civilization
                
                
                    A teaching book.
                
                This is from first to last a school-book. No other aim has been in
                    view in its preparation than that of making the best possible teaching book of
                    American history. The length and arrangement of the chapters, the questions,
                    topical and geographical studies, and skeleton outlines, as well as the reviews,
                    are all arranged with reference to the needs of teacher and pupil. An effort has
                    here been made to apply to history in a through and practical way the great
                    Pestalozzian principle of teaching through the eye. The suggestions for
                    blackboard illustrations,  the
                    diagrams, the abounding illustrations, and the little maps scattered through the
                    pages, are all part of a plan to make the facts of history visible, and by that
                    means to render the study easily comprehensible and therefore delightful.
                Instead of a few large maps in various colors and confused with many
                    names, among which the pupil must grope painfully for the places that pertain to
                    the events under consideration, there are in this history more maps than
                    chapters, and every one of the smaller maps is arranged to bear upon one fact,
                    or at most upon two or three in close relation. Only so many names are put upon
                    each map as are necessary to make clear the event under consideration. Not only
                    is the pupil saved from much needless toil by this plan, but maps thus arranged
                    serve from much needless toil by this plan, but maps thus arranged serve the
                    double purpose of elucidating the narrative and impressing it on the memory at
                    the same time, by giving it form to the eye. Each little map becomes a local
                    diagram of some historical fact, and the form of the map will remain the memory
                    inseparably associated with the event to which it belongs a geographical body to
                    an historical soul. Educational writers have said much about the importance of
                    teaching geography and history together. There is not, perhaps, any better
                    device for teaching the two branches in unison that these simple and perspicuous
                    maps, each immediately associated on the page with the single event to which it
                    pertains.
                
                    The maps.
                
                Though the illustrations are by some of the best artists and
                    engravers of the time, and are many of them of high artistic merit, and though
                    they are far more abundant than is usual in books of this kind, there has been
                    no thought of making this a mere picture-book. The illustrations are part and
                    parcel of the teaching apparatus; their primary use, like that of the maps,
                    diagrams, and blackboard exercises, is to make the history visible. A very
                    considerable body of historical knowledge of the most important kind might be
                    acquired from these cuts along. Illustrations of costumes, manners, implements,
                    arms, jewels, vehicles, and inventions are valuable in proportion to their
                    truthfulness. Those here given have been made under the author's personal
                    supervision, and they have cost quite as much labor and study as the text
                    itself. Many are founded on rare prints, others are from ancient original
                    drawings not before printed, and a few 
                        The illustrations.
                    
                     have been carefully drawn from
                    descriptions of contemporary writers. The device of placing many of the smaller
                    cuts in the margin serves to make the page more pleasing to the eye, while it
                    has rendered it possible to illustrate abundantly without unduly increasing the
                    size and cost of the book. The author can not forbear expressing his
                    appreciation of the liberality with which the publishers have availed themselves
                    of so many of the resources of the modern art of illustration to enhance the
                    value of this history. The illustrations have been made under the artistic
                    supervision of Mr. John A. Fraser.
                In "English as She is Taught," a definition is cited from a
                    school-boy's exercise-book to the effect that "the Constitution of the United
                    States is that part at the back of the book which nobody reads." Since no
                    school-boy or school-girl ever does read it, and since it is not a document
                    meant to be constructed by children, it seemed better to utilize the space for
                    other things than to reprint the Constitution for mere clap-trap. The same
                    remark applies to the Declarations of Independence. But I have, instead,
                    explained the purport of the Declaration of Independence in its place, and I am
                    sure the pupil will get far more from the account given in this work of the
                    various departments of our government, their origin, and their operation under
                    the Constitution, than from reading the letter of the Constitution itself.
                
                    The study of the constitution.
                
                By omitting the numbers usually placed at the beginning of
                    paragraphs, the book has been relieved of stiffness; by printing the subject of
                    each paragraph in the margin, a means of reference far more convenient is
                    provided, with the further advantage that the margins serve as a rsum of the subjects treated in the text. This feature is
                    part of the general design of the book, which aims to keep before the minds of
                    teacher and pupils the salient features of the topic under discussion, and thus
                    to discourage mere memoriter study.
                
                    Books.
                
                
                    Marginal titles.
                
                In giving titles of books for reading and reference, I have thought
                    it better to mention a few accessible books rather than to bewilder the student
                    with a long list.
                E. E.
            
            
            
                SUGGESTIONS REGARDING THE USE OF THE BOOD.
                Questions for Study follow each chapter. These are intended, in the
                    first place, to guide the pupil in mastering his lesson, to make him test his
                    understanding of the subject by analyzing and reasoning about his facts, and by
                    associating them with related facts. The teacher will also find these questions
                    helpful to him in preparing and hearing a recitation.
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                The Study by Topics which follows the questions is meant chiefly to
                    aid the teacher in conducting a recitation develops the pupil's power of
                    grasping and holding each branch of a subject in its entirety. But it can not be
                    used to the exclusion of the use of questions and answers without danger of its
                    degenerating, on the one hand, into an inadequate statement, or, on the other,
                    into a mere repetition of the works of the text-book.
                
                    Study by topics
                
                Some teachers will use now one and now the other method, testing the
                    pupil's understanding of the subject at one recitation by questions, at the nest
                    developing his power of synthesis and his mastery of language by giving him a
                    division of the subject to be stated in his own way and with his own words, and
                    then, when he has completed his statement, pointing out his omissions or
                    misapprehensions.
                
                    Questions and topics.
                
                Other teachers will prefer to combine the two plans in the same
                    recitation. This may be doneI. By a through examination of the subject by
                    questions, followed by a topical review of the whole chapter, each division of
                    the subject being assigned to a pupil in his turn. 2. Another mode of combining
                    the two is by following the recitation of each topic by questions meant to bring
                    out from the class points forgotten or obscured in the pupil's account of that
                    branch of the subject. No recitation can fully accomplish its purpose without
                    the use of questions at some stage.
                The Skeleton Summary appended to many of the chapters will suggest
                    its proper use. It may be copied on papers or on slates and filled in by each
                    pupil, or the teacher may have it written on the blackboard and then have the
                    blanks filled by suggestions from the class.
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                The geographical facts connected with each event should be brought
                    out distinctly. When larger or fuller maps than those in this book are needed,
                    the atlas or the school wall-map can be easily referred to. The small maps
                    accompanying the text may be sketched on the blackboard, as further described,
                    or they may be used from the page.
                
                    Geographical study.
                
                
                In general, the blackboard should be used wherever possible. In
                    particular:
                
                    Blackboard.
                
                1. The Study by Topics may be written on the blackboard with
                    advantage in almost every recitation. The subject under consideration is thus
                    displayed in a natural order. This may be done before the recitation begins, or
                    each topic made be added as the recitation proceeds, thus constructing a visible
                    table of the subject before the eyes of the class.
                2. When diagrams are given in the book, they may be put on the board,
                    to give a visible illustration to some proportion of size or number.
                3. Word-diagrams are often useful. See, for example, pages 13 and
                    121. In these the location of the words or phrases helps the mid to group and
                    the memory to hold important facts.
                4. It is an excellent plan to sketch the small map on the blackboard.
                    This should not be done elaborately or with too much attention to detail. The
                    most useful maps of all are mere diagrams of location sketched by a pupil rudely
                    but readily, as he might do in explaining a fact in conversation.
                The cuts, especially those illustrating life and manners, are a part
                    of the history, and the teacher should, by remark or question, draw attention to
                    the facts illustrated by them.
                
                    Pictures.
                
                The Reviews which close each group of chapters may be treated as a
                    briefer topical recitation, developing rapidly the salient points of the
                    chapters reviewed. The review may also be put upon the blackboard, in sections,
                    if not as a whole.
                
                    Reviews.
                
                In the prevailing movement to lighten the labors of the pupil in
                    school, history is sometimes taught by using the text-book for a reader. In such
                    cases, there should be a line of comment or question maintained by the teacher
                    sufficient to make sure that the chapter read is fully understood and sufficient
                    to impress what has been read on the memory. By writing the Study by Topics on
                    the blackboard, a habit of thoughtful reading will be promoted. The abundant
                    illustrations of customs and the little special maps in this book will prove of
                    the greatest advantage to teachers using this a reading-book.
                
                    The school history as a class reading-book.
                
                Topics for school composition are now and then suggested from the
                    subjects treated in the current chapter. There is a double advantage in these:
                    The puzzled pupil is helped to a topic for writing, while the best results of
                    historical study are secured by giving him occasion to exercise his thoughts
                    upon the subjects studied. The teacher will easily suggest other topics;
                    particularly may be pupil write upon the several actors in our history in those
                    schools where access can be had to works of biography or books of reference.
                
                    School compositions.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    I.How Columbus discovered America 1
                        
                    II.Other Discoveries in America 7
                        
                    III.Sir Walter Ralegh tries to settle a Colony in America
                            13
                        
                    IV.How Jamestown was Settled 19
                        
                    V.The Starving Time, and what followed 24
                        
                    VI.The Great Charter of Virginia, and the First Massacre by
                        the Indians 29
                        
                    VII.The Coming of the Pilgrims 34
                        
                    VIII.The Coming of the Puritans 39
                        
                    IX.The Coming of the Dutch 45
                        
                    X.The Settlement of Maryland and the Corolinas 50
                        
                    XI.The Coming of the Quakers and Others to the Jerseys and
                        Pennsylvania 57
                        
                    XII.The Settlement of Georgia, and the Coming of the
                        Germans, Irish, and French 62
                        
                    XIII.How the Indians Lived 71
                        
                    XIV.Early Indian Wars 79
                        
                    XV.Traits of War with the Indians 85
                        
                    XVI.Life in the Colonial Time 91
                        
                    XVII.Farming and Shipping in the Colonies 98
                        
                    XVIII.Bond-Servants and Slaves in the Colonies 104
                        
                    XIX.Laws and Usages in the Colonies 109
                        
                    XX.The Spanish in Florida and the French in Canada 116
                        
                    XXI.Colonial Wars with France and Spain 122
                        
                    XXII.Braddock's Defeat and the Expulsion of the Acadians
                            128
                        
                    XXIII.Fall of Canada 135
                        
                    XXIV.Characteristics of the Colonial Wars with the French
                            142
                        
                    XXV.How the Colonies were Governed 151
                        
                    XXVI.Early struggles for Liberty in the Colonies 156
                        
                    XXVII.The Causes of the Revolution 161
                        
                    XXVIII.The Outbreak of the Revolution and Declaration of
                        Independence 168
                        
                    XXIX.The Battle of Trenton and the Capture of Burgoyne's
                        Army 175
                        
                    XXX.The Dark Period of the Revolution 181
                        
                    XXXI.The Closing Years of the Revolution 186
                        
                    
                    XXXII.Traits and Incidents of the Revolutionary War 192
                        
                    XXXIII.The Adoption of the Constitution 197
                        
                    XXXIV.The New Republic and its People 203
                        
                    XXXV.Home and Society in Washington's Time 209
                        
                    XXXVI.Washington's Presidency, from 1789 to 1797 213
                        
                    XXXVII.Troubles with England and France.Presidency of John
                        Adams 220
                        
                    XXXVIII.Election of Jefferson.--War with Tripoli 224
                        
                    XXXIX.The Settlement of the Great Valley 231
                        
                    XL.Beginning of the Second War with England 240
                        
                    XLI.The Navy in the War of 1812 245
                        
                    XLII.The Army in the War of 1812 250
                        
                    XLIII.Expansion of the Union 257
                        
                    XLIV.From Monroe to Van Buren.--Rise of Whigs and Democrats
                            264
                        
                    XLV.The Steamboat, the Railroad, and the Telegraph 271
                        
                    XLVI.Annexation of Texas.Beginning of the Mexican War 276
                        
                    XLVII.The Close of the Mexican War, and the Annexation of
                        New Territory 283
                        
                    XLVIII.The Question of Slavery in Politics 292
                        
                    XLIX.Break-up of Old Parties.Approach of the Civil War 298
                        
                    L.How the Great Civil War began 304
                        
                    LI.Confederate Victory at Bull Run.The First Western
                        Campaign 310
                        
                    LII.The War at the East.From Bull Run to Gettysburg 317
                        
                    LIII.Various Operations in 1862 and 1863 324
                        
                    LIV.The Campaign between Nashville and Atlanta 330
                        
                    LV.From the Wilderness to Petersburg.The War in the Valley
                            337
                        
                    LVI.Close of the Civil War 345
                        
                    LVII.Traits and Results of the War.Death of Lincoln 350
                        
                    LVIII.Political Events since the Civil War 359
                        
                    LIX.Later Developments of the Country 366
                        
                    LX.Population, Wealth, and Modes of Living 372
                        
                    LXI.Literature and Art in the United States 377
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            A History of the United States and its People
            
                
                    THE SHIPS OF COLUMBUS.
                
                
                CHAPTER I.
                How Columbus discovered America.
                IT is now about four hundred years since Columbus discovered America.
                    Before that time people in Europe knew nothing of any lands on the western side
                    of the Atlantic. Trade with India was carried on by caravans, and travelers who
                    had gone to China and Japan brought back wonderful stories of the riches of
                    their cities, and of the curious people who lived in those far-away countries.
                    In order to reach these lands of wonder and to open a trade with India by sea,
                    the Portuguese had been for a long time pushing their discoveries down the
                    western coast of Africa. But the seamen of that time sailed mostly in the
                    Mediaterranean, and they were timid in the Atlantic Ocean. The Portuguese sent
                    out expedition after expedition, for seventy years, before they succeeded
                         discovering the Cape of Good Hope, and they had
                    not yet got around that cape when Columbus offered to find a new and shorter way
                    to India.
                
                    Trade with India in the time of Columbus.
                
                
                    A SAILOR OF THAT TIME.
                
                As learned men already believed the world to be round, Columbus
                    asked: Why try to get to India and China by going around Africa? Why not 
                        Columbus proposes a new way of India.
                    
                    
                        PROW OF ANCIENT WAR-SHIP
                    
                    
                    
                        COLUMBUS.
                     sail straight to the west aroung the world to Asia? He did not know
                    that America was in the way, and he thought that the world was smaller than it
                    is, and he believed that he could reach the rich lands of gold and spices in
                    Asia by sailing only two or three thousand miles to the westward. So that
                    Columbus discovered America in consequence of two mistakes.
                He first offered to make this discovery for the cit if Genoa, in
                    which he was born. Then he offered h plan to the King of Portugal. But a voyage
                    on the great Atlantic Ocean seemed a dreadful thing in days. It was called the
                    "Sea of Darkness," because no one knew anything about it, and people 
                        False notions in the way.
                    
                    
                        STERN OF ANCIENT WAR-SHIP.
                    
                    
                        Christopher Columbus was born in Genoa, in Italy. The date of
                            his birth is uncertain. His father was a humble wool-comber, but
                            Columbus received a fair education. He knew Latin, wrote a good hand,
                            and drew maps exceedingly well. He sometimes supported himself by making
                            maps and charts. He was well informed in geography as it was then
                            understood. At fourteen he went to sea, and before he sailed on his
                            great voyage he had been almost all over the known world. He had gone
                            some distance down the newly discovered coast of Africa, with the
                            Portuguese, and north as far as Iceland. Columbus married the daughter
                            of a Portuguese navigator, and came into possession of his charts. He
                            was a man of great perseverance, and he held to his idea of sailing to
                            the west through many long years of discouragement. He made four voyages
                            to America, setting out on the first in 1492, the second in 1493, the
                            third in 1498, and the fourth in 1502. Though a great navigator, he was
                            not a wise governor of the colonies he planted, and he had many enemies.
                            In 1500 he was cruelly sent home to Spain in chains. But Ferdianand and
                            Isabella, as well as the people, were shocked at this degradation, and
                            he was at once set free. His last voyage was unfortunate, and when he
                            returned to Spain, in November, 1594, the monarchs paid little attention
                            to him. Queen Isabella died soon after his return, while Columbus lay
                            sick, and when the great navigator came to court the king was deaf to
                            his petitions. Worn out with fatigue, exposure, and anxiety, the great
                            admiral died on the 20th of May, 1506.
                    
                     believed that it was inhabited by
                    hideous monsters. As the world was round, some thought that, if a ship sailed
                        down the sides of it, it would find it
                    impossible to get back up again. They said that
                    people could not live on the other side of the world because they would be
                    upside down.
                The King of Portugal was an enlightened man, and the ideas of
                    Columbus made an impression on him after a while. But he did not like to grant
                    the great rewards demanded by the navigator if he should find land; so he
                    secretly send out a ship under another commander to sail to the westward and see
                    if there was any land there. The sailors on this ship were easily discouraged
                    and they returned laughing at Columbus and his nations.
                
                When Columbus found that he had been cheated, he left Portugal to
                    offer his idea to the King and Queen of Spain, the celebrated Ferdinand and
                    Isabella. The Spanish monarchs were very busy in their war with the Moors, and
                    Columbus, who was poor and obscure, spent about seven years in trying to
                    persuade them to furnish him ships and sailors. At length, after he had waited
                    so long, they refused his terms, and he set out for France, but certain officers
                    of Queen Isabella, who believed in Columbus's theory, persuaded her to call him
                    back and to send him on his own terms.
                
                    Columbus goes to Spain
                
                
                    His departure on his great voyage, and his discovery of land.
                
                Columbus sailed from Spain, with three small vessels, on the 3d of
                    August, 1492, and was more than two months on the voyage. The Sailors were more
                    and more frightened as they found themselves going farther and  farther out of the known world. They
                    sometimes threatened to pitch Columbus overboard and return. He kept their
                    courage up by every means he could think of, even by concealing from them how
                    far they had come. One night Columbus saw a light, and at two o'clock the next
                    Columbus saw a light, and at two o'clock the next morning, which was the 12th of
                    October, 1492, a sailor on one of the vessels raised the cry "Land!" Three was
                    the wildest joy on the ships. Those who had hated Columbus, and wished to kill
                    him, now reverenced him.
                
                    THE PART OF THE WORLD KNOWN WHEN COLUMBUS SAILED IS
                        IN WHITE.
                
                Instead of finding the rich cities of Asia, Columbus had come upon
                    one of the smallest of the West India islands, which was inhabited by people
                    entirely naked, and living in the rudest manner. He afterward discovered larger
                    islands, and then sailed homeward.
                
                    What he had found.
                
                
                    His return to Spain
                
                He carried with him some gold and some of the inhabitants of the
                    islands. He was received by Ferdinand and Isabella with the greatest honor. They
                    even made him sit down in their 
                        Discoveries before Columbus.There is some reason to believe
                            that America may have been visited from Europe before the time of
                            Columbus. The inhabitants of Scandinavia (the country now divided into
                            Denmark, Sweden, and Norway) were known as Norsemen. In the old romantic
                            tales of Scandinavia there are stories which go to show that these
                            Norsemen, under the command of Leif, the son of Eric, in the year 1001,
                            and afterward, probably explored the coast of America from Labrador
                            southward for some distance. Franciful theories have been built on these
                            stories, such as the notion that the old stone windmill at Newport,
                            R.I., is a tower built by the Norsemen. There is also a tradition in
                            Wales that one Madoc, a Welsh prince, in the year 1170, discovered land
                            to the west of Ireland, and took a colony thither, which was never heard
                            of afterward. If these stories of Leif and Modoc represent real voyages,
                            the discoveries which they relate would probably never have been
                            recalled to memory if Columbus had not opened a wide door at the right
                            moment.
                    
                     presence, a favor never shown except
                    to the greatest grandees. The people who had believed him a fool when he went
                    away, followed him with cheers as he walked along the street.
                Columbus, in his second voyage to America, planted a colony on the
                    island of Hispaniola, or Hayti. In this and in two other voyages he discovered
                    other islands and a portion of the coast of South America, which he first saw in
                    1498. He never knew that he had found a new world, but lived and died in the
                    belief that the large island of Cuba was a part of the mainland of Asia.
                Who discovered America? How long is it since Columbus discovered
                    America? What did people in Europe know about America 400 years age? What did
                    they know about the roundness of the world? How was the trade with Asia carried
                    on? What stories were told in Europe at this time by travelers? How did the
                    Portuguese try to get to India at this time? Had they reached India by sea when
                    Columbus sailed to America? How many years had they spend exploring the coast of
                    Africa before they got to the Cape of Good Hope? Where is the Cape of Good Hope?
                    What shorter route to India from Europe has been made in out time? [Ans. The
                    canal through the Isthmus of Suez.] How did Columbus propose to get to India? In
                    this plan there were two mistakes: what were they? What is in the way between
                    Spain and Asia if one sails straight to the west? How far did Columbus think it?
                    It is much farther? To whom did Columbus first make his offer? To what kind did
                    he next offer his plan? What was the Atlantic Ocean sometimes called in that
                    day? What kind of creatures were thought to live in it? What foolish notion of
                    up-hill and down-hill did men get from the roundness of the earth? What did the
                    King of Portugal do to find out whether Columbus's notion was correct or not?
                    Was this fair to Columbus? How far did this ship sail? What did Columbus do when
                    he found that he had been cheated? (How near is Portugal to Spain?) What were
                    the names of the King and Queen of Spain at this time? In what war were they
                    engaged? How long did Columbus have to wait in order to persuade them to let him
                    have ships? To what kind was he going when Isabella called him back? In what
                    year did Columbus start on his voyage? On what day of what month did he sail?
                    Leaving on the 3d of August, 1492, he was how 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     long on the voyage? How did the
                    sailors feel as they sailed farther and farther into the unknown "Sea of
                    Darkness"? What threats did they make against Columbus? How did he deal with
                    them? What day of October was it on which Columbus first saw land on this side
                    of the ocean? The 12th of October in what year? How long ago is that? [Subtract
                    1492 from the present year.] Had Columbus found Asia and its rich cities? What
                    had he found? What was the appearance of the people? How did they live? What did
                    he discover afterward?
                What did be take home with him? How was he received by the king and
                    queen? How by the people? Where did he plant his first colony? Did he ever Know
                    that he had found a new continent? What did he think about Cuba?
                Tell about
                1. Columbus in Portugal.
                2. Columbus in Spain.
                3. Columbus on his voyage.
                Columbus after his return from the first voyage.
                a. Mention three false notions which made men oppose Columbus.
                1. That it would be sailing up-hill coming back.
                2. That there were monsters in the unknown seas.
                3. That nobody could live on the other side of the world.
                b. Tell what you know of two mistaken notions held by Columbus that
                    promoted his voyage.
                
                    Study by topics
                
                (Fill up the blanks.)Columbus
                    discovered America aboutyears ago. He wished to reach by sailing to the . He
                    offered to make this discovery for the King of , who secretly sent out a ship to
                    find out the truth of Columbus's idea. When Columbus saw that he was cheated, he
                    went to to lay his plans before the kind and queen, whose names were and . He
                    waited in Spain nearly years. He sailed from Spain in August, , and discovered
                    land in the month of . He first saw the continent of in 1498. But he died
                    supposing that the island of Cuba was part of the continent of .
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                The pupil may find out what he can of the life of Columbus.
                
                    Voluntary work.
                
                A subject for composition may be had by the scholar's supposing
                    him-self to have just returned with Columbus from his first voyage. Let him
                    write a letter to a supposed friend in England telling him all he can of
                    Columbus, of the ships, of the voyage, of the Indians, and of their reception by
                    the king and queen.
                
                    Composition.
                
                The "Study by Topics" may always be written on the blackboard with
                    advantage, especially where there is no other blackboard exercise.
                
                    To teachers.
                
                
                "Life of Columbus," by Washington Irving. The latest conclusions of
                    the learned about Columbus and his discoveries, in Winsor's "Narrative and
                    Critical History of America," vol. ii. For the events of the time, Prescott's
                    "Ferdinand and Isabella." For a history of the Portuguese discoveries and the
                    Spanish colonies, Helps's "Spanish Conquest of America."
                
                    Books for reference and reading.
                
                
                    THIS MAP SHOWS HOW COLUMBUS FOUND AMERICA IN TRYING
                        TO GET TO ASIA. IT ALSO SHOWS THE VOYAGES OF DA GAMA AND MAGELLAN, AS TOLD
                        IN CHAPTER II.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                Other Discoveries in America.
                A PART of the glory of Columbus's great discovery was taken away from
                    him by accident. An Italian, Amerigo Vespucci [am-a-ree'-go ves-poot'-chee],
                    whose name in Latin was written Amer'icus Vespu'cius, was with an expedition
                    that discovered part of South America in 1499. A false claim was made, indeed,
                    that Americus saw that continent two years earlier, which would be before
                    Columbus discovered it in 1498. Americus Vespucius wrote pleasantly about the
                    new lands which he had seen, and some German geographers were so pleased with
                    his descriptions that 
                        Naming of America.
                    
                    
                        AMERICUS.
                    
                    
                        Americus Vespucius was born in Florence in 1451. He went into
                            mercantile life at Florence, and after ward removed to Spain a little
                            before Columbus sailed on his first voyage. Vespucius claimed to have
                            made four voyages to the New World, the first in 1497. But it is now
                            believed that this first date is not correct, and that Vespucius was in
                            Spain during all of that year. He undoubtedly went to America several
                            times, both from Spain and Portugal. In 15003 Vespucius built a fort on
                            the coast of what is now Brazil; and he left there a little colony, the
                            first in that part of South America. Ferdinand of Spain made him
                            pilot-major of his kingdom in 1508, and he died in 1512.
                    
                     they called the country America, in
                    honor of Americus, supposing him to have first seen the continent. When North
                    America came to be placed on the maps, this name was applied to it also. Thus,
                    nearly halt the world goes by the name of a man who had no claim to be called
                    its discoverer.
                The voyage of Columbus was undertaken, as we have seen, to open a
                    trade with the Spice Islands of Asia, and the failure to find these was
                    disappointing. There was another great Italian navigator living at the same time
                    as Columbus, whose name was Zuan Cab-ot'-o. He is called in English John
                    Cab'-ot. He had been in the city of Mecca, in Arabia, and had there seen the
                    caravans bringing spices from India. He inquired of the people of these caravans
                    where they got their spices. They said that other caravans brought them to their
                    country, and that the people in those caravans said that they bought them from
                    people who lived yet farther away. From all this John Cabot concluded that the
                    spices so much valued in Europe must grow in the most easterly part of Asia, and
                    that he could reach this part of Asia by sailing to the west, as Columbus had
                    done.
                
                    John Cabot.
                
                
                    HENRY VII.
                
                The King of England at this time was Henry VII. While Columbus was
                    trying to persuade Ferdinand and Isabella to send him on a voyage of discovery,
                        
                        John Cabot, or Zuan Caboto, as he was called in the Venetian
                            dialect, was probably born in Genoa, but he was naturalized in Venice.
                            He was living in Bristol, in England, with his wife and three sons, in
                            1495, when he laid his plans before Henry VII. He received a charter for
                            discovery form that king in 1496, in which his three sons were named,
                            and he sailed on his first voyage in 1497, and the second in 1498. It is
                            probable that his son Sebastian went with him on both voyages. There is
                            no account of John Cabot's second return, nor do we know any more about
                            him after his sailing to America the second time. His son Sebastian, who
                            was a great geographer, and who lived to be very old, seems to have
                            always spoken of the voyages as though he had made them alone, but we
                            now know that it was John Cabot who discovered North America.
                    
                     he had sent his brother, Bartholomew
                    Columbus, to make a like offer to the English King. When Bartholomew returned to
                    Spain with King Henry VII's answer, Christopher Columbus had already discovered
                    the New World.
                
                    Columbus and Henry VII.
                
                
                    CABOT AT MECCA.
                
                But, though Columbus had found what he believed to be a part of Asia,
                    he had not found the region of gold and spices. John Cabot, who was then living
                    in England, believed that he might be more fortunate. He got permission FROM
                    Henry VII to sail at the expense of certain English merchants, and in May, 1497,
                    nearly five years after Columbus had started on his first voyage, Cabot set sail
                    from Bristol with only one small vessel and eighteen persons. He discovered the
                    Continent of North America, which he of course 
                        Cabot discovers North America.
                    
                    
                        INDIAN NEEDLES FOR MAKING NETS.
                    
                     supposed to be a part of Asia. He did
                    no meet an Indians, but he brought to King Henry one of their traps for catching
                    game, and a needle for making nets. He was received with great honor, and he who
                    had gone away a poor Venetian pilot was now called "the Great Admiral," and
                    dressed himself in silks, after the manner of great men of that time.
                
                    Second voyage of the Cabots.
                
                
                    "A GREAT MAN OF THAT TIME."
                
                The next year, accompanied by his son Sebastian, he set sail with a
                    much larger expedition, to find his way to Japan or China. After go far to the
                    north, he sailed along what is now the coast of Canada and the United States as
                    far to the south as North Carolina. But, as he did not find the riches of Asia,
                    the English appear to have lost much of their interest in Western voyages.
                After both Columbus and John Cabot were dead, people began to suspect
                    that the newly discovered lands were not part of Asia. In 1513 Vasco Nuez de
                    Balboa [vas'-co noon-yeth deh bal-bo'-ah] crossed the Isth-mus of Panama
                    [pan-ah-mah'] and discovered the Pacific Ocean at the west of America.
                
                    Balboa discovers the Pacific Ocean.
                
                It now became a question of finding a way through or around America,
                    so as to come to the rich trade the East Indies, which the Portuguese had
                    reached in 1498, when Vasco da Gama [vas'-co dah gah'-mah] sailed there around
                    the Cape of Good Hope. In 1520 Magellan [ma-jel'-lan], a Portuguese in the
                    employ of Spain, sailed through the straits which bear his name, and so into the
                    Pacific. It was not then known that 
                        Magellan finds a way around the world.
                    
                     one could pass around Cape Horn.
                    Magellan lost his life in the Philippine Islands, but one of his smallest ships
                    succeeded in making the circuit of the earth the first that ever accomplished
                    that feat.
                
                    MAGELLAN.
                
                Magellan's route was too long a course for trade, and many other
                    navigators sailed up and down the American coast, expecting to find some passage
                    by which they could get through the continent to go to China, India, and Japan.
                    They thought America very narrow, and, indeed, they believed that it might prove
                    to be cut through in some places by straits, if they could only find them.
                    Several great English navigators tried to discover what they called the
                    Northwest Passage, by sailing along the coast of Labrador and into the rivers
                    and bays of America.
                
                    Other explorers seek the Northwest Passage.
                
                
                    SPANISH EXPLORER
                
                For a long time nobody in England thought it worth while to send
                    colonies to North America; it was regarded only as a bar to all attempts to
                    reach Asia by the west. But, the colonists sent from Spain having found gold in
                    great quantities in Mexico and South America, the English at length began to
                    thing of settling colonies in North America, to look for gold there also.
                    Frobisher and Sir Humphrey Gilbert, in the time of Queen Elizabeth, 
                        Fernando da Magalhaens [mah-gal-yah'-ens], as his name is
                            written and pronounced in Portuguese, but who is known in English as
                            megallan, was born in Portugal. He served the Portuguese government in
                            the East Indies, and was in the expedition that discovered some of the
                            Spice Islands. Having received a slight from the Portuguese government,
                            he publicly renounced his country and entered the service of the King of
                            Spain. He sailed on his famous voyage in September, 1519, with five
                            ships. On the coast of South America he lost one of his vessels and
                            suppressed a mutiny. In October, 1520, he entered the straits that bear
                            his name. His men were very reluctant to go on, and one ship turned back
                            out of the channel and sailed home. With the three ships left he entered
                            the Pacific. At the Philippine Islands he was killed in a battle with
                            the natives. Only one of his ships, the Victoria, succeeded in getting
                            around the world, and she had but eighteen men left alive when she got
                            back, and they were sick and almost starving.
                    
                     proposed to settle such colonies, but
                    it was not until Sir Walter Ralegh undertook it that a hopeful beginning was
                    made.
                How did our part of the world get the name of America? Who was
                    Amerigo, or Americus? Was he the discoverer of America? Who first proposed to
                    give the name of America to South America?
                What was the object of Columbus's first voyage? What other great
                    Italian navigator of that time had the notion of finding the trade in spices by
                    going to the west? Where had John Cabot seen the caravans bringing spices? What
                    questions did he ask of the men of these caravans? Where did these men say that
                    they got their spices? What opinion did Cabot form about the country where
                    spices grew? How did he propose to reach the eastern part of Asia? Who was King
                    of England at this time? What had Columbus to do with Henry VII? When
                    Bartholomew Columbus got back to Spain, what had happened? What permission did
                    Cabot get from Henry VII? Who bore the expense of the voyage? How long was this
                    after the sailing of Columbus? How many men did Cabot have when he sailed from
                    Bristol in 1497? How many ships? What did he discover? What did he suppose North
                    America to be? What specimens of Indian work did be bring back with him? How was
                    he received? What was he called? How did he dress? When did he go on his next
                    expedition? What part of the American coast did he see? What seems to have made
                    the English people lose most of their interest in American voyages after this?
                    After Columbus and Cabot were both dead, what suspicion arose about the new
                    western countries? What discovery in 1513 rendered it probable that America was
                    not a part of Asia? Who discovered the Pacific Ocean? After the discovery of the
                    Pacific, what new question came up in regard to a way of trading with the East
                    Indies? Who first found a way from the Atlantic to the Pacific? In what year did
                    Magellan make this discovery? By what strait did he pass into the Pacific? Why
                    did he not go around the world? What ship first went around the world? What ship
                    first went around the world? Why was the route through the Straits of Magellan
                    not a good one for trade? How did other navigators try to find a way to Asia?
                    What did they think 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                        INDIAN'S TRAP.
                    
                    
                        CAUGHT IN AN INDIAN TRAP.
                    
                     about the width of America? Where did
                    they try to find a northwest passage? How was North America regarded by the
                    explorers? What effect did the gold found by the Spaniards in Mexico and South
                    America have on the English? Who tried to settle colonies to look for gold in
                    North America? Who was Queen of England in those times? Who made the first
                    hopeful beginning in settling English colonies in America?
                Tell what you can of four famous men: 1. Amerigo Vespucci, or
                    Americus Vespucius. 2. John cobat. 3. Balboa. 4. Megellan.
                Tell what you can of1. The naming of America. 2. The efforts to find
                    a passage through America.
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                A table showing the order of events in the two chapters. This may be
                    drawn as far as possible from the answers of the scholars. Thus:
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                The Age of Discovery
                1. American islands
                2. North America
                3. To India by Good Hope
                4. South America
                5. Pacific Ocean
                6. A way around the world
                discovered by
                Columbus, 1492.
                Johan Cabot, 1497.
                Vasco da Gama, 1498.
                Columbus, 1498.
                Balboa, 1513.
                Magellan, 1520.
                
                    Six great discoveries in twenty-nine years!
                
                The best account of the Cabots is by Charles Deane, LL.D., in
                    Winsor's "Narrative and Critical History," vol. iii.
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                Sir Walter Ralegh tries to settle a Colony in
                    America.
                SIR WALTER RALEGH was the first that landed a
                    colony of English people in this country. Having received from Queen Elizabeth a
                    charter which gave him a large territory in America, he sent out an exploring
                    expedition in 1584, ninety-two years after the discovery by Columbus. This
                    expedition was commanded by two captains, named Amidas barlowe. They landed on
                        
                        Ralegh sends an exploring expedition.
                    
                     the coast in that part of America
                    which we now call North Carolina. The country pleased them very much. They
                    wondered at the wild grape-vines, which grew to the tops of the highest trees,
                    and they found the Indians very friendly. They stayed about six weeks in the New
                    World, and, everything here being strange to their eyes, they fell into many
                    mistakes in trying to describe what they saw and heard. When they got back to
                    England, they declared that the part of America they had seen was the paradise
                    of the world.
                Ralegh was much encouraged by the accounts which his two captains
                    gave of the new country they had found. It was named Virginia at this time, in
                    honor of Queen Elizabeth, who was often called the "Virgin Queen." But the name
                    Virginia, which, we apply to two of our states, was then used for nearly the
                    whole eastern part of what is now the United States, between Maine and Georgia.
                
                    The country named Virginia.
                
                
                    SIR WALTER RALEGH.
                
                
                    
                        Sir Walter Ralegh, while yet a young man,
                        fought for years on the side of the Huguenots in the French civil wars, and
                        afterward in the war in Ireland. On his return from Ireland, it is said that
                        he won the Queen's favor by throwing his new plush cloak into a muddy place
                        in the road for her walk on. He fitted out ships and fought against the
                        Great Armada, or fleet, of Spain, when that country tried to conquer
                        England. He was a great statesman, a great soldier, a great seaman, and an
                        excellent poet and historian. He is said to have first planted the potato in
                        Ireland. King James I kept him in prison in the Tower for more than twelve
                        years, and the released him In 1618 the same king had this great man put to
                        death to please the King of Spain. When Ralegh was about to be beheaded, he
                        felt of the edge of the axe, and said, "It is a sharp medicine to cure me of
                        all my diseases."
                
                
                In 1585, the year after the return of the first expedition, Ralegh
                    sent out a colony to remain in America. Sir Richard Grenville, a famous seaman,
                    had command of this expedition; but he soon returned to England, leaving the
                    colony in charge of Ralph Lane. There were no women in Ralph Lane's company.
                    They made their settlement on Roanoke Island, which lies near to the coast of
                    North Carolina, and they explored the mainland m many directions. They spent
                    much time m trying to find gold, and they seem to have thought that the
                    shell-beads worn by the Indians were pearls. Like all the others who came to
                    America in that time, they were very desirous of finding a way to get across
                    America, which they believed to be very narrow. They hoped to reach the Pacific
                    Ocean, and so open a new way of sailing to China and the East Indies.
                
                    Ralegh's first colony.
                
                
                    QUEEN ELIZABETH.
                
                The Indians by this time were tired of the white men, and anxious to
                    be rid of them. They told Lane that the Roanoke River came out of a rock so near
                    to a sea at the west that the water sometimes dashed from the sea into the
                    river, making-the water of the river salt. Lane believed this story, and set out
                    with most of his men to find a sea at the head of the river. Long before they
                    got to the head of the Roanoke, their provisions gave out. But Lane made a brave
                    speech to his men, and they resolved to go on. Having nothing else to eat, they
                    killed their two dogs, and cooked the meat with sassafrasleaves 
                        Lane tries to find the Pacific Ocean.
                    
                     to give it a relish. When this meat
                    was exhausted, they got into their boats and ran swiftly down the river, having
                    no food to eat on the way home. Lane got back to Roanoke Island just in time to
                    keep the Indians from killing the men he had left there.
                Sir Francis Drake came to see the colony on his return from an
                    expedition to the West Indies. He furnished the company on the island with a
                    ship and with whatever else they needed. But, while he remained at Roanoke, a
                    storm arose which drove to sea the ship he had given to Lane. This so
                    discouraged the colonists that they returned to England.
                
                    The colony returns to England with Sir Francis Drake.
                
                
                    SIR FRANCIS DRAKE.
                
                Ralph Lane and his companions were the first to carry tobacco into
                    England. They learned from the Indians to smoke it in Indian fashion, by drawing
                    the smoke into their mouths and puffing it out through their nostrils. Ralegh
                    adopted the practice, and many distinguished men and women followed his example.
                    Some of the first tobacco-pipes in England were made by using a walnut-shell for
                    the bowl of the pipe and straw for the stem. It is related that, when Ralegh's
                    wervant first saw his master with the smoke coming from his nose, he thought him
                    to be on fire, and poured a pitcher of ale, which he was fetching, over Sir
                    Walter's head, to put the fire out.
                
                    Tobacco brought to England.
                
                Ralegh set to work, with the help of others, to send out another
                    colony. This time he sent women and children, 
                    
                        Ralegh's second colony.
                    
                     as well as men, intending to make a
                    permanent settlement. The governor of this company was John White, an artist.
                    Soon after White's company had settled themselves on Roanoke Island, and English
                    child was born. This little girl, being the first English child born in
                    Virginia, was named Virginia Dare.
                John White, the governor of the colony, who was Virginia Dare's
                    grandfather, went back to England for supplies. He was detained by the war with
                    Spain, and when he got back to Roanoke Island, the colony had disappeared Ralegh
                    had spent so much money already that he was forced to give up the attempt to
                    plant a colony in America. But he sent several times to seek for the lost people
                    of his second colony, without finding them. Twenty years after John White left
                    them, it was said that seven of them were still alive among the Indians of North
                    Carolina.
                
                    Ralegh's second colony disappears.
                
                
                    INDIAN PIPE DECORATED WITH FEATHERS. PIPE MADE OF THE SHELL OF THE ENGLISH WALNUT.
                
                Who gave Ralegh a charter? Of that country was Elizabeth queen? What
                    did Queen Elizabeth grant to Ralegh in this charter? In what year did he send
                    out an exploring expedition? There were two captains in this expedition; what
                    were their names? In what part of America did they land? How long did they stay
                    in America? What did they think of the country? When the two captains got back,
                    the country they had explored in America was named what? How large was Virginia
                    at that time? Why was it called Virginia?
                In what year did Sir Walter Ralegh send out his first colony? Who was
                    left in charge of it? On what island was it settled? What 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     was Ralph Lane looking for when he
                    went up the Roanoke River? What did his men eat when out of food? Who came to
                    see the colony the next year? What put the men on Roanoke Island into the notion
                    of going back to England? What did Land and his men learn from the Indians? What
                    plant did they first take into England? What kind of pipes were sometimes used?
                    What story is told of Ralegh's smoking? Who was Governor of Ralegh's last
                    colony? Why did John White go back to England? What delayed him there? What was
                    the fate of his colony?
                
                Three expeditions are mentioned:
                1. Under Amidas and Barlowe, 1584.
                2. Under Grenville and Lane, 1585.
                3. Under John White, 1587.
                Tell what you know of each of these. Also, tell What you can about
                1. Sir Walter Ralegh.
                2. The naming of Virginai.
                3. The first use of tobacco in England.
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                (Write this out or read it, and fill up the
                        blanks.) Having received a charter from Queen and to that part of
                    America which we call . On their return the new land was named , in honor of .
                    In the year Ralegh sent out his first colony, under the command of Sir Richard
                    and Ralph . This colony was taken back to England by Sir Francis . It remained
                    in America . In 1587, Ralegh sent another colony, under John . The Governor went
                    back for supplies; when he came again to America, the colony had . Both of
                    Ralegh's colonies were settled on Island.
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                Have each pupil, on a large sheet of paper, make an outline map of
                    the coast of North Carolina and Virginia. On this, mark the place of Ralegh's
                    colonies on Roanoke Island, with the date (1585) of the first colony. Note
                    distinctly on this map the Roanoke River. Preserve the map for use in studying
                    the next chapter. If thought best, the pupil may make an outline map of the
                    whole coast of the United States for use in all the chapters relating to
                    colonization. This map should be made on a piece of Manila paper not less than
                    eighteen inches or two feet square.
                
                    Geography.
                
                We can hardly suppose Lane to have passed over more than about one
                    twenty fifth of the distance from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Draw a horizontal
                    line say twenty-five inches long. Then mark one inch from the left of the line
                    to show how small a proportion of the way the explorers had traveled. The
                    outline map described above may be drawn on the blackboard for the whole class.
                Edwards's "Life of Ralegh," or Gosse's "Life of Raleigh." (NOTE.The
                    name is spelled in various ways by different writers. We have followed Ralegh's
                    own spelling.)
                
                    Books
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV.
                How Jamestown was Settled.
                AFTER the total disappearance of
                    Ralegh's second colony, many years passed before another attempt was made. In
                    1602 Batholomew Gosnold tried to plant a colony on Island of Cuttyhunk, in
                    Buzzard's Bay. If this had succeeded, New England would have been first settled,
                    but the men that were to stay went back in the ship that brought them. In 1603
                    Queen Elizabeth died, and her cousin, James VI, King of Scotland, came to the
                    throne of England as James I. In 1606, while Ralegh was shut up in the Tower of
                    London, a company of merchants and others undertook to send a new colony to
                    America. Some of the men who had been Ralegh's partners in his last colony were
                    members of this new "Virginia Company."
                
                    JAMES I.
                
                
                    The Virginia Company.
                
                It was in the stormy December of 1606 that the little colony set out.
                    There were, of course, no steamships then; and the vessels they had were clumsy
                    small and slow. The largest of the three ships that carried out the handful of
                    people which began the settlement of the United States was named "Susan
                    Constant." She was of a hundred tons burden. Not many ships so small cross the
                    ocean to-day. But the "God-speed" which went along with her was not half so big,
                    and the smallest of the three was a little pinnace of only twenty tons, called
                    "Discovery."
                
                    Departure of the colony.
                
                
                    A MERCHANT OF THE VIRGINIA COMPANY.
                
                
                On account of storms, these feeble ships were not able to get out of
                    sight of the English coast for six weeks. People in that time were afraid to
                    sail straight across the unknown Atlantic Ocean; They went away south by the
                    Canary Islands and the West Indies, and so made the distance twice as great as
                    it ought to have been. It took the new colony about four months to get from
                    London to Virginia. They intended to land on Ronanoke Island, where Ralegh's
                    unfortunate colonies had been settled, but a storm drove them into a large
                    river, which they called "James River," in honor of the king. They arrived in
                    Virginia in the month of April, when the banks of the river were covered with
                    flowers. Great white dog-wood blossoms and masses of bright-coloured red-bud
                    were in bloom all along the James River. The new -comers said that heaven and
                    earth and agreed together to make this a country to live in.
                
                    The voyage and the arrival in Virginia
                
                
                    PRESENT APPEARANCE OF JAMESTOWN
                
                After sailing up and down the river they selected a place to live
                    upon, which they called Jamestown. They had now pretty well eaten up their
                    supply of food, and they had been so slow in settling themselves that it was too
                    late to plant even if they had cleared ground. One small ladleful of pottage
                    made of worm-eaten barley or 
                        Jamestown. Misery of the colonies.
                    
                     wheat was all that given to a man for
                    a meal. The settles were attacked by the Indians, who wounded seventeen men and
                    killed one boy in the fight. Each man in Jamestown had to take his turn every
                    third night in watching against the Indians, lying on the cold, bare ground all
                    night. The only water to drink was that from the river, which was bad. The
                    people were soon nearly all of them sick; there were not five able-bodied men to
                    defend the place had it been attacked. Sometimes as many as three or four died
                    in a single night, and sometimes the living were hardly able to bury those who
                    had died. There were about a hundred colonists landed at Jamestown, and one half
                    of these died in the first few months. All this time the men in Jamestown were
                    living in wretched tents and poor little hovels covered with earth, and some of
                    them even in holes dug into the ground. As the sickness passed away, those who
                    remained built themselves better cabins and thatched the roofs with straw.
                
                One of the most industrious men in the colony at this time was
                    Captain John Smith, a young man who had had many adventures, of which he was
                    fond of boasting. He took the little pinnace "Discovery" and sailed up and down
                    the rivers and bays of Virginia, exploring the country, getting acquainted with
                    many tribes of Indians, and exchanging beads, bells, and other trinkets 
                        A SOLDIER WITH MATCHLOCK GUN AND LIGHTED
                        FUSE.
                    
                     for corn, with which he kept the
                    Jamestown people from starving. In one of these trips two of his men were
                    killed, and he was made captive, and led from tribe to tribe a prisoner. But he
                    managed so well that Powhatan [Pow-at-tan'], the head chief of about thirty
                    tribes, set him free and sent him back to Jamestown. It was in this captivity
                    that he made the acquaintance of Pochahontas [po-ka-hun'-tas], a daughter of
                    Powhatan. She was then about ten years old, and Captain Smith greatly admired
                    her. Many years after ward he told a pretty story about her putting her arms
                    about his neck and saving his life when Powhatan wished to put him to death.
                
                    Captain John Smith
                
                
                    CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH
                
                John Smith explored Chesapeake Bay in two voyages, enduring many
                    hardships with cheerfulness. He and his men would move their fire two or three
                    times in a cold night, that they might have the warm ground to lie upon. He
                    managed the Indians well, put down 
                        Smith leaves the colony.
                    
                    
                        Captain John Smith was born in England in 1579. While yet
                            little more than a boy, he went into the wars in the Netherlands. He was
                            afterward shipwrecked, robbed at sea, and suffered great want in France.
                            He fought against the Turks and slew three of them in single combat. He
                            was at length made prisoner by the Turks and reduced to slavery. By
                            killing his master he got free, escaping into Russia, after sixteen days
                            of wandering. He got back to England and soon departed with the first
                            company to Jamestown. After leaving Virginia he was the first to examine
                            carefully the coast of New England, and he received the title of
                            "Admiral of New England." He was a bold and able explorer and a brave
                            man, with much practical wisdom. His chief faults were his vanity and
                            boastfulness, which led him to exaggerate his romantic adventures. But
                            without him the Jamestown colony would probably have perished. Like many
                            other worthy men, he died poor and neglected.
                    
                     mutinies at Jamestown, and rendered
                    many other services to the colony. He was the leading man in the new settlement,
                    and came at length, to be governor. But when many hundreds of new settlers were
                    brought out under men who were his enemies, and Smith had been injured by an
                    explosion of gunpowder, he gave up the government and went back to England.
                After Relegh's failure, how long was it before another colony was
                    tried? When Ralegh sent his colonies, Queen Elizabeth was reigning over England:
                    who had taken her place by the time the new colony was sent? Where was Ralegh
                    when this new company was formed to send another colony to Virginia? In Ralegh's
                    last colony he had had some partners: what part did these take in the company?
                    In what year did this company send out its colony? How many ships were sent?
                    What can you tell about the size of these vessels? How long did it take the
                    ships to get out of sight of England? Did they sail straight for America? By
                    what route did they go? How long did it take them to get to Virginia from the
                    time they left London? (How long does it take to cross the ocean in our time?)
                    Did the new colony settle in the same place as Ralegh's colony? Why not? What
                    did they call the river into which they sailed? (What is it called to-day? Where
                    is it? What city is on its banks?) How did the country look when they saw it?
                    What did they think about it? When they had chosen a place for their town, what
                    did they call it? Why did they call the river James River, and their town
                    Jamestown? What kind of food did they have? How much did each man get for a
                    meal? What did the Indians do at this time? How often did each man have to stand
                    watch at night? What kind of water did they have? What is said of their
                    sickness? How many died in the first few months? What sort of houses did they
                    have during the time of their sickness? What sort of houses did they build as
                    they grew better? Who was very industrious at this time? Where did Captain Smith
                    sail in the little pinnace "Discovery"? What did he buy from the Indians? What
                    did he pay for the corn with? What happened to him on one these trips? After he
                    had been led from village to village, he was brought to a head chief: what was
                    the name of this chief? He was at the head of how many tribes? What did Powhatan
                    do with Captain Smith? What is said of Powhatan's daughter? What great bay did
                    Smith explore? How did it happen that he went back to England?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                
                What do you know about
                1. The voyage, and the arrival in Virginia?
                2. Foot at Jamestown? Houses at Jamestown? Sickness at Jamestown.
                3. John Smith and what he did in Virginia?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                The colonists came from . They settled on the River, in the year 07.
                    They called their town . The most active man was .
                
                    Skeleton summary
                
                Scholars who wish to know more than the lesson gives them, may find
                    out what they can of the life of Captain John Smith.
                
                    Voluntary works.
                
                Let the scholar take the map made fro the previous chapter, and
                    extend it so as to include the Chesapeake Bay and James River. Mark 1607 at the
                    site of Jamestown. Write John Smith, 1608, in Chesapeake Bay. Then, in order to
                    get relations with modern times, mark the present site of Richmond with R., of
                    Washington with W., of Baltimore with B.
                
                    Geography.
                
                "Life of John Smith," by Charless Dudley Warner. "Life of
                    Pochahontas," by E. Eggleston and Mrs. Seelye. Bancroft's United States."
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER V.
                The Starving Time, and what Followed.
                WHEN Captain John Smith went back to
                    England, in 1609, there were nearly five hundred white people in Virginia. But
                    the settlers soon got into trouble with the Indians, who lay in the woods and
                    killed every one that ventured out. There was no longer any chance to buy corn,
                    and the food was soon exhausted. The starving people ate the hogs, the dogs, and
                    the horses, even to their skins. Then they ate rats, mice, snakes, toadstools,
                    and whatever they could get that might stop their 
                        The starving time.
                    
                     hunger. A dead Indian was presently
                    eaten, and, as their hunger grew more extreme, they were forced to consume their
                    own dead. Starving men wandered off into the woods and died there; their
                    companions, finding them, devoured them as hungry wild beasts might have done.
                    This was always afterward remembered as "the starving time."
                Along with the people who came at the close of John: Smith's time,
                    there had been sent another ship-load of people, with Sir Thomas Gates, a new
                    governor for the colony. This vessel had been shipwrecked, but Gates and his
                    people had got ashore on the Bermuda Islands. These islands had no inhabitants
                    at that time. Here these shipwrecked people lived well on wild hogs. When spring
                    came they built two little vessels of the cedar-trees which grew on the island.
                    These they rigged with sails taken from their wrecked ships, and getting their
                    people aboard they made their way to Jamestown.
                
                    Sir Thomas Gates wrecked on the Bermuda Islands.
                
                When they got there they found alive but sixty of the four hundred
                    and ninety, people left in Virginia in the autumn before, and these sixty would
                    all have died had Gates been ten days later in coming. The food that Gates
                    brought would barely last them sixteen days. So he 
                    
                        Gates reaches Jamestown.
                    
                     put the Jamestown people aboard his
                    little cedar ship intending to sail to Newfoundland, in hope of there falling in
                    with some English fishing-vessels. He set sail down the river, leaving not one
                    English settler on the whole continent of America.
                But before Gates and his people got out of the James River they met a
                    long boat rowing up toward them. Lord De la Warr had been appointed governor of
                    Virginia, and sent out from England. From some men at the mouth of the river he
                    had learned that Gates and all the people were coming down. He sent his long
                    boat to turn them back again. On a Sunday morning De la Warr landed in Jamestown
                    and knelt on the ground a while in prayer. Then he went to the little church,
                    where he took possession of the government and rebuked the people for the
                    idleness that had brought them into such suffering.
                
                
                    Arrival of Lord De la Warr.
                
                During this summer of 1610 a hundred and fifty of the settlers died,
                    and Lord De la Warr, finding himself very ill, left the colony. The next year
                    Sir Thomas Dale took charge, and Virginia was under his government and that of
                    Sir Thomas Gates for five years afterward.
                
                    De la Warr's time.
                
                Dale was a soldier, and ruled with extreme severity. He forced the
                    idle settlers to labor, he drove away some of the Indians, settled some new
                    towns, and he built fortifications. But he was so harsh that the people hated
                    him. He punished men by flogging and by setting them 
                        Sir Thomas Dale's government.
                    
                     to work in irons for years. Those who
                    rebelled or ran away were put to death in cruel ways; some were burned alive,
                    others were broken on the wheel, and one man, for merely stealing food, was
                    starved to death.
                Powhatan, the head chief of the neighboring tribes, gave the colony a
                    great deal of trouble during the first part of Dales time. His daughter,
                    Pocahontas, who, as a child, had often played with the boys within the palisades
                    of Jamestown, and had shown herself friendly to Captain Smith and others in
                    their trips among the Indians, was now a woman grown. While she was visiting a
                    chief named Japazaws, an English captain named Argall hired that chief with a
                    copper kettle to betray her into his hands. Argall took her a captive to
                    Jamestown. Here a white man by the name of John Rolfe married her, after she had
                    received Christian baptism. This marriage brought about a peace between Powhatan
                    and the English settlers in Virginia.
                
                    The capture of Pocahontas. Her marriage.
                
                
                    PORTRAIT OF POCAHONTAS.
                
                When Dale went back to England in 1616 he took with him some of the
                    Indians. Pocahontas, who was now called "the Lady Rebecca," and her husband went
                    to England with Dale. Pocahontas was called a "princess" 
                        Pocahonatas in England.
                    
                     in England, and received much
                    attention. But she died when about to start back to the colony, leaving little
                    son.
                The same John Rolfe who married Pocahontas was the first Englishman
                    to raise tobacco in Virginia. This he did in 1612. Tobacco brought a large price
                    in that day, and, as it furnished a means by which people in Virginia could make
                    a living, it helped to make the colony successful. But in 1616 there were only
                    three hundred and fifty English people in all North America.
                
                    Tobacco first raised in Virginia.
                
                
                    GETTING READY TO GO TO VIRGINIA; SHOWING THE DRESS
                        OF PEOPLE IN THAT TIME.
                
                How many people were left in the colony in 1609, when John Smith went
                    back to English? How did the settlers get on with the Indians at this time? Why
                    could they not get corn? Mention some of the things eaten by the people in their
                    hunger. What was this time called?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What had become of the ship in which Sir Thomas Gates had sailed the
                    year before? What did Gates and his people find to eat on the Bermuda Islands?
                    How did they get away from Bermuda? What state did they find the Jamestown
                    colony in when they came to Virginia? How many days' supply of food for all the
                    people did Sir Thomas Gates have? 
                    What did he conclude to do? What happened to Gates before he got out of the
                    river? Who had sent this long boat? What did Lord De la Warr do first when he
                    landed at Jamestown? What took place at the church? How many of the people died
                    in the sickness of this summer? Why did Lord De la Warr leave Virginia? What was
                    Dale's profession? What kind of a person was he? What good effect came from his
                    government? But the people hated him: why? Mention some of the punishments used
                    by him. How did Powhatan and the Indians behave during the early part of Dale's
                    time? What was the name of Powhatan's daughter who had often come to Jamestown?
                    Where was she staying? How did Argall get her on board his ship? Where did he
                    take her? To whom was she married? What effect did this have? When Pocahontas
                    went to England, how was she treated? What happened to her when she was about to
                    sail to America? Who first raised tobacco in Virginia? What effect did this have
                    on the colony? How many people were there in Virginia in 1616? The colony first
                    reached Virginia in 1607: how long had it been settled when Dale left in 1616?
                    Subtract 1607 from 1616.
                Tell about 
                        
                            1. The Starving time.
                        
                        
                            2. Sir Thomas Gates's shipwreck.
                        
                        
                            3. Gates's arrival at Jamestown and the departure of the
                                colony.
                        
                        
                            4. Coming of Lord De la Warr.
                        
                    
                
                Also-a. Dale's government. b. pocahontas. c.
                    Tobacco in Virginia.
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER VI.
                The Great Charter of Virginia, and the First
                    Massacre by the Indians.
                DURING all the early years of the
                    Virginia colony the people were fed and clothed out of a common stock of
                    provisions. They were also obliged to work for this stock. No division was made
                    of the land, nor could the industrious man get any profit by his hard work. The
                    laziest man was as well off as the one who worked hardest, and under this
                    arrangement men neglected their work, and the colony was always poor. The men
                    had been 
                        Living and working in common.
                    
                     promised that after five years they
                    should have land of their own and be free, but this promise was not kept. In
                    1614 Sir Thomas Dale gave to some who had been longest in Virginia three acres
                    of ground apiece, and allowed them one month in the year to work on their little
                    patches. For this they must support themselves and give the rest of their work
                    to the common stock. This arrangement made them more industrious. But the cruel
                    military laws put in force by the governor made Virginia very unpopular.
                
                    ENGLISH COUNTRYMAN AT THAT TIME.
                
                Argall, who came after Dale, governed very badly, and the colony was
                    almost ruined. In 1618 many new emigrants were sent, and Lord De la Warr was
                    again sent as governor, but he died on the way. The "Virginia Company," of
                    London, which had the government of the colony in November, 1618, granted to
                    Virginia a "Great Charter," under which the people of the colony were allowed a
                    voice in making their own laws. This was the beginning of free government in
                    America. Under this charter the government of Virginia was put into the hands of
                    a governor, a "council of estate," and a "general assembly." The other American
                    colonies afterward took pattern from this threefold government.
                
                    The Great Charter of 1618.
                
                The government of the United States by a president, a senate, and a
                    house of representatives shows that the ideas put into the Great Charter have
                    left their mark on our States also show traces of the same idea. Each State has
                    a governor, a senate, and a house of representatives. So that the plan arranged
                    in 1618 for a few hundred people in Virginia was a tiny stream that has spread
                    out into a great river.
                
                    Features of the charter government that remain.
                
                
                The Great Charter also gave the people of Virginia the right to
                    divide the land into farms, and to own and work ground each for himself. When
                    the new governor, Sir George Yeardley, got to Virginia in the spring of 1619,
                    bringing this good news that the settlers were to live under laws of their own
                    making, and were to enjoy the fruits of their own labors, they thought
                    themselves the happiest people in the world.
                
                    Division of land in Virginia.
                
                About this time it was thought that the colony would be more firmly
                    planted if the colonists had wives. Young women were therefore sent out to be
                    married to the settlers. But, before any man could marry one of these, he was
                    obliged to gain her consent, and to pay the cost of her passage, which was about
                    a hundred and fifty pounds of tobacco. This venture proved very satisfactory to
                    the Virginians, and women were therefore sent for wives from time to time for
                    years afterward. When the colonists had land of their own, they felt themselves
                    at home in America, and no longer thought of going back to England.
                
                    Sending of wives to Virginia.
                
                
                    COUNTRYWOMAN OF THE TIME.
                
                Before this there had been a good many small wars and troubles of one
                    kind or other with the Indians. But as the Indians had few fire-arms, the white
                    men could easily defend themselves. After 1619 many efforts Money was given to
                    educate their children, and a college was planned for them. One ambitious Indian
                    brave, whom the white people called "Jack of the Feather." and who was believed
                    to be proof against bullets, was suspected of wishing war. At length he killed a
                    white man, and 
                        "Jack of the Feather."
                    
                    
                     the white man's servants, in trying
                    to take him to the governor, shot him. The Indians did not show any resentment
                    at his death at first, and O-pe-chan'-ka-no, who had become head chief on the
                    death of Powhatan, said that the sky might fall sooner than he would break the
                    peace.
                But on the 22nd of March, 1622, while the men of the clolony were in
                    the fields, the Indians suddenly fell on the settlements, killing the white
                    people mostly with their own axes, hatches, and hoes. Three hundred and forty
                    seven men, women and children were killed in a single day. One Indian lad living
                    in a white man's house, had given warning during the night before, and some of
                    the settlements had time to prepare themselves for defense. From this time on
                    there was almost continual war with the Indians for many years.
                
                
                    The first massacre by the Indians.
                
                In 1624 the Virginia Company, of London, was dissolved, and the
                    colony was put under the government of the king. But the king, James I, when he
                    put down the company, promised to the colony all the liberties which they then
                    enjoyed. This promise was not well kept by his successors in after-years; the
                    Virginia were often oppressed by the governors sent to them, but the right to
                    pass laws in the General Assembly was never taken away.
                
                    The Virginia Company dissolved.
                
                
                How were the settlers in Virginia clothed and fed during the early
                    years of the colony? What was done with the proceeds of their work? How was the
                    land held at first? What was the result of this system? What encouragement would
                    a man have to work industriously? Do you think such a system fair? What promise
                    had been made to the colonists? How was it kept? What arrangement did Sir Thomas
                    Dale make in 1614? What effect did this have on the industry of the colonists?
                    What made Virginia unpopular at this time? What kind of laws did the colony
                    have? What kind of a governor was Argall?
                Who was sent for governor in 1618? What happened to him? What was the
                    beginning of free government in America? Who granted the Great Charter of 1618?
                    It established three branches of the government in Virginia: what were they?
                    What three law-making powers in the government of the United States to-day
                    correspond somewhat to the governor, the council of estate, and the General
                    Assembly of Virginia under the Great Charter? How do the governments of our
                    States resemble this first government? What other rights of our States resemble
                    this first government? What other rights did the charter of 1618 give to
                    Virginia? When Sir George Yeardley, the new governor, got to Virginia with the
                    Great Charter, how did the people feel about it? In what year did Yeardley reach
                    Virginia? What measures were taken in 1619 to supply the Virginians with wives?
                    What did a man have to pay for his wife? Had there been any Indian wars before
                    this time? What advantage did the white man have over the Indians? What was done
                    for the Indians after 1619? What is said of "Jack of the Feather"? Why and how
                    was he killed? Who was chief in place of Powhatan? What did Opechankano say
                    about the peace? What took place on the 22nd of March, 1622? How were the white
                    people killed? Who gave warning the night before? How many of the colonists were
                    killed? What was the relation between the white people and the Indians after
                    this? What change took place in the government of Virginia in 1624? What did the
                    king promise to the colonists when he made this change? Who was king of England
                    at this time? How was his promise, that the Virginians should have all their
                    liberties, kept by his successors? What right was never taken away?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                Tell what you know of 
                        
                            1. Common land and common living in Virginia.
                        
                        
                            2. The division of the land.
                        
                        
                            3. The Great Charter and the three branches of
                                government.
                        
                    
                
                Also tell what you can 
                        
                            1. Of the sending of wives to Virginia.
                        
                        
                            2. Of the Indian massacre.
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                
                    HISTORY TEACHES.
                
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                NOTE.In this and the preceding
                    chapters some statements are made which will be unfamiliar even to those well
                    acquainted with the history of the settlement of Virginia. These are founded,
                    however, on a careful study of the oldest existing manuscript authorities,
                    preserved in the Library of Congress, in the British Museum, and in the British
                    Public Record Office.
            
            
                CHAPTER VII.
                The Coming of the Pilgrims.
                
                IN the seventeenth century (that is
                    between the year 1600 and the year 1700) there was much religious persecution.
                    In some countries the Catholics persecuted the Protestants, in other countries
                    the protestants persecuted the Catholics, and sometimes one kind of Protestants
                    persecuted another. There were people in England who did not like the ceremonies
                    of the Church of England, as established by law. These were called Puritans.
                    Some of these went so far as to separate themselves from the Established Church,
                    and thus got the name of Separatists. They were persecuted in England, and many
                    of them fled to Holland.
                
                    The separatists
                
                Among these were the members of a little Separatist congregation in
                    Scrooby, in the north of England. Their pastor's name was John Robinson. In
                    1607, the 
                        The pilgrims in Holland.
                    
                    
                    
                        PILGRIM FAREWLL AT DELFT HAVEN.
                    
                     year in which Jamestown was settled,
                    these persecuted people left England and settled in Holland, where they lived
                    about thirteen years, most of the time in the city of Leyden [li'-den]. Then
                    they thought they would like to plant a colony in America, where they could be
                    religious in their own way. These are the people that we call "The Pilgrims," on
                    account of their wanderings for the sake of their religion.
                About half of them were to go first. The rest went down to the sea to
                    say farewell to those who were going. It was a sad parting, as they all knelt
                    down on the shore and prayed together. The Pilgrims came to America in a ship
                    called the Mayflower. There were about a hundred of them, and they had a stormy
                    and wretched passage. They intended to go to the Hudson River, but their captain
                    took them to Cape Cod. After exploring the coast north of that cape for some
                    distance, they selected as a place to land a harbor which had been called
                    Plymouth on the map prepared by Captain John Smith, who had sailed along this
                    coast in an open boat in 1614.
                
                    The voyage to America in the Mayflower.
                
                
                    PURITAN OF THE MIDDLE CLASS
                
                All the Indians who had lived at this place had died a few years
                    before of a pestilence, and the Pilgrims found the Indian fields unoccupied.
                    They first landed at this place on the nth day of December, 1620, as the days
                    were then counted. This is the same as the 21st of December now, the mode of
                    counting having changed since that time. (Through a mistake, the 22d of December
                    is generally kept in New England as "Forefathers' Day.") Before landing, the
                    Pilgrims drew up an agreement by which they promised to be governed.
                
                    The landing of the Pilgrims.
                
                The bad voyage, the poor food with which they were provided, and a
                    lack of good shelter in a climate colder 
                        PURITAN OF THE MIDDLE CLASS.
                    
                     than that from which they came, had
                    their natural effect. Like the first settlers at Jamestown, they were soon
                    nearly all sick. Forty-four out of the hundred Pilgrims died before the winter
                    was ended, and by the time the first year was over half of them were dead. The
                    Pilgrims were afraid of the Indians, some of whom had attacked the first
                    exploring party that had landed. To prevent the savages from finding out how
                    much the party had been weakened by disease, they leveled all the graves, and
                    planted Indian corn over the place in which the dead were buried.
                
                
                    Half of the Pilgrims die.
                
                One day after the winter was over, an Indian walked into the village
                    and said in English, 'Welcome, Englishmen." He was a chief named Sam-o'-set, who
                    had learned a little English from the fishermen on the coast of Maine. Samoset
                    afterward brought with him an Indian named Squanto, who had been carried away to
                    England by a cruel captain many years before, and then brought back. Squanto
                    remained with the Pilgrims, and taught them how to plant their corn as the
                    Indians did, by putting one or two fish into every hill for manure. He taught
                    them many other things, and acted as their interpreter in their trading with the
                    Indians. He told the Indians that they must keep peace with the white men, who
                    had the pestilence stored in their cellar along with the gunpowder! The
                    neighboring chief, Mas-sa-so'-it, was also a good friend to the Pilgrims as long
                    as he lived.
                
                    First acquaintance with the Indians.
                
                Captain Myles Standish was the military commander at Plymouth. He
                    dealt severely with any Indians supposed 
                        Myles Standish and the Indians.
                    
                     to be hostile. Finding that certain
                    of the Massachusets Indians were planning to kill all the whites, he and some of
                    his men seized the plotters suddenly and killed them with the knives which the
                    Indians wore suspended from their own necks.
                
                    Pilgrims at Home. The Pilgrims held their meetings in a square
                        house on top of a hill at Plymouth. On the flat roof of this house were six
                        small cannon. The people were called to church by the beating of a drum. The
                        men carried loaded fire-arms with them when they went to meeting on Sunday,
                        and put them where they could reach them easily. The town was surrounded by
                        a stockade and had three gates. Elder Brewster was the religious teacher of
                        'the Pilgrims at Plymouth; their minister, John Robinson, having stayed with
                        those who waited in Holland, and died there. It is said that Brewster, when
                        he had nothing but shell-fish and water for dinner, would cheerfully give
                        thanks that they were "permitted o suck of the abundance of the seas and of
                        the treasures hid in the sand."
                
                The people of Plymouth suffered much from scarcity of food for
                    several years. They had often nothing but oysters or clams to eat for a long
                    time together, and no drink but water. Like the Jamestown people (see page 29),
                    they tried a plan of living out of a common stock, but with no better success.
                    In 1624 each family received a small allotment of land for its own, and from
                    that time there was always plenty to eat in Plymouth. Others of the Pilgrims
                    came to them from Holland, as well as a few emigrants from England. Plymouth
                    Colony was, next to Virginia, the oldest colony of all, 
                        PILGRIMS ESCORTING THE GOVERNOR, ELDER
                            BREWSTER, AND MYLES STANDISH TO MEETING.
                    
                     but it did not grow very fast, and in
                    1692, by a charter from King William III, it was united with Massachusetts, of
                    which its territory still forms a part.
                
                    Plymouth united with Massachusetts in 1692.
                
                When we say "the seventeenth century," what years do we mean? What is
                    said of persecution in the seventeenth century? What ceremonies did the Puritans
                    dislike? What were those Puritans called who went so far as to separate from the
                    Church of England? What happened to these Separatists? When they were
                    persecuted, where did they go? What is said of the Separatists of Scrooby? What
                    was their pastor's name? Where did they go when they were persecuted? To what
                    city in Holland? How long did they live in Holland? What did they then propose
                    to do? What name is now given to these people? How many of them were to go to
                    America first? How did the rest say farewell to them? What was the name of the
                    ship in which they came to America? What kind of a voyage did they have? Where
                    did they select a place to land? Who had called this Plymouth? (Who was this
                    Captain John smith?) What had become of the Indians who lived at Plymouth? (What
                    is a pestilence?) What advantage did the Pilgrims get from settling where there
                    had been an Indian village? In what year did the Pilgrims land at Plymouth? In
                    what month? On what day of December? But the "old style" which they used then
                    has been changed since that time: What day of the month now is the same as the
                    11th of December, 1620? How did the Pilgrims arrange about their government?
                    What four things helped to make the Pilgrims suffer with illness? How many died
                    during the first winter? How many died in the first year? How did the Pilgrims
                    feel about the Indians? Had they seen any of them? What did they do to hide from
                    the Indians the fact that so many of them had died? What did the first Indian
                    say who came into Plymouth? What was his name? Where had he learned these words?
                    What was the name of the Indian that Samoset brought with him afterward? How did
                    Squanto get to England? What did he do for the Pilgrims? What story did he tell
                    to frighten the other Indians? What is said of Massasoit? Who was Captain Myles
                    Standish? How did he deal with hostile Indians? What did he do to the Indians
                    who planned to put all the English to death? What kind of food did the people at
                    Plymouth have to eat? What plan of work and living did they try? What colony had
                    tried this before? How did it work in Plymouth? What change was made in 1624?
                    Which was the oldest of all the American colonies? Which was next? What is said
                    of the growth of Plymouth colony? What happened to it in 1692?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                
                
                    
                        1. The Separatists in England.
                    
                    
                        2. The Pilgrims in Holland.
                    
                    
                        3. The voyage to America.
                    
                    
                        4. The Pilgrims at Plymouth.
                    
                    
                        5. The Pilgrims and the Indians.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                The native country of the Pilgrims was . They first settled in . In
                    the year 20 they settle at , in America. The captain in their wars was .
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                Let the pupil make a sketch-map of that part of the coast-line of New
                    England from the extreme point of Cape Cod to Plymouth. Mark Plymouth, and put
                    the date 1620 there. Leave room on the paper to extend the coast of New England
                    in both directions in future lessons. The relation of Jamestown to Plymouth
                    should be studied. Note how far apart were the first two settlements in our
                    country.
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII.
                The Coming of the Puritans.
                BEFORE the Pilgrims had become comfortably settled in their new home,
                    other English people came to various parts of the New England coast to the
                    northward of Plymouth. About 1623 a few scattering immigrants, mostly fishermen,
                    traders with the Indians, and timber-cutters, began to settle here and there
                    along the sea about Massachusetts Bay, and in what afterward came to be the
                    colonies of New Hampshire and Maine.
                
                    Settlers along the New England coast.
                
                
                    JOHN WINTHROP.
                
                
                We have seen in the preceding chapter that the Pilgrims belonged to
                    that party which had separated itself from the Church of England, and so got the
                    name of Separatists. But there were also a great many people who did not like
                    the ceremonies of the Established Church, but who would not leave it. These were
                    called Puritans, because they sought to purify the Church from what they thought
                    to be wrong. They formed a large part of the English people, and at a later
                    time, under Oliver Cromwell, they got control of England. But at the time of the
                    settlement of New England the party opposed to the Puritans was in power, and
                    the Puritans were persecuted. The little colony of Plymouth, which had now got
                    through its sufferings, showed them a way out of their troubles. Many of the
                    Puritans began to think of emigration.
                
                
                    The English Puritans.
                
                In 1628, when Plymouth had been settled almost eight years, the
                    Massachusetts Company was formed. This was a company like the Virginia Company
                    that had governed Virginia at first. The Massachusetts Company was controlled by
                    Puritans, and proposed to make settlements within the territory granted to it in
                    New England. The first party sent out by this company settle at Salem in 1628.
                    Others were sent the next year.
                
                    The Massachusetts Company sends out its first colony. 1628.
                
                But in 1630 a new and bold move was made. The Massachusetts Company
                    resolved to change the place of holding its meetings from London to its new
                    colony in America. This would the people 
                        PURTIAN GENTLEMAN.
                    
                     in the colony, as members of the
                    company, a right to govern themselves. When this proposed change became known in
                    England, many of the Puritans desired to go to America. John Winthrop, the new
                    governor, set sail for Massachusetts in 1630, with the charter and about a
                    thousand people. Winthorp and a part of his company settled at Boston, and that
                    became the capital of the colony. No colony was settled more rapidly than
                    Massachusetts. Twenty thousand people came between 1630 and 1640, though the
                    colony was troubled for a while by bitter disputes among its people about
                    matters of religion and by a war with the Pequot Indians.
                
                    PURTIAN LADY.
                
                
                    The great migration to Massachusetts. 1630.
                
                
                    John Winthrop, the principal founder of Massachusetts, was born
                        in 1588. He was chosen Governor of the Massachusetts Company, and brought
                        the charter and all the machinery of the government with him to America in
                        1630. He was almost continually governor until he died in 1649. He was a man
                        of great wisdom. When another of the leading men in the colony wrote him an
                        angry letter, he sent it back saying that "he was not willing to keep such a
                        provocation to ill-feeling by him." The writer of the letter answered, "Your
                        overcoming yourself has overcome me." When the colony had little food, and
                        winthrop's last bread was in the oven, he divided the small remainder of his
                        flour among the poor. That very day a shipload of provisions came. He
                        dressed plainly, drank little but water, and labored with his hands among
                        his servants. He counted it the great comfort of his life that he had a
                        "loving and dutiful son." This son was also named John. He was a man of
                        excellent virtues, and was the first Governor of Connecticut.
                
                Some of the Puritans in Massachusetts were dissatisfied with their
                    lands. In 1635 and 1636 these people crossed through the unbroken woods to the
                    Connecticut River, and settled the towns of Windsor, Wethersfield, and Hartford,
                    though there were already trading-posts on the Connecticut River. This was the
                    beginning 
                        Connecticut settled. 1636. New Haven Colony settled, and
                            after-ward united with Connecticut.
                    
                    
                        REV. JOHN DAVENPORT.
                    
                     of the Colony of Connecticut. Another
                    colony was planted in 1638 in the region about New Haven. It was made up of
                    Puritans under the lead of the Rev. John Davenport. In 1665 New Haven Colony was
                    united with Connecticut.
                In 1636 Roger Williams, a minister at Salem, in Massachusetts, was
                    banished from that colony on account of his peculiar views on several subjects,
                    religious and political. One of these was the doctrine that every man had a
                    right to worship God without interference by the government. Williams went to
                    the head of Narragansett Bay and established a settlement on the principle of
                    entire religious liberty. The disputes in Massachusetts resulted in other
                    settlements of banished people on Narragansett Bay, which were all at length
                    united in one colony, from which came the present State of Rhode Island.
                
                    Roger Williams lays the foundations of Rhode Island. 1636.
                
                The first settlement of New Hampshire was made at Little Harbor, near
                    Portsmouth, in 1623. The population of New Hampshire was increased by those who
                    left the Massachusetts Colony on account of the religious disputes and
                    persecutions there. Other settlers came from England. But there was much
                    confusion and dispute about land-titles and about government, in consequence of
                    which the colony was settled slowly. New Hampshire was several times joined to
                    Massachusetts, but it was finally separated from it in 1741.
                
                    New Hampshire.
                
                As early as 1607, about the time Virginia was settled, a colony was
                    planted in Maine; but this attempt failed. The first permanent settlement in
                    Maine was made at Pemaquid in 1625. Maine submitted to Massachusetts in 1652,
                    but it afterward suffered disorders 
                        Maine.
                    
                    
                        MERCHANT'S WIFE IN 1620.
                    
                     from conflicting governments until it
                    was at length annexed to Massachusetts by the charter given to that colony in
                    1692. It remained a part of Massachusetts until it was admitted to the Union as
                    a separate State, in 1820. (See Chapter XLIII.)
                The New England colonies were governed under charters, which left
                    them, in general, free interference from England. Plymouth, Massachusetts,
                    Connecticut, New Haven, and Rhode Island were the only colonies on the continent
                    that had the privilege of choosing their own governors. In 1684 the first
                    Massachusetts charter was taken away, and after that the governors of
                    Massachusetts were appointed by the king, but under a new charter given in 1692
                    the colony enjoyed the greater part of its old liberties.
                What took place along the coast to the northward of Plymouth? What
                    occupations did the first few settlers follow? To what religious party did the
                    Pilgrims belong? There were people who disliked the ceremonies of the Church of
                    England, but were unwilling to separate from it: what were they called? How
                    strong were the Puritans? Which party was in power at the time to the settlement
                    of New England? Who were suffering persecution at this time? What made the
                    Puritans think of emigrating to New England? In what year was the Massachusetts
                    Company formed? What kind of a company was this? By whom was it controlled? What
                    did it propose to do? In what year did it send out its first party? Where did
                    they settle? What new bold move was made in 1630? Why did the leaders of the
                    company wish to change their government to America? What effect did this have?
                    Who was the governor that brought over the charter? In what year did Winthrop
                    come over? How many people came at the same time? Where did Winthrop make his
                    home? What town became 
                        Government in the New England colonies.
                    
                    
                     came the capital? How many people
                    came in the next ten years? From what troubles did the colony suffer in that
                    time? What cause of dissatisfaction led to the settlement of Connecticut? In
                    what year did the people go to Connecticut from Massachusetts? What towns in
                    Connecticut did they settle first? What other colony was planted within what is
                    now Connecticut? Who was the leader of the New Haven Colony? In what year was
                    the New Haven Colony united with Connecticut? In what year was Roger Williams
                    banished from Massachusetts? For what cause was he banished? What was one of the
                    opinions held by him? Where did Williams go when he was banished? What town did
                    he establish? On what principle did he found his colony? What caused other
                    settlements in Narragansett Bay? What became of these settlements? By what were
                    the little settlements on the coast of New Hampshire increased? But what made
                    this region settle slowly? With what colony was New Hampshire sometimes united?
                    In what year was the first attempt made to plant a colony in Maine? How did the
                    real settlement begin? What caused disorders in the Maine settlements? with what
                    colony was Maine at length united? How was it at last separated from
                    Massachusetts in 1820? How were the New England colonies governed? Which
                    colonies had the privilege of choosing their own governors? How were the
                    Massachusetts governors appointed after 1684? But what is said of the liberties
                    of Massachusetts under its new charter of 1692?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        Tell about I. The settlers along the coast.
                    
                    
                        II. The coming of the Puritans.
                        
                            
                                1. The Puritans in England.
                            
                            
                                2. The Massachusetts Company.
                            
                            
                                3. The settlement of Massachusetts.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Other New England colonies.
                    
                    
                        1. The settlement of Connecticut and New Haven.
                    
                    
                        2. The settlement of Rhode Island.
                    
                    
                        3. The development of Maine and New Hampshire.
                    
                    
                        IV. The liberties of New England.
                    
                
                A good subject will be "The Founding of New England," as told in this
                    and the preceding chapter.
                
                    Composition.
                
                Let the pupil extend his sketch-map used in the preceding lesson so
                    as to represent the whole coast of New England, then mark the sites and dates
                    given in the little map on the preceding page. If preferred, the map may be
                    drawn on the blackboard.
                
                    Geography.
                
                On the Pilgrims and Puritans, besides the general histories before
                    referred to, Palfrey's "History of New England," a large work of great learning.
                    Drake's "The Making of New England," interesting to children.
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX.
                The Coming of the Dutch.
                WHILE Captain John Smith was in Virginia (see Chapter IV), he had a
                    notion that there was a passage into the Pacific Ocean somewhere to the north of
                    the Virginia Colony. He may have got this opinion from some old maps, or from
                    misunderstanding something that the Indians told him while he was exploring the
                    Chesapeake Bay. He sent to his old friend Henry Hudson, in England, a letter and
                    a map, which showed a way to go by sea into the Pacific Ocean, a little to the
                    north of Virginia.
                
                    Captain John Smith sends a map to Hudson.
                
                
                    THE HALF-MOON IN HUDSON RIVER.
                
                Henry Hudson was an Englishman already known as a bold explorer. In
                    1609, soon after getting John Smith's letter and map, Hudson went to Holland and
                    hired himself to the Dutch East India Company. This company sent him out with a
                    little yacht, called the Half-Moon, manned by twenty sailors, to find a passage
                    to China, by going around the north coast of Europe. But he found the sea in
                    that direction so full of ice that he was obliged to give up the attempt to get
                    to China in that way. So, remembering John Smith's map, he set sail for America.
                
                    Hudson seeks a new route to China.
                
                Hudson sailed as far to the south as the entrance to the Chesapeake,
                    and then explored the coast to the northward. He went into Delaware Bay, and
                    afterward into New York Harbor. In hope of finding a way to the 
                        Hudson explores Hudson River.
                    
                     East Indies, he kept on up the river,
                    which we now call Hudson River, for eleven days. But when he had gone nearly as
                    far as to the place where Albany is now, Hudson became satisfied that the road
                    to China did not lie there, and so he sailed down and returned to Europe.
                
                    Henry Hudson. The time of Hudson's birth is not known. Nor is
                        anything known of the early voyages by which he became famous. In 1607, in
                        the employ of an English company, he undertook to find the much-desired
                        route to China by sailing straight across the north pole. He failed, of
                        course, though he got farther north than any other voyager had done. In the
                        next year, 1608, for the same company, he tried to find a passage to the
                        East Indies by sailing to the northeast. He did not succeed, but he sets
                        down in his journal that some of his company saw one day a mermaid, with a
                        body like a woman and a tail like a porpoise. Intelligent people believed in
                        such monsters in that day. In the next year Holland and France both tried to
                        secure Hudson's services. It is told in the text how, in this voyage in the
                        Half-Moon, he discovered the great river of New York for the Dutch. in the
                        year following he tried to find a way to China by the northwest, but, while
                        sailing in what is now called Hudson Bay, part of his crew rose against him,
                        and, putting Hudson and some of his men into an open boat, sailed away,
                        leaving them to perish.
                
                Though Hudson was an Englishman, he made this voyage for the Dutch,
                    and the very next year the Dutch merchants began a fur-trade with the Indians on
                    this river that Hudson had discovered. In the year that followed (1611) they
                    explored the coast northeastward beyond Boston Harbor, and to the south-ward
                    they sailed into the Delaware River, claiming all this country, which was then
                    without any inhabitants but Indians. They called this territory New Netherland.
                    Netherland is another name for what we call Holland.
                
                    The Dutch establish a fur-trade on Hudson River.
                
                
                    DUTCH WOMEN OF OLD TIMES.
                
                The Dutch had built a trading-post, called a "fort," at what is now
                    Albany, and perhaps others like it elsewhere, but they did not send out a colony
                    until 1623. Then two principal settlements were made, the one at Albany, the
                    other at Wallabout, now part of Brooklyn. But the island of Manhattan, on which
                    New York now 
                        The Dutch plant a colony in New Netherland.
                    
                     stands, had been the center of their
                    trade, and it soon became the little capital of the colony. The town which grew
                    about the fort that stood at the south end of what is now New York city, was
                    called by the Dutch New Amsterdam, after the principal city of Holland, their
                    own country.
                The Dutch also had settlements on the Connecticut River and on the
                    Delaware River. But on the Connecticut River they got into trouble with the
                    English settlers, who claimed the whole of that country. On the Delaware River
                    the Dutch had trouble with some Swedes, who had planted a colony there in 1638.
                    This colony the Swedes called New Netherland, and as the English called their
                    northern colonies New England, while the French named their settlements in
                    Canada New France. After a great deal of quarreling between the Swedes and
                    Dutch, the Dutch governor, Peter Stuyvesant, in 1655, mustered a little fleet
                    with six or seven hundred men, and, sailing to the Delaware River, captured New
                    Sweden.
                
                    Planting of New Sweden, and its conquest by the Dutch.
                
                
                    DUTCH COUNTRY PEOPLE OF OLD TIMES.
                
                But the English at this time claimed that all the territory between
                    Virginia and New England belonged to England. They said that all that coast had
                    been discovered by Cabot for Henry VII more than a century and a half before In
                    1664, in time of peace, four English ships appeared in the harbor of New
                    Amsterdam and demanded its surrender. Stout old Peter Stuyvesant, the lame
                    governor who had ruled in the Dutch colonies for many years, resolved to fight.
                
                
                    The English conquer New Netherland.
                
                
                But the city was weak and without fortifications, and the people,
                    seeing the uselessness of contending against the ships, persuaded Stuyvesant to
                    surrender. The name New Amsterdam was immediately changed to New York, the whole
                    province having been granted to the Duke of York.
                At the time of the surrender New York city had but fifteen hundred
                    people, most of them speaking the Dutch language. To-day there are nearly a
                    thousand times as many people in New York city. Many thousands of the people of
                    New York and many in other States have descended from the first Dutch settlers
                    and bear the old Dutch names. The Dutch settlers were generally industrious,
                    frugal, and religious.
                
                    New Amsterdam becomes New York.
                
                
                    STREET IN NEW AMSTERDAM.
                
                What notion about a passage into the Pacific Ocean did Captain John
                    Smith have while he was in Virginia? How may he have got this opinion about a
                    water-way to the north of Jamestown? To whom did he send word about this? Where
                    was Henry Hudson when Captain Smith sent 
                        Questions for Study.
                    
                     him this letter and map? Who was
                    Hudson? Where did he go after he got Smith's letter? In what year did he hire
                    himself to the Dutch East India Company? What did they wish him to do? What kind
                    of a ship did the company give him? What was her name? How many seamen did she
                    have? How did Hudson first try to sail his ship to China? What stopped him? What
                    led him to go to America at this time? How far south on the American coast did
                    Hudson go? What bay to the north of the mouth of the Chesapeake did he explore?
                    After leaving Delaware Bay, into what harbor did he sail? Up what river did he
                    sail? What did he hope to find by sailing up the Hudson River? How long was he
                    in going up this river? How far up the Hudson River did he go? At the end of
                    eleven days what what did he think of the chance of getting to China by this
                    route? When he found that there was no way to sail through America at that
                    place, what did he do? For whom did Hudson make this voyage? What advantage did
                    the Dutch take of his discoveries? How far to the northeast did they explore in
                    1611? Were there any settlements in New England in that year? (In what year was
                    the first settlement in New England made by the Pilgrims? See page 35.) How far
                    to the south did the Dutch explore? How much country did they claim? What did
                    they call this new country? Why did they call it New Netherland? In what year
                    did the Dutch send out a colony? (How long was this after the settlement of
                    Virginia? Subtract 1607 from 1623. How long was this Dutch settlement after the
                    settlement of Plymouth by the Pilgrims? Subtract 1620 from 1623. How long was
                    the settlement of Salem by the Massachusetts Company after the beginning of the
                    Dutch settlement? Subtract 1623 from 1628. How long was the Dutch settlement
                    before the beginning of Boston? Subtract 1623 from 1630.) Where were the two
                    principal settlements of the Dutch located at first? Where was their principal
                    trading-post? What was the village that grew about the fort on. Manhattan Island
                    called? Why was it called New Amsterdam? Where else did the Dutch have
                    settlements? With whom did they have trouble on the Connecticut River? Who gave
                    them trouble on the Delaware River? In what year was the Swedish colony settled
                    on the Delaware? What was it called? What Dutch governor conquered New Sweden?
                    In what year? But who claimed the whole territory of New Netherland at this
                    time? On what ground? What happened at New Amsterdam in 1664? When the English
                    ships demanded the surrender of the town, how did the Dutch governor feel? Who
                    was this Dutch governor? What led Stuyvesant to surrender after a while? When
                    New Amsterdam became English, what was it called? How many people were there in
                    New York when the English took it? About how many times as many are  there now? What language did the most
                    of the people speak when the English took it? What kind of people were they?
                    What is said of the descendants of the Dutch in New York to-day?
                Tell about 
                        
                            1. John Smith and his notion of a way to the Pacific
                                Ocean.
                        
                        
                            2. Henry Hudson's discoveries in 1609.
                        
                        
                            3. The Dutch settlement in 1623.
                        
                        
                            4. Conquest of New Sweden in 1655.
                        
                        
                            5. Conquest of New Netherland by the English in 1664.
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Order of events:
                Virginia, 1607.
                Hudson's voyage, 1609.
                Plymouth Pilgrims, 1620.
                Dutch settlement, 1623.
                Massachusetts, 1628.
                Swedish settlement, 1638.
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                Let the pupil make a sketch-map (or have one drawn on the blackboard)
                    of the coast from the Connecticut River to the Delaware. Mark the sites of
                    Brooklyn and Albany, with the date 1623. It will be enough to write "Dutch
                    settlement" and "New Sweden, 1638," in the region of the Delaware.
                
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER X.
                The Settlement of Maryland and the Carolinas.
                By the second charter given for planting the "First colony of
                    Virginia," as it was called, its breadth was cut down to four hundred miles
                    along the sea-coast. Virginia had formerly included all that the English claimed
                    in America. Part of the four hundred miles was occupied by the Dutch in New
                    Jersey and Delaware. And the territory of Virginia was, at length, further cut
                    down by the taking of another part of it to form Maryland for Lord Baltimore.
                
                    How Virginia was cut down.
                
                
                    FIRST LORD BALTIMORE.
                
                
                George Calvert, afterward Lord Baltimore, was a Secretary of State to
                    James I. In 1621 he planted a colony in Newfoundland, which he called Avalon. In
                    1627 he went to his colony in Newfoundland, but the climate was so cold that in
                    1629 he went to Virginia. Before going to Virginia he wrote to the king, begging
                    for territory to plant a colony there. Lord Baltimore had become a Catholics at
                    a time when there were severe laws in England against Catholics. Even in the
                    colonies Catholics were not allowed; and the Virginians took advantage of the
                    orders given them from England, and insisted that he must take an oath declaring
                    that the king was the head of the Church. As a Catholic, he could not do this,
                    and the Virginians bade his leave the colony.
                
                    Lord Baltimore's first colony fails.
                
                Lord Baltimore returned to England, and got the king, Charles I, to
                    give him a slice of Virginia north of the Potomac. This country King Charles
                    named Maryland, in honor of the queen, his wife. For this Baltimore was to pay
                    to the king two Indian arrows every year. But, before Lord Baltimore could send
                    a colony, he died.
                
                    Maryland granted to Lord Baltimore.
                
                
                    CHARLES I.
                
                The territory was then granted to Lord Baltimore's son, the second
                    Lord Baltimore. He was given all the powers of a monarch. The first settlers
                    were sent out in 1633, and reached Maryland in 1634. This company was composed
                    of twenty gentlemen and three hundred laboring-men, and the first governor was
                    Leonard Calvert, the second Lord Baltimore's brother. Roman Catholic priests
                    were with 
                        Maryland planted by the second Lord Baltimore.
                    
                    
                        SECOND LORD BALTIMORE.
                    
                     them, and at their landing they set
                    up a cross. But there were also a good many Protestants in the party, and
                    Baltimore had resolved from the beginning that there should be no persecution of
                    any Christians on account of religion in his new province. In almost every
                    country in the world at that time the established religion, of whatever sort it
                    might be, was enforced by law.
                The colonists came in two ships called the Ark and the Dove; they
                    settled first at a place which they called St. Mary's on the St. Mary's River,
                    not far from the Potomac. They bought from the Indians living on the place their
                    village and corn-ground, and for the rest of that season they lived in half of
                    the village with the Indians. The colony had many troubles and several 
                        Early years of Maryland.
                    
                    
                     little civil wars in its first years.
                    These mostly grew out of the religious differences of the people. But after a
                    while Maryland prospered and grew rich by raising to bacco.
                After the settlement of New England by Puritans, and Maryland by
                    Catholics, there was a period of about thirty years in which no new colonies
                    were planted. In this period occurred the Great Rebellion in England, in which
                    Charles I was beheaded, and his son Charles II was kept out of England by the
                    Puritans under Oliver Cromwell. But, after Cromwell death, Charles II was
                    brought back to the throne of England. This is known as the Restoration. It took
                    place in 1660.
                
                    No new colonies for thirty years.
                
                After the Restoration there was a new interest in colonies. New York
                    was taken from the Dutch, and new colonies were planned. King Charles II was a
                    very thoughtless, self-indulgent monarch, who freely granted great tracts of
                    land in America to several of his favorites. To some of his ourtiers he gave, in
                    1663, a large territory cut off from Virginia on the south, which had been known
                    before this time as Carolana, but was now called Carolina, from Carolus, the
                    Latin form of King Charles's name. This territory included what we call North
                    and South Carolina. Those to whom this territory was granted were called "The
                    Lords Proprietors of Carolina." There were eight of them.
                
                    Carolina granted to eight proprietors.
                
                
                    CHARLES II.
                
                In the northeastern corner of this territory, on the Chowan River, a
                    settlement had been made by people from Virginia, under the lead of a minister
                    named Roger Green, in 1653. This was ten years before the country was granted to
                    these lords proprietors, and the land 
                        Beginning of settlements in North Carolina in 1653.
                    
                     belonged to Virginia when they
                    settled there. A settlement was made at Port Royal, in South Carolina, in 1670,
                    but the people afterward moved to where the city of Charleston now stands. The
                    foundation of this city was laid in 1680. A large number of Huguenots, or French
                    Protestants, settled in South Carolina about this time.
                The lords-proprietors tried to force on the little settlements in the
                    woods a constitution which they had prepared. This constitution provided for
                    three orders of nobility, to be called palatines [pal-a-teens'], landgraves, and
                    caciques [cas-seeks']. But this system of government worked so badly that it
                    was, after a while, given up.
                
                    Failure of the constitution prepared for Carolina.
                
                
                    HUDGE NOT MERCHANT'S WIFE.
                
                The Carolina colonies grew slowly. But after the introduction of
                    rice-culture, in 1696, South Carolina became prosperous. The proprietors, living
                    in England, conducted the government of the colonies in a selfish spirit, and
                    the people disliked their management. In 1719 the South Carolina people rose in
                    rebellion and threw off the yoke of the lords proprietors. In 1729 the king
                    bought out the interest of the proprietors, and after that the governors were
                    appointed by the king. They had already an Assembly elected by the people to
                    pass laws.
                
                    Growth of South Carolina, and its change of government.
                
                How large was the territory of Virginia at first? What part of this
                    territory was taken by the Dutch? How was the territory of Virginia next cut
                    down? Who was George Calvert? Where did he plant his first colony? What did he
                    call it? What was George Calvert called after he had been made a lord? What made
                    Lord Baltimore give up the colony of Avalon in Newfoundland? In what year did he
                    go to Virginia? What did he write to the king before he went there?
                What was Lord Baltimore's religion? How were Catholics treated in
                    England at that time? Were they allowed to live in the colonies? What oath did
                    the Virginians ask Baltimore to take? Why could he not 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                        HUGUENOT MERCHANT.
                    
                     take it? When he refused, what did
                    they do? When Lord Baltimore got back to England what did he get from the king?
                    What name did the king give to Baltimore's new province? In whose honor was it
                    named? What payment did Lord Baltimore have to make to the king for Maryland?
                    What happened to the first Lord Baltimore? To whom did the province go then?
                    What powers were given to Lord Baltimore and his successors? In what year did
                    the first colony reach Maryland? Of what sort of men was it composed? (Who are
                    most important in settling a new colony, gentlemen of laboring-men?) Who was
                    governor of the first colony? What ministers of religion were with them? What
                    did they set up at their first landing? Were all the people who came Catholics?
                    What plan did Lord Baltimore have about persecution for religion? Was religious
                    liberty common at that time? Do you remember the names of the two ships that
                    brought over the Maryland people? (Can you think why they were so named?) Where
                    did the Maryland people settle? How did they get their land? What was the cause
                    of most of the disturbances in the early years of the Maryland colony? What crop
                    did the Maryland colonists raise? After the beginning of New England by the
                    Puritans, and of Maryland by the Catholics, there was a period in which no new
                    colonies were planted: how long was this period? What took place in England
                    during this time? What king was beheaded? Who was the leader of the Puritans in
                    this rebellion? What king was kept out of England while Cromwell lived? In what
                    year was Charles II brought back? What was this bringing back of the king
                    called? After the Restoration what plans about the colonies were set on foot?
                    What kind of a king was Charles II? What tract of land did be give to certain
                    courtiers? What had this southern territory been called before this time? What
                    was it now called? Which two of our States were included in this Carolina grant?
                    What were those to whom this grant was made called? How many lords-proprietors
                    of Carolina were there?
                Were there any people living in Carolina when this gift was made?
                    Where were they settle? In what year did they settle on the Chowan River? Who
                    was their leader? Where was a settlement made in 1670? Where did these people
                    afterward remove to? In what year was Charleston begun? who tried to arrange a
                    constitution for the Carolina settlements? How many orders of nobility did this
                    provide for? What were to be their titles? Why was this constitution given up?
                    Did the Carolina settlements grow rapidly at first? What grain was introduced in
                    1696?
                
                
                What was the effect of rice-culture in South Carolina? In what spirit
                    did the proprietors conduct their government? In what year did South Carolina
                    overthrow the government of the proprietors? What took place in 1729? How were
                    the Carolina colonies governed after that period?
                
                
                    
                        Part I: Maryland. Tell about
                        
                            
                                1. The first Lord Baltimore and his colony in
                                    Newfoundland.
                            
                            
                                2. The second Lord Baltimore and his grant.
                            
                            
                                3. The coming of the colony.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Also: a. What king made the grant?
                            
                            
                                b. What was the religion of the Baltimores?
                            
                            
                                c. What laws did they make about religion?
                            
                            
                                d. Why was the colony called Maryland?
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        Part II: The Caroloinas. Tell about
                        
                            
                                1. The lords-proprietors.
                            
                            
                                2. The first settlement of North Carolina.
                            
                            
                                3. The first settlement of South Carolina.
                            
                            
                                4. The constitution.
                            
                            
                                5. The change of government.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Also: a. What king granted Carolina?
                            
                            
                                b. Why was it called Carolina?
                            
                            
                                c. What three orders of nobility were
                                established?
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                George Calvert, afterward Lord , planted his first colony, called
                    Avalon, in , Finding the climate too cold, he went to , in 1629. He got the king
                    to give him a part of , north of the river. In the year he sent a colony to this
                    province, which he called , in honor of the , In religion Lord Baltimore was a .
                
                    Skeleton summary of Part I.
                
                The king gave Carolina to proprietors in . But a settlement had been
                    made in North Carolina, in , under the lead of . Another settlement was made at
                    , in South Carolina, in 1670, but these people afterward remove and settled the
                    city of , in South Carolina. This city was begun in . The cultivation of , which
                    was introduced in , made South Carolina prosperous.
                
                    Skeleton summary of Part II.
                
                The sketch-map prepared for the chapters on the settlement of
                    Virginia may be used. Extend the coast-lines, in not previously drawn, to
                    include Maryland. Enter the date 1634 at St. Mary's Then put the initial A where
                    Annapolis now stands, and B where Baltimore is, in order to fix relative
                    positions. Draw a new sketch-map of the coast of North and South Carolina and
                    Georgia. At Chowan River, IN Albemarle Sound, enter the date 1653, At Port
                    Royal, S.C., 1670. At Charleston, 1680. Then draw a line through the figures
                    1670, at Port Royal, to how that this settlement was given up. These maps may be
                    made on the blackboard.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XI.
                The Coming of the Quakers and Others to the
                    Jerseys and Pennsylvania.
                BEFORE the Dutch colony of New Netherland was conquered by the
                    English, in 1664, it was given by Charles II to his brother, the Duke of York,
                    who afterward became King of England as James II. James kept that portion of it
                    that is now called New York to himself. What we call New Jersey he gave to Lord
                    John Berkeley and Sir George Carteret, who after a few years, sold their
                    interest to others. The colony already contained several settlements of Dutch
                    and Swedes. In 1674 New Jersey was divided into East Jersey and West Jersey.
                
                    Conquest of New Jersey, and its division.
                
                
                    SCOTCH WOMAN.
                
                It was a time of religious persecution. Many people emigrated to the
                    colonies in order to get a chance to be religious in their own way, and the
                    proprietors of the New Jersey colonies promised to all who came liberty to
                    worship in their own way. The people of Scotland, who were Presbyterians,
                    suffered horribly from persecutions after the restoration of Charles II, and
                    East Jersey received many Scotch emigrants, driven out of heir own country by
                    the cruelty of the government. Some people from New England also moved into East
                    Jersey.
                
                    Persecuted people form Scotland come to New Jersey.
                
                The religious sect most severely persecuted in England after the
                    restoration of the king was the Society of Friends, whose members are sometimes
                    called Quakers. Some of these came to East Jersey. West Jersey was bought by
                    certain leading Friends, and a 
                        SCOTCHMAN.
                    
                     great many members of that society
                    flocked to this province, where they established a popular form of government.
                
                    Quakers come to East and West Jersey.
                
                Just across the Delaware River from West Jersey was a territory not
                    then occupied except by a few Swedes, who had come over long before to the old
                    colony of New Sweden. Among those who had to do with the management of the West
                    Jersey colony was a famous Quaker minister named William Penn. His father had
                    been a great sea-commander, and William Penn had a claim against the King of
                    England for a considerable sum of money due to his father. The king was in debt,
                    and found it hard to pay what he owed. William Penn therefore persuaded Charles
                    II to settle the debt by granting him a territory on the west side of the river
                    Dela 
                        WILLIAM PENN.
                    
                    
                        Pennsylvania granted to William Penn.
                    
                    
                        William Penn was born in London in 1644, so that he was
                            thirty-seven years old when Pennsylvania was settled. he was the on of
                            Admiral William Penn, who was celebrated for the part he took in the
                            wars between the English and Dutch. Penn first came under the influence
                            of the Friends or Quakers while he was a student at Oxford, and he was
                            expelled from the university with others, for the resistance they made
                            to certain religious ceremonies introduced at that time. His father sent
                            his to Paris, and he became an accomplished man of the world. He
                            afterward became a Friend, which so mortified his gather that the
                            admiral turned him out of his house, but later he became reconciled to
                            him. Penn was repeatedly imprisoned, and he boldly asserted in the
                            English courts the great principle of religious liberty. He traveled
                            into Wales, Ireland, Holland, and Germany, in his preaching journeys,
                            and many of his acquaintances in those countries afterward came to
                            Pennsylvania. Though Penn would never take off his hat in the presence
                            of the king, he had considerable influence at court, which he used to
                            lessen the sufferings of the Quakers and others. Penn died in 1718.
                    
                     ware. This the king called
                    Pennsylvania, which means something like Penn's Forest. The name was given in
                    honor of Penn's father, the admiral.
                What in now the State of Delaware was also put under Penn's
                    government by the Duke of York. Everything was done with ceremony in those days.
                    When Penn got to Newcastle, in Delaware, its government was transferred to him
                    in the following way: The key to the fort at Newcastle was delivered to him.
                    With this he locked himself into the fort and then let himself out in sign that
                    the government was his. To show that the land with the trees on it belonged to
                    him, a piece of sod with a twig in it was given to him. Then a porringer filled
                    with water from the river was given to him, that he might be lord of the rivers
                    a well as of the land.
                
                    Delaware delivered to Penn.
                
                Penn sent his first emigrants to Pennsylvania in 1681. Philadelphia,
                    where they landed, was yet a woods, and the people had to dig holes in the
                    river-banks to live in through the winter. Nearly thirty vessels came to the new
                    colony during the first year.
                
                    Penn settles Pennsylvania.
                
                Although Pennsylvania was the last colony settled except Georgia, it
                    soon became one of the most populous and one of the richest. Before the
                    Revolution, Philadelphia had become the largest town in the thirteen colonies.
                    This was chiefly owing to the very free government that William Penn founded in
                    his colony. Not only English, but Welsh and Irish people, and many thousands of
                    industrious Germans, came to Pennsylvania. People were also attracted by the
                    care that Penn took to maintain friendly relations with the Indians, and to
                    satisfy them for their lands. Another thing which drew people both to
                    Pennsylvania and New Jersey was the fact 
                        Rapid growth of Pennsylvania.
                    
                     that the land was not taken up in
                    large bodies, as it was in New York and Virginia, for instance. In Pennsylvania
                    and New Jersey th poor man could get a farm of his own.
                By the sale and division of shares, the proprietaries of both East
                    and West Jersey became too numerous to manage their governments well, and at
                    length disorders arose which they were not able to suppress. In 1702 the
                    government of both provinces was transferred to Queen Anne, and East and West
                    Jersey were again united into the one province of New Jersey. But even to this
                    day, in common speech, one sometimes hears the State of New Jersey spoken of as
                    " The Jerseys" by people who do not know that two hundred years ago there were
                    two colonies of that name. Pennsylvania remained in the hands of the Penn
                    family, who appointed its governors till the American Revolution.
                
                    The two Jerseys united.
                
                
                    TREATY-BELT GIVEN BY THE INDIANS TO PENN.
                
                To whom was the Dutch colony of New Netherland given before it was
                    conquered by the English? In what year was it conquered? How was the Duke of
                    York related to King Charles II? What part of New Netherland did the Duke of
                    York keep for himself? Having retained New York what part of his province did he
                    give to Berkeley and Carteret? Were there any settlements in New Jersey at this
                    time? How did the Dutch and Swedes come to be there before the English? What did
                    Berkeley and Carteret do with their interest in New Jersey? In what year was New
                    Jersey divided? When it was divided in 1674, what were the two parts called?
                    What caused many people to come to the colonies at this time? What promise did
                    the proprietors of East and West Jersey make to those who should settle in their
                    colonies? What took place in Scotland after the Restoration? In which of the
                    Jersey 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     colonies did many of the persecuted
                    Scotch settle? From what part of America did settlers emigrate to East Jersey?
                    What religious sect was most severely persecuted at this time? Where did some of
                    these come to? Who bought West Jersey? When Wet Jersey had come into the control
                    of some leading members of the Society of Friends, what took place? What kind of
                    a government did the Quakers establish in West Jersey? What is said of the
                    country on the other side of the Delaware River from West Jersey? When had the
                    few Swedes come to this place? What famous member of the Society of Friends had
                    a hand in the management of West Jersey? Whose son was William Penn? What claim
                    did Penn have against the king? What did Charles II give to William Penn instead
                    of the money due to him? In what year was this territory west of the Delaware
                    given to penn? What did the king name the new province? What does Pennsylvania
                    mean? In whose honor was it named? Who put the country which we now call
                    Delaware under Penn's government? Tell by what ceremony Delaware was delivered
                    to Penn. In what year did William Penn send out his first settlers? In what kind
                    of houses did the settlers of Philadelphia live at first? How many vessels came
                    to the colony the first year? What is said of the growth of Pennsylvania? What
                    was the largest town in the thirteen colonies some years before the Revolution?
                    What was there about the government of Pennsylvania that attracted people? What
                    people beside English came to Pennsylvania? What was there in the relation of
                    Pennsylvania with the Indians that made people like to live there? What about
                    the way the land was taken up in Pennsylvania and New Jersey? How did East and
                    West Jersey come to be managed by many proprietors? What happened from this?
                    When the disorders became so great that the proprietors could not put them down,
                    what did they do? In what year was New Jersey transferred to the queen? Who was
                    Queen of England in 1702? Did East and West Jersey remain apart? What phrase do
                    we sometimes hear that reminds us of the existence of two Jerseys two hundred
                    years ago? Until what period did the Penn family govern Pennsylvania?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        Tell about
                    
                    
                        1. The conquest of New Jersey and its division.
                    
                    
                        2. The settlement of East Jersey by Scotch, New-Englanders,
                            and Friends.
                    
                    
                        3. The coming of Friends to West Jersey.
                    
                    
                        4. William Penn and his colony.
                    
                    
                        5. The reunion of New Jersey.
                    
                
                
                New Netherland was taken from the in 1664. The part of it now called
                    was given by the Duke of to Lord John and sir Gorge . Berkeley and Carteret
                    afterward sold their shares to others, and New Jersey was divided into two
                    colonies, called . Many presecuted Presbytrians from settled in East Jersey.
                    West Jersey was settled mostly by members of the Society of , often called .
                    Among those who managed West Jersey was , the son of Admiral Penn. To him the
                    king gave a province called . This province was mostly settle by . Besides
                    English settlers, there were , and , and . Its chief city, called , was first
                    settled in .
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                On the sketch -map of the middle colonies let a line be drawn, as in
                    the subjoined map, to mark the division between East and West Jersey. Mark the
                    site of New Castle, in Delaware. Mark the site of Philadelphia, and put in the
                    date, 1681.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XII.
                The Settlement of Georgia, and the Coming of
                    the Germans, Irish, and French.
                PENN'S settlement at Philadelphia was made, as we have seen, in 1681.
                    This was seventy-four years after the settlement of Jamestown. In seventy-four
                    years, which in less than a long lifetime, all the colonies were begun except
                    one. But after the settlement of Pennsylvania there passed fifty-one year more
                    before another colony was begun. As the borders of Carolina were supposed to
                    reach to the Spanish territory in Florida and as New England touched the French
                    territory in Canada, there appeared to be no room for any more colonies, until
                    it was suggested to General Oglethorpe that a slice might be taken off the south
                    side of South Carolina, and a new colony be wedged in between Carolina and the
                    Spanish colony in Florida.
                
                
                    Georgia projected.
                
                
                General Oglethorpe was a very benevolent man, but much given to
                    impossible projects of different sorst. He did not propose that the new colony
                    of Georgia should be a source of profit to anybody. He put on its seal a motto
                    in Latin, which meant "Not for ourselves, but for others," with a device of
                    silk-worms spinning. He wanted to provide a home for ruined debtors, and a place
                    of refuge for persecuted Protestants from other countries. He also expected to
                    make Georgia a military barrier against the encroachments of the Spaniards from
                    Florida, who laid claim to all of South Carolina. Besides this, he proposed to
                    raise silk-worms in Georgia, so that the English would not need to pay money to
                    the Italians for their silk. He also resolved to keep out all slaves, and to
                    forbid th bringing in of rum, that the people might not be idle or intemperate.
                    Many 
                        General Ogelthorpe's plans for Georgia.
                    
                    
                        A GEORGIA ROAD.
                    
                     thousands of pounds were given by
                    benevolent people to help on this good work. Parliament also voted a donation to
                    Georgia.
                
                    James Edward Ogethorpe was born in London in 1688. He was in the
                        war of the Austrians against the Turks in 1716, and held a command under
                        Prince Eugene in the brilliant and desperate campaign of 1717, which ended
                        in the surrender of Belgrade. He returned to England in 1722, and served in
                        Parliament for thirty-two years afterward. He was opposed to imprisonment
                        for debt, and did much to improve the condition of poor debtors. He was also
                        interested in the efforts then made to convert the black slaves in the
                        colonies. In planting Georgia, his views were most benevolent, but the
                        broken-down debtors that he took over at first were not the kind of men to
                        begin a new state with. Oglethorpe was over ninety-six years old when he
                        died.
                
                In 1732 Oglethorpe took out his first company of a hundred and
                    sixteen people, with whom he began the town of Savannah. Many others were added,
                    among whom were a regiment of Scotch Highlanders, some Hebrews, and some
                    persecuted Germans. Ogleghorpe bore hardship; with the rest, and by brilliant
                    management defeated the spaniards when they attacked his colony.
                
                    First settlement of Georgia at Savannah.
                
                
                    PIPER TO A HIGHLAND REGIMENT.
                
                But the people, after a while, became dissatisfied. They were not
                    allowed any hand in making their own laws. No man, unless he brought white
                    servants, was permitted to own more than fifty acres of land, and this land he
                    could not sell or rent or divide among his children. His oldest son took it at
                    his death; if he had no son, it went back to the trustees of the colony. It was
                    thought that by this means the evils of wealth and poverty would be prevented.
                    But, like all such attempts, this proved a failure, because the people felt that
                    such laws interfered with their just liberties, and took away all inducements to
                    the improvement of their property.
                
                    Oglethorpe's plans cause dissatisfaction.
                
                The complaints of the settlers became very bitter, and many of them
                    left the colony. In 1752, twenty years after the beginning of the settlement,
                    the trustees surrendered 
                        The government transferred to the king.
                    
                     rendered the government to the king.
                    After that, Georgia was not different from the other colonies. One might own as
                    much land as one could get, and sell or lease it at one's pleasure. Rum also
                    came in, which certainly was no advantage. Slaves were bought, and rice and
                    indigo plantations, like those of South Carolina, were established.
                The Germans that came to Georgia were not by any means the first of
                    these industrious people in the English colonies in America. There were many
                    little sects in Germany at that time, and these suffered much persecution, from
                    which they were glad to flee. The laws of Pennsylvania promised them freedom.
                    Some of these sects were opposed to war, and their members emigrated to Penn's
                    colony, where military service was not required, because the Society of Friends
                    was also opposed to war. The tide of German emigration became greater and
                    greater after this; thousands of Germans coming to Pennsylvania to escape the
                    miseries brought on them by persecution and the wars which desolated their
                    country.
                
                    The comig of the Germans.
                
                
                    GERMAN COUNTRY MAN OF THET TIME.
                
                In three years, during the reign of Queen Anne there came to England
                    thirteen thousand poor people from that part of Germany called the Palatinate.
                    These people were called Palatines; they were seeking to be sent to America.
                    Some of these were dispatched to Virginia some to the Carolinas, and some to
                    Maryland. About four thousand were sent to New York to make tar and pitch. So
                    wretchedly were they cared for that seventeen hundred of the four thousand died
                    at sea or soon after landing. The rest were settled on the Hudson River, where
                    the descedants of some of them are to-day. Some went to the wilderness farther
                    west. They were 
                        The arrival of the Palastine Germans.
                    
                    
                        GERMAN COUNTRY WOMEN OF THAT TIME
                    
                     badly treated in New York, and only
                    allowed ten acres of land apiece. Three hundred of them, hearing that Germans
                    were well received in Pennsylvania, made a bold push through the backwoods of
                    New York, down the rivers that flowed into Pennyslvania. From that time Germans
                    avoided New York, and thronged more than ever into Pennsylvania.
                
                    IRISH MAN OF THAT TIME.
                
                The Irish that came before the Revolution were mostly Presbyterians
                    in belief. They had been persecuted in order to force them into the Church of
                    England. Some of them came to New England about 1718, of potatoes. There was not
                    a colony to which they did not go, but the greatest tide of Irish immigration
                    poured into Pennsylvannia. Five thousand Irish immigrants arrived in the city of
                    Philadelphia in the year 1729. Many of them were bold and enterprising pioneers,
                    opening the way in to unknown regions, and showing great courage with the
                    Indians.
                
                    Irish immigrants to the colonies.
                
                
                    The migration to the southward.
                
                Pennsylvania filled up with great rapidity, and, when the later
                    Indian wars laid waste its frontiers, many of the German and Irish settlers
                    moved southward into the mountain-valleys of Virginia. Then, following the lines
                    of open prairies and Indian trails, this stream of people went onward into the
                    Carilonas. The Irish, indeed, and their children born in America, pushed
                    southward until they had filled whole counties in North and South Carolina. They
                    also pushed over the Alleghanies into the Western countrty.
                
                    IRISH WOMAN OF THAT TIME.
                
                
                    The coming of the Huguenots.
                
                The Huguenots, or French Protestants, rendered unhappy by the civil
                    wars and persecutions of the time, came to the colonies in large numbers. They
                    settled in  almost every colony, but
                    more largely in South Carolina than elsewhere.
                Notwithstanding the multitudes of Germans, Irish, French, and Scotch
                    that came to the colonies, those who came from England formed much the largest
                    part of every colony.
                
                    The English the most numerous.
                
                From the beginning of the first colony at Jamestown in 1607 to the
                    settlement of Pennsylvania in 1681 was how many years? [Subtract 1607 from
                    1681.] Was Pennsylvania the last colony? From the beginning of Pennsylvaniathe
                    next to the last colonyto the beginning of Georgia, the last colony, was how
                    many years? [Subtract 1681 from 1732.] What nation had a colony in Florida? What
                    nation had a colony in Canada? Did the English colonies, as marked out, occupy
                    all the space between? Where did General Oglethorpe think of putting in a new
                    colony?
                
                    FRENCH COUNTRY MAN OF THAT DAY.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What kind of a men was Oglethorpe? Did he purpose to make a profit
                    out of the new colony of Georgia? What motto did he put on the seal of the
                    colony? What device? What two classes of people did Oglethorpe expect to benefit
                    by founding this colony? What military purpose was the colony to serve? What did
                    he purpose to accomplish with silkworms in Georgia? What did he resolve
                    concerning slaves? What donations did the new colony receive? In what year did
                    General Oglethorpe take out his first company? How many people were there in it?
                    Where did he settle these people? Among others who came afterward, what kind of
                    people are mentioned? What is said of Oglethorpe's endurance of hardships? With
                    what result did he fight with the Spaniards? Were the people contested? What
                    share did they have in making their own laws? How much land was each man allowed
                    to own? What could he not do with this land? What became of the fifty acres when
                    the man died? What became of it if he had no son? What did Oglethorpe and the
                    other trustees hope to do by tying the land up in this way? How did the people
                    feel about it? What resulted from the dissatisfaction of the settlers? What
                    disposition did the trustees make of the colony of Georgia in 1752? What is said
                    of the land system after that? What of rum? What of slaves?
                
                    FRENCH COUNTRY WOMAN OF THE DAY
                
                Were the Germans that came to Georgia the first of their people to
                    settle in America? What is said of the numerous sects in Germany at this time?
                    What did the laws of Pennsylvania promise to these perscuted people? What is
                    said about those sects that disliked war? What miseries did thousands of Germans
                    flee from? What people were hose that came to England in the reign of Queen
                    Anne? Why were  they called Palatines?
                    What were they seeking for? To what colonies were they sent? How many were sent
                    to New York? How were they treated in New York Colony? Where did some of them go
                    to? How did these three hundred get to Pennsylvania? What effect did this have
                    on Germans coming afterward? What was the religion of most of the Irish who came
                    before the Revolution? Why did they leave Ireland? In what year did the Irish
                    come into New England? What did they introduce to New England in 1718? To how
                    many of the colonies did they go? To which colony did the greatest tide of Irish
                    immigration go? How many arrived at Philadelphia in 1729? What was their
                    character? Where did the Germans and Irish go from Pennsylvania when the Indian
                    wars broke out? How did the Germans and Irish go from Pennsylvania when the
                    Indian wars broke out? How did the Irish settlers get through the wilderness
                    into North and South Carilona? What mountains did they cross into the Western
                    country? Who were the people called Huguenots? What made them leave France? In
                    what colonies did they settle? What colony had the largest number of these
                    settlers?
                From what country did the largest number of settlers in every colony
                    come? (What language do we speak in the United States? Why do we speak English?)
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Tell about 
                        
                            Part I.
                            
                                
                                    1. Oglethorpe.
                                
                                
                                    2. Georgiaits location and settlement.
                                
                                
                                    3. Georgiaits objects for which it was
                                    settled.
                                
                                
                                    4. Georgiaits peculiar laws at first.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            Part II.
                            
                                
                                    1. The Germanswhy they came.
                                
                                
                                    2. The Germansthose called Palatines.
                                
                                
                                    3. The Irish in New England.
                                
                                
                                    4. The Irish in Pennsylvania.
                                
                                
                                    5. The Southern migration of Irish and
                                    Germans.
                                
                                
                                    6. The Huguenots.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography
                
                Let the pupil trace the coast-line of Georgia, and mark the site of
                    Savannah, putting down the date, 1732. Either on the sketch-map or some other,
                    the relative position of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carilona, and
                    South Carilona should be pointed out, to illustrate the migration southward from
                    Pennsylvania.
                
                
                FIRST REVIEW.DISCOVERY AND SETTLEMENT. (May be used on the blackboard)
                
                
                    
                        Discovery by Cololumbus.
                        
                            
                                What was he looking for?
                            
                            
                                Objections offered to his plan.
                            
                            
                                His first voyage and return. 1492.
                            
                            
                                His other voyages.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Other Discoveries.
                        
                            
                                North America by Cabot. 1497.
                            
                            
                                To India by Good Hope, by Gama.
                            
                            
                                South America by Columbus. 1498.
                            
                            
                                Pacific Ocean by Balboa. 1513.
                            
                            
                                Round the world by Margellan. 1520.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Ralegh's Expeditions.
                        
                            
                                Under Amidas and Barlowe. 1584.
                            
                            
                                Under Grenville and Lane. 1585.
                            
                            
                                Under John White. 1587.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Beginnings of Virginia.
                        
                            
                                Arrival and sickness. 1607.
                            
                            
                                John Smith and his adventures.
                            
                            
                                The starving-time.
                            
                            
                                Shipwreck of Gates and his arrival.
                            
                            
                                Arrival of De la Warr.
                            
                            
                                Dale's government.
                            
                            
                                Pocahonats.
                            
                            
                                The great charter. 1618.
                            
                            
                                Division of land.
                            
                            
                                Sending of wives.
                            
                            
                                Indian massacre. 1622.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Pilgrims and Puritans.
                        
                            
                                Pilgrims in England and Holland.
                            
                            
                                The Voyage in the Mayflower. 1620.
                            
                            
                                The Pilgrims at Plymouth.
                            
                            
                                New Hampshire and Maine. 1623.
                            
                            
                                Coming of first Puritans to Salem. 1628.
                            
                            
                                The bringing of the charter. 1630.
                            
                            
                                Settlement of Connecticut and New Haven.
                            
                            
                                Settlement of Rhode Island.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The Dutch and Swedes.
                        
                            
                                Hudson's voyage. 1609.
                            
                            
                                Dutch settlement. 1623.
                            
                            
                                Swedish settlement. 1638.
                            
                            
                                Conquest of New Sweden by the Dutch. 1655.
                            
                            
                                Conquest of New Netherland by the English. 1664.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        Settlement of Maryland
                        
                            
                                Lord Baltimore and his colony in Newfoundland.
                            
                            
                                Maryland granted.
                            
                            
                                Colony begun at St. Mary's. 1634.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The Carolinas settled.
                        
                            
                                North Carolina settled as part of Virginia. 1653.
                            
                            
                                Charter to eight proprietors. 1663.
                            
                            
                                Beginning of settlements in South Carilona. 1670.
                            
                            
                                Change of government. 1719 and 1729.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Settlement of New Jersey.
                        
                            
                                Its conquest from the Dutch. 1664.
                            
                            
                                The Jersey's divided. 1674.
                            
                            
                                New-Englander's and Friends in East Jersey.
                            
                            
                                The coming of Quarkers to West Jersey.
                            
                            
                                The Jersey's united again. 1702.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Settlement of Pennsylvania.
                        
                            
                                William Penn and the king.
                            
                            
                                William Penn's colony. 1681.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Settlement of Georgia.
                        
                            
                                General Oglethorpe's colony. 1732.
                            
                            
                                What Oglethorpe proposed to do.
                            
                            
                                Dissatisfaction of the people.
                            
                            
                                Change of government.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Race Elements.
                        
                            
                                The Germanswhy they came, how, and where.
                            
                            
                                The Irishwhy and where.
                            
                            
                                Southward movement of Irish and Germans.
                            
                            
                                French Huguenots.
                            
                            
                                English the most numerous.
                            
                        
                    
                
                Diagram of Emigrations on account of Persecution. (For the blackboard.)
                
                    Pilgrims or Separitists from England by way of Holland to
                        Plymouth Colony.
                    Puritans from England to Massachusetts.
                    Dissenting Puriants from Massachussets to Rhode Island.
                    Roman Catholics from England to Maryland.
                    Huguenots from France to New York, South Carolina, and
                        other colonies.
                    Presbyterians from Scotland and Ireland to New Jersey,
                        Pennsylvania, the Southern colonies, and elsewhere.
                    Lutherans and other sects from Germany and switzerland to
                        Pennsylvania, and thence southward.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIII.
                How the Indians Lived
                
                BEFORE the white people settled
                    America it was inhabitated by many tribes of the people we call Indians. They
                    were called Indians because the first discoveries believed America to be a part
                    of India. The Indian is of a brown or copper color, with black eyes and straight
                    hair.
                
                    The dress of the Indians.
                
                
                    The Indian.
                
                In what is now the United States the clothing of the Indians was
                    mostly made of deer-skin. A whole deer-skin was thrown about the shoulders, a
                    strip of the same material was hung about the loins, and the leggins worn in
                    winter were also of deer-skin. Some of the Southern Indians wore mantles woven
                    from the fiber of a plant which now grows in gardens under the name of "Spanish
                    bayonet," but which in that day was called "silk-grass." The women wore
                    deer-skin aprons. Women of the Northern tribes wore mantles of beaver-skins.
                    Shoes, or moccasins, were of deer-skin, sometimes embroidered with
                    porcupine-quills or shell beads.
                
                    INDIAN CHILDREN PLAYING THE GAME OF DEER AND
                    WOLF.
                
                
                The Indian warriors were fond of staining their faces in stripes,
                    spots, and splashes of red, yellow, and blue. Some of the Virginia Indians wore
                    bears or hawks' claws, and even living snakes, dangling from their ears; and
                    sometimes, also, the savage Indian warrior would wear the dried hand of his dead
                    enemy in the same way. The use of such ugly adornment was to make the savages
                    seem as fierce and terrible as possible. Both men and women decorated themselves
                    with beads, which they made from sea-shells. These were called "wampum", and
                    were worn in strings, or wrought into belts, necklaces, and bracelets. Wampum
                    was also used among them as money, and as presents in making treaties between
                    the tribes.
                
                    STRINGS OF WAMPUM
                
                
                    ZUI INDIAN WOMAN MAKING POTTERY.
                
                
                    Indian houses.
                
                Indian houses, or wigwams, were tents of bark or of mats supported by
                    poles. Among the Indians of the Western prairies, skins of animals were used to
                    cover the Indian houses. Idian wigwams were not divided into rooms. The
                    intimates slept on the ground, or sometimes  on raised platforms. The fire was built in the middle of the
                    wigwam, and the smoke found its way out through an opening at the top. In some
                    tribes long arbor-like houses were built of bark. In these there was fires at
                    regular intervals. Two families lived by each fire.
                
                    MANNER OF BOILING IN AN EARTHEN POT.
                
                
                    INDIAN BOTTLE OF POTTERY FROM ARKANSAS.
                
                
                    Furniture of wigwams, and modes of cookery.
                
                
                    AN INDIAN VASE.
                
                
                    INDIAN MANNER OF BROILING IN 1585.
                
                The Indians had very little furniture. There were a few mats and
                    skins for bedding. Some tribes had for household use wooden vessels, which they
                    made by burning and scraping out blocks of wood, little by little, with no other
                    tools than shells or sharp stones, These Indians cooked their food by putting
                    water into their wooden kettles and then throwing in heated stones. When the
                    stones had made the water hot, they put in it whatever they wished to cook.
                    Other tribes knew how to make pots of earthenware; and yet others cut them out
                    of soap-stone. Vessels of pottery and soap-stone could be set over the fire.
                    Often fish and meat were broiled on sticks laid across above the fire; green
                    corn was roasted under the ashes, as were also squashes, and various rots.
                    Indian corn,  put into a mortar and
                    pounded into meal, was mixed with water and baked in the ashes, or boiled in a
                    pot. Sometimes the meal was parched and carried in a little bag, to be eaten on
                    a journey. A few tribes near to salt springs had salt, the rest used leaves of
                    several sorts fro seasoning.
                
                    STONE AXE.
                
                The coming of the white people made great changes in the Indian life.
                    The furs ad skins, which the Indians did not value except for necessary
                    clothing, were articles of luxury and ornament of great value in Europe. Many a
                    half-starved Indian was clothed in furs that a European prince would have
                    prized. The savage readily exchanged his beautiful beaver coat for a
                    bright-colored blanket and thought he had made a good bargain, though his furs
                    were worth to the white man the price of many blankets. The cheap glass beads
                    and tiny bells, such as the people of old time hung about the necks of the hawks
                    with which they hunted birds, were greatly prized by savages. Jews-harps wee
                    also much liked by them, and were sometimes used in paying them for land. The
                    Indian who could possess himself of a copper kettle was a rich man in his tribe.
                    The cheap iron hatches of the trader drove out the stone axes, and knives were
                    eagerly bought, but guns were more sought after than anything else; and, though
                    there were many laws against selling fire-arms to the Indians, there were always
                    men who were glad to enrich themselves by this lawless trade. The passion of the
                    savage for intoxicating drinks was so great that evil men among the traders were
                    often able to strip them of all their goods by selling them strong liquors. The
                    white settlers generally bought the land they occupied from the Indians. As land
                    was not worth much, the price paid was trifling. Manhattan Island, on which New
                    York now stands, was sold to the Dutch, by the Indians, for about twenty-four
                    dollars. The land-sales made trouble, for the lines were not well defined, and
                    were often matters of dispute. The Indians did not understand business, and they
                    sometimes had to be paid over and over again for a piece of land.
                
                    INDIAN GIRL WITH BASKETS.
                
                For tilling the ground the Indians had rude tools; their hoe was made
                    by attaching to a stick a piece of not deer's horn, or the shoulder-blade bone
                    of an animal, or the shell of a turtle, a bit of wood, or a flat stone. They
                    raised Indian corn, beans, squashes, and tobacco. They prepared the ground by
                    girdling the trees so as to kill them; sometimes they burned the trees down.
                    Some tribes had rude axes for cutting small trees; these were made of stone. The
                    handle of the stone axe was formed by tying a stick to it, or by twisting a
                    green withe about it. Sometimes an Indian would  split open a growing young tree and put the axe into the
                    cleft; when the tree had grown fast around the axe he would cut it down and
                    shorten it to the proper length for a handle. The Indians had no iron. For
                    knives they had pieces of bone, sharp stones, and shells.
                
                    Cutting-tools.
                
                
                    INDIAN KINDLING FIRE
                
                The Indian procured fire by twirling the end of a stick against
                    another piece of wood. To give this twirling stick a quick motion, he wrapped a
                    bowstring about it, and then drew the bow swiftly to and fro.
                
                    Making fire
                
                
                    Canoes.
                
                
                    PIUTE INDIAN GIRLS WITH WATER-JARS.
                
                The most remarkable product of Indian skill was the canoe; this was
                    made in some tribes by burning out a log, little by little, and scraping the
                    charred parts with shells, until the "dug-out" canoe was sufficiently deep and
                    rightly shaped. Many canoes made in this way, without any other tools than
                    shells and sharp stones, would carry from twenty to forty men. The Northern
                    tribes constructed a more beautiful canoe, of white-birch bark, stretched  on slender wooden ribs, and sewed
                    together with roots and fibers. Such canoes were made water-tight by the use of
                    gums.
                
                    One Indian is seen scraping out the charred wood, another is
                        fanning the fire, while a third is burning down a tree to begina new
                    canoe.
                
                
                    MAKING A CANOE.
                
                
                    Division of labor.
                
                Among the Indians, the hardest work fell to the women. Hunting,
                    gambling, and making war, were the occupations of the men. The male Indian was
                    from childhood trained to war and the chase. Game and fish, with such fruits,
                    nuts, and roots as grew wild in the woods and swamps, were the principal
                    dependence of the Indians for food. As they suffered much from hunger and
                    misery, the population of the country was always thin.
                
                    Wars between the tribes.
                
                Moreover, the continual wars waged between the various tribes, in
                    which women and children as well as men were slain, kept the red-men from
                    increasing in numbers. Large tracts of country were left uninhabited, because
                    tribes at war dared not live near to one another, for fear of surprise. In all
                    the country east of the Mississippi River there were but a few hundred thousand
                    people; hardly more than there are in one of our smallest States, and not
                    enough, if they had all been brought together, to make a large city.
                
                What were the people called who lived in America before white men
                    came? Why were they called Indians? (Are there any of them remaining yet?) What
                    is the color of their skin? What kind of eyes have they? What sort of hair? What
                    material was mostly in use among them for clothing? What garments did they wear?
                    Of what plant did the Southern Indians make mantles? What sort of mantles were
                    used by women in the Northern tribes? How were their shoes made? With what were
                    their shoes embroidered? How did the Indian "braves," or warriors, stain their
                    faces? What did they some-times wear hanging to their ears? What kind of beads
                    did the Indians wear? For what other purpose was wampum used? What was the
                    Indian house, or wigwam, made of? How did the Indians sleep? Where was the fire
                    made? How did the smoke get out? Some tribes built long houses: What is said of
                    these? What did the Indians have for bedding? What kinds of vessels for
                    household use? How did they hollow out their wooden vessels? How did those
                    tribes that had only wooden vessels cook food in them? How did those that had
                    pottery and soap-stone kettles use them for cooking? How were fish and meat
                    sometimes broiled? How were green corn and other vegetables roasted? How ws corn
                    made into meal? How was bread baked? What did the Indians do for salt? What can
                    you tell about the various sorts of hoes made by the Indians? What plants did
                    they cultivate? How did they clear the ground?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                    POTTERY FROM MISSOURI.
                
                
                    INDIAN WIGWAMS OF BARK.
                
                
                    NAVAJO INDIAN WOMAN WEAVING A BELT.
                
                Some tribes had axes: what were these made of? How did they put
                    handles to them? Had the Indians  any
                    iron? How did they commonly make knives? How did they produce fire? What was the
                    most remarkable product of Indian industry? How was the dug-out canoe made
                    without metal tools? How many men would the larger of these carry? Of what did
                    the Northern tribes make their canoes? How did they sew them? How did they make
                    them tight? What was the difference between the work of the women and the
                    occupations of the men? What is said of the education of Indian boys? On what
                    did the Indians mainly depend for food? What effect did their poverty have
                    population? What other cause kept the Indians from increasing in numbers? What
                    is said of the Indian population east of the Mississippi River?
                Tell what you know about 
                        
                            I. The appearance of the Indian.
                            
                                
                                    1. Complexion, hair, eyes.
                                
                                
                                    2. Articles of dress.
                                
                                
                                    3. Things worn for ornament.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            II. The Indians' mode of living.
                            
                                
                                    1. Houses: their construction.
                                
                                
                                    2. Houses: their inside arrangements.
                                
                                
                                    3. Furniture.
                                
                                
                                    4. Cookery.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            III. The Indian at work.
                            
                                
                                    1. Tools.
                                
                                
                                    2. Plants cultivated.
                                
                                
                                    3. Canoes.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            IV. Mens's and women's work.
                        
                        
                            V. Effect of poverty and war on the Indian
                            population.
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics. Blackboard illustration.
                        MEDICINE-MAN, WITH A MANTLE OF SILK-GRASS, DRAWN IN 1585.
                
                Divide the board horizontally into three parts. Then write, from
                    suggestions made by the pupils, in the topmost division, the various items of
                    dress and ornaments belonging to an Indian's head; in the second, those worn on
                    the body; in the third, those used on the feet.
                Let the pupil suppose himself to be a settler in America in the early
                    colonial times. Let him write a letter to a supposed friend in England, telling
                    in his own words what is told in this and the two following chapters, especially
                    about Indian customs and the trade between them and the white people.
                
                    Composition.
                
                Major Powell's Reports of the Ethnological Bureau. Century Magazine,
                    May, 1883, "The Aborigines and the Colonists."
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XIV.
                Early Indian Wars.
                THERE were, between the two races,
                    occasions enough for quarreling. Dishonest white men were sure to cheat the
                    ignorant Indians, and the violent among the Indians were as sure to revenge
                    themselves. If an Indian suffered wrong from one white man, he thought he had a
                    right to take vengeance on any man, woman, or child of the white race when he
                    found opportunity.
                
                    Early Indian massacres in Virginia.
                
                
                    FLORIDA WARRIOUR, 1565.
                
                We have seen how suddenly the Indians massacred the Virginians in
                    1622 (page 32). This led to a long war, with many treacheries and cruel
                    surprises on both sides. After some years the Indians were subdued by the
                    Virginians, under the lead of William Claiborne. But in 1644 the old chief
                    Opechankano, who had led in the first massacre, planned a second. He was so old
                    that he could not walk without assistance, and could not see, except when his
                    eyelids were held open. He was carried to the scene of bloodshed. The Indians
                    had by this time secured guns. By a sudden surprise  they killed about five hundred white people in a single day.
                    But they paid dearly for their victory, for the colony had grown strong enough
                    to defeat and punish them. They were driven away from their villages.
                    Opechankano was taken prisoner, and, while a captive, was suddenly killed by an
                    infuriated soldier.
                
                    INDIAN MASK.
                
                The Pe'-quot war in Connecticut grew out of the differenced between
                    the Dutch and English settlers. The English brought back the Indians whom the
                    Pequot tribe had just driven away. The Pequots bean the war by killing some
                    English traders. The attempts of the English colonists to conquer the Pequots
                    were at first of no avail. The Indians were light of foot, and got away from men
                    in armor. They continued to seize and torture to death such English as they
                    could catch. In 1637, John Mason, a trained soldier, at the head of a company of
                    Connecticut men, with some from Massachusetts, marched into the Pequot country.
                    At Mystic, Connecticut, just before daybreak, the Connecticut men surrounded the
                    palisaded village of Sassacus, the dreaded Pequot chief. In the first onset
                    Mason set the village on fire. A horrible slaughter followed. Indian men, women,
                    and children, to the number of five or six hundred, were shot down or burned in
                    the village, or in trying to escape. In the war which followed this attack, the
                    whole Pequot tribe was broken up, and the other Indians were so terrified that
                    New England had peace for many years after.
                
                    The Pequot war in 1647.
                
                About the same time cruel Indian wars raged between the Dutch of New
                    Netherland (now New York) and the Indians in their neighborhood. At one time the
                    Dutch colony was almost overthrown. There was 
                        SHELL AXE.
                    
                    
                        Indian wars in New York, Maryland, and Virginia.
                    
                     also a war between the Marylanders
                    and the Sus-quehan'-nah tribe. In 1656 the Virginians suffered a bitter defeat
                    in a battle with the Indians at the place where Richmond now stands. The brook
                    at this place got the name of Bloody Run.
                In 1675 there broke out in New England the terrible Indian war known
                    ever since as King Philip's War. Philip was the son of Massasoit, the Indian
                    chief who had been long a friend to the Plymouth settlers. Philip was a proud
                    man, and thought that he was not treated with enough respect by the rulers of
                    Plymouth Colony, who acted with imprudent boldness in their dealings with him.
                    He was also irritated because large numbers of his people were converted to the
                    Christian religion, through the labors of John Eliot. These converted people, or
                    "praying Indians," formed themselves into villages, and lived under the
                    government of the Massachusetts colony.
                
                    BELT OF WAMPUM.
                
                
                    King Philip's War. 1675.
                
                
                    Many of the white people sincerely desired to do the Indians
                        good. Schools for the education of Indian children were set up in Virginia
                        and in New England. Catholic missionaries labored among the Indians of
                        Maryland. John Eliot, of Masachusetts, preached to thousands of Indians, and
                        translated the whole Bible into their language. He is called the "Apostle to
                        the Indians." But, even in trying to do the Indians good, the white men
                        offended them. The chiefs and "medicine-men" of the Indians did not like to
                        see their ancient customs treated with contempt, and their own influence
                        destroyed by the new religion.
                
                Philip won some successes at first, and Indians of other tribes came
                    to his assistance. Many New England towns were laid in ashes, and hundreds of
                    people were killed or carried away into captivity. The powerful tribe of
                    Narragansetts gave Philip secret aid, and in the winter the white men boldly
                    attacked their stronghold. This was always known as the "Swamp Fight." Hundreds
                    of Indians were slain, and their 
                        The "Swamp Fight" at the Narragansett fort.
                    
                    
                        MASK MADE BY IROQUOIS INDIANS.
                    
                     village burned. The colonists also
                    lost two hundred men in this battle, and the Narragansetts took a terrible
                    revenge by burning houses and killing people in every direction.
                But after a while the while men learned how to fight the Indians. By
                    degrees Philip's power was broken, as his men were most of them killed or
                    captured. Captain Benjamin Church was the most famous fighter against the
                    Indians in this war. Church's men surrounded Philip in a swamp and killed him.
                    The rest of the Indians were soon subdued. Most of the captive Indians were
                    cruelly sold into slavery in Barbadoes.
                About the time of Philip's war the Doegs and Susquehannahs were
                    ravaging the Virginia frontier, while the governor of that colony refused to
                    allow any one to march against them. But Nathaniel Bacon, a young man of great
                    spirit, was chosen by the people to lead them, which he did in opposition to the
                    governor's orders. This disobedience led to "Bacon's Rebellion," as it is
                    called, the story of which is told in Chapter XXVI.
                All the colonies suffered from Indian wars. The infant settlement in
                    South Carolina was almost ruined by 
                        The westoes and Tuscaroras defeated.
                    
                    
                        Bacon's war with the Virginia Indians. 1676.
                    
                    
                        Captain Church and the death of Phillip.
                    
                    
                        Benjamin Church was one of the first of the Indian fighters.
                            He knew how to manage men, and had great influence over them. He would
                            even persuade captive Indians to join his band and lead him to the
                            haunts of their friends. It was one of these Indians who shot Philip.
                            Church let him take Philip's scarred hand for a trophy. This he carried
                            about the country, making money by showing it. Captain Church was
                            tireless, fearless, and full of expedients. He first taught the
                            Englishmen to practice the arts of the Indian in war. When Philip was
                            dead, only old Annawon, Philip's head-man, remained in the field with a
                            party. When Church at last found him, he was sheltered under some
                            cliffs. Church had but half a dozen men with him; Annawon ten times that
                            number of resolute braves. But by creeping down the cliffs, while an
                            Indian woman was making a noise by pounding corn in a mortar, Church
                            succeeded in capturing the guns of the Indians, which were stacked at
                            Annawon's feet, Seeing his boldness, the Indians thought that Church had
                            surrounded them with a great many men, and they therefore surrendered.
                            Church also performed many famous exploits in the war with the Indians
                            of Maine.
                    
                     a war with the Indians called
                    Wes'-toes, ten years after the arrival of the first white men, and in the very
                    year that Charleston was settled; that is, in 1680. In 1711 the warlike
                    Tuscaroras [tus-ca-ro'-rahs] ravaged the scattered settlements of North
                    Carolina, putting people to death by horrible tortures. It was only by the help
                    of the Virginians and South Carolinians, and the Yam-as-see' Indians, that the
                    settlers, after two years, finally defeated the Tuscaroras, capturing and
                    sending many hundreds of them to be sold as slaves in the West India Islands.
                
                    The Yamassee war in South Carolina. 1715.
                
                
                    NORTH CAROLINA WARRIOR IN 1585.
                
                But in 1715, two years after the close of this war, the Yamassees,
                    who had helped the white people to put down the Tuscaroras, joined with the
                    Spaniards in Florida, and with all the other Indians from Florida to Cape Fear,
                    in an attempt to destroy the colony of South Carolina. There were six or seven
                    thousand Indian warriors in this league, while South Carolina could only muster
                    fifteen hundred white men and two hundred trusty negroes. Governor Craven knew
                    that a single defeat would ruin the colony, so he marched with the utmost
                    caution until he brought on a great battle, and overthrew the Indians. The war
                    lasted about three years.
                
                What followed the Indian massacre in Virginia in 1622? What was the
                    nature of that war? Who led the settlers when the Indians were at length
                    subdued? What Indian chief conducted the massacre in 1644? What was the
                    condition of Opechankano in 1644? What kind of arms did the Indians have by this
                    time? How many white people did they kill in the first attack? What was the
                    result of the war to the Indians? What happened to the old chief Opechankano?
                    What was the cause of the Pequot war in Connecticut? How did the Pequots begin
                    it? How did the colonists succeed in their first attempts to subdue the Pequots?
                    Why did they not succeed? What did the Pequots continue to do? Who was put in
                    command of the Connecticut troops in 1637? Where did he lead his men? At what
                    point did he attack the Indians? Whose village did he surround? What kind of a
                    village was this? (What is a palisaded village? Answer: A village surrounded
                    with upright posts or palisades for defense.) How was the village destroyed?
                    What became of the people in it? What do you think of this way of carrying on
                    war? What is said of the wars of that day? What became of the Pequots? What
                    other Indian wars were waged at this time? Where did the Virginians suffer
                    defeat in 1656? What is the brook called where the battle was fought? What war
                    broke out in New England in 1675? Who was Philip? What feelings inclined him to
                    make war? What is said of the converted, or praying, Indians? What effect did
                    Philip's successes have on other Indians? What took place in the attack on the
                    Narragansetts? What did the white men learn? Who was especially famous in this
                    war with the Indians? How did Philip's Indians? What colony was ravaged by the
                    Doegs and Susque-hannahs? What did the governor of the colony do? Who was chosen
                    to lead the people? By whom was he chosen? To what did this lead?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                    CALUMET, OR PEACE-PIPE.
                
                How long after the arrival of settlers in South Carolina was it when
                    the war with the Westoes broke out? What effect did this first war have on the
                    feeble settlements? In what year did the Tuscarora war break out in North
                    Carolina? What did the Tuscaroras do with the people they captured? What
                    colonies helped to put down the Tuscaroras? What Indians helped to conquer them?
                    How long did the Tuscarora war last? What was done with the captured Indians?
                    Did the Yamassees keep their peace with South Carolina? With whom did they join?
                    How many Indians were against South Carolina? How many white soldiers were
                    there? What would have been the result of a single defeat? What was the result
                    of Governor Craven's fight with the Indians? How long did the Yamassee war last?
                
                    MATCHLOCK-GUN.
                
                
                Tell about 
                        
                            1. The principal Indian war in Virginia.
                        
                        
                            2. The Pequot and Philip's war in New England.
                        
                        
                            3. The Indian wars in South and North Carolina.
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                The tree topics above may be set down and the brief mention of
                    particulars, as drawn from the answers of the pupils, added. For example:
                    "Pequot war: English brought back the expelled tribe. Pequots killed traders.
                    English failed at first. Captain Mason. Attacked Sassacus's fort. Palisaded. Set
                    fire. Six hundred men, women, and children killed." Let the other prominent wars
                    be treated in the same way.
                
                    MATCHLOCK.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XV.
                Traits of War with the Indians.
                THE most important weapon of the
                    Indian, when the white men came, was the bow and arrow. The arrow was headed
                    with a sharpened flint or a bit of horn. Sometimes the spur of a wild-turkey or
                    the claw of an eagle was used to point the arrow. Next to the bow and arrow the
                    Indian warrior depended on a war-club, which had a handle at one end and a heavy
                    knob at the other, or upon a tomahawk, made by fastening a wooden handle to a
                    round stone, or a stone axe. But all their rude weapons were given up as soon as
                    the Indians could get knives, hatchets, and guns from the white men. In some
                    cases, it is said, they were so eager for gunpowder that they sowed what they
                    got at first, supposing it to be the seed of a plant. The Pequots commanded two
                    white girls, whom they had captured, to make some gunpowder, supposing that all
                    white people knew how to make it.
                
                    Indian weapons.
                
                
                    MATCHLOCK-GUN.
                
                At the first arrival of white men, they protected themselves by
                    wearing armor, and the Indian arrows 
                    
                        Armor and arms of the white men.
                    
                     could not do them much hurt. But
                    as soldiers could not get about very fast in heavy armor and with clumsy guns,
                    they could not do much hurt to the Indians. Some of the guns used were
                    matchlocks. In order to shoot, the soldier had to place in front him a "rest" a
                    kind of forked stick or staff and lay his heavy gun across it. In firing, the
                    powder on the lock of his gun was set off with a lighted fuse or match; and the
                    soldier had to carry a burning fuse in his hand. If he let his fuse go out, he
                    could not use his gun until he got fire again, for friction-matches were
                    unknown. But the Indians would not stand still while the white men got ready to
                    shoot. This awkward match-lock-gun was sometimes used as late as 1675, the time
                    of Philip's war. The snaphance, or flint-lock, was already coming into use when
                    the colonies were settled. The flint-lock was set off by the striking of the
                    flint against a piece of steel, when the trigger was pulled. (Guns with
                    percussion-caps are a much later invention.) Some of the white men at first were
                    armed with pikes or spears; but it was found to be a very dangerous business to
                    poke an Indian out of the brush with a pike. During Philip's war the pike began
                    to go out of use in America.
                
                    PIKEMAN OF THAT TIME.
                
                When the Indians had procured fire-arms, the armor which the soldiers
                    wore, being of little use against bullets, was rather a burden than an
                    advantage. Long after the first set 
                        The Indians get fire-arms. White men change their mode of
                            fighting.
                    
                     tlements were made, white men ceased
                    by degrees to wear the head, and breast, and back pieces of metal, and they laid
                    aside also the heavy buff-coats, which were made of leather and stuffed, to
                    resist bullets. The colonists also learned to march in scattering parties, as
                    the Indians did, in order to avoid surprise, and to lie in ambush, and to load
                    their guns while lying down. For a long time the savages made attacks on the
                    Northern settlements in the winter, when the snow was so deep tat the soldiers
                    could not move about; but, after stupidly suffering this for many years, the
                    Northern colonies at length put their soldiers on snow-shoes too, and then all
                    was changed.
                
                    SNOW-SHOES
                
                The Indian did not hesitate to resort to treachery to entrap his
                    foes. He would profess friendship in order to disarm an enemy. He gloried in
                    ingenious tricks, such as the wearing of snow-shoes with the hind part before,
                    so as to make an enemy believe that he had gone in an opposite direction. He
                    would sometimes imitate the cry of the wild-turkey, and so tempt a white hunter
                    into the woods, that he might destroy him. An Indian scout would dress himself
                    up with twigs, so as to look like a bush. Many of these things the white people
                    learned to practice also.
                
                    Indian stratagems.
                
                The Indians were very cruel; it was part of their plan to strike
                    terror by their severity. This is why they tortured their prisoners to death and
                    disfigured the dead, and why they slew women and children as well as men. They
                    not only put their prisoners to death in the most cruel way their ingenuity
                    could devise, but, in some tribes, they even devoured them afterward. Sometimes,
                    however, a prisoner was adopted into an Indian family, and kindly treated. Many
                    hundreds 
                        Treatment of prisoners by the Indians.
                    
                     of white children were thus adopted,
                    and forgot their own language. Some of them afterward engaged in war against
                    their own people. One boy, named Thomas Rice, was carried off from Massachusetts
                    in childhood, and became a chief of the tribe which had captured him.
                The settlers learned after a while many ways of defending themselves.
                    They build block-houses in every exposed settlement, for refuge in case of
                    attack. When Indians were discovered lurking about in the night, a messenger
                    would be sent from the block-house to warn the sleeping settlers. This messenger
                    would creep up to a window and tap on it, whispering, "Indians!" Then the family
                    within would get up, and, without speaking of making a light, gather the most
                    necessary things and hurry away along dark paths through the woods to the
                    blockhouse. In some of the more exposed regions the dogs were even trained not
                    to bark unless commanded to.
                
                    Defense of the settlements.
                
                
                    BLOCK-HOUSE
                
                In some, if not all, of the colonies, the firing of three shots in
                    succession was the sign of danger. Every man who heard it was required to pass
                    the alarm to those farther away, by firing three times, and then to go in the
                    direction in which the shots had been heard. In 
                        Stories of Defense. A town in Maine was attacked and almost
                            destroyed by Indians, when one man sent his family by boat out of the
                            back door of his fortified house, remaining there alone. By frequently
                            changing his hat and coat, and then appearing without a hat and then
                            without a coat, and by giving orders in a loud voice, he made the
                            Indians believe that his house was too full of men for them to attack
                            it. Some Swedish women, near where Philadelphia now stands, saw Indians
                            coming, and took refuge in their fortified church, carrying with them a
                            kettle of hot soap. They defended themselves until their husbands came
                            by throwing the boiling soap, with a ladle, at every Indian who
                            approached the church. A maid-servant in Massachusetts, left alone with
                            little children, drove away an Indian, who tried to enter the house, by
                            firing a musket at him and throwing a shovelful of live coals on his
                            head. A young girl in Maine held a door shut until thirteen women and
                            children had time to escape by a back door into a block-house. The
                            Indians, when they got in, knocked the girl down, but did not kill
                        her.
                    
                     many places large dogs were kept and
                    trained to hunt for Indians, as highway robbers were hunted down in that day in
                    England. In all exposed places, a part or all of the men took their arms to
                    church with them.
                
                    Escape of Prisoners. A young girl in New England, after three
                        weeks of captivity, made a bridle out of bark, caught a horse running in the
                        woods, and, by riding all night, reached the settlement. Two little lads
                        named Bradley got away, but they were tracked by the Indian dogs, who came
                        up with them while they were hidden in a hollow log. They fed the dogs part
                        of their provisions to make them friendly. After traveling nine days the
                        elder fell down with exhaustion, but the younger, who was the more resolute,
                        dragged himself starving into a settlement in Maine, and sent help to his
                        brother. Hannah Dustin, Mary Neff, and a boy were carried off from
                        Haverhill, Massachusetts. At midnight, while encamped on an island, they got
                        hatchets and killed ten Indians, and then escaped in a canoe down the river.
                        This bold escape soon became famous in the colonies, and the Governor of
                        Maryland, hearing of its, sent to the returned captives a present for their
                        courage.
                
                
                    Courage of the people
                
                The people became very brave, and were fierce and even cruel during
                    these long-continued Indian wars. A wounded soldier would beg to have a loaded
                    gun put into his hands that he might, before he died, kill one more Indian.
                    Captives often escaped from the Indians by ingenious devices, and sometimes
                    suffered dreadful hardships in getting back to the settlements.
                
                What was the Indian's chief weapon when the white men came to
                    America? How was the head or point of the arrow made? What kind of a war-club
                    was used? What sort of a weapon was the tomahawk? Why were these weapons
                    abandoned? What stories are told of the Indian's eagerness to get gunpowder? How
                    were the whit soldiers protected from the Indian arrows at first? Why could not
                    the white men in aromor do much harm to the Indians? What kind of guns were some
                    of those in use? How did the soldier arrange his gun in order to shoot? How did
                    he fire his gun? If his fuse went out, what 
                        Questions for study
                    
                     was the result? How late was the
                    matchlock-gun used? What newer gun was coming into use when the colonies were
                    settled? How was the flint-lock fired off? How are guns made to go off in our
                    time?
                How were some of the white men armed at the time of the settlement of
                    the colonies? Was the pike good for Indian war? When did it go out of use in
                    America? When the Indians had procured guns, what difference did this make in
                    the value of the armor that the soldiers wore? What pieces of the armor used in
                    this country were of metal? What ort of a coat was worn for defense? What did
                    the colonists learn from the Indians about marching? What about ambush and the
                    method of loading their guns? What change took place in the mode of making war
                    in winter? What is snow-shoe? What is said of Indian treachery? Tell some of he
                    ingenious tricks to which Indians resorted. Why were the Indians cruel to their
                    prisoners, and given to disfiguring the dead? Why did they kill women and
                    children? What did some tribes do with prisoners after they had put them to
                    death? When they spared a prisoner's life, what did they do with him? What is
                    said of white children adopted by the Indians? What kind of buildings were
                    constructed for the defense of the settlements? How were the people warned that
                    Indians were about? What precautions were taken against discovery by the
                    Indians? What was a common mode of giving alarm in some of the colonies? What
                    must a man do who heard three shots? What were dogs trained to do? What
                    precautions against surprise at church were taken? What effect did the Indian
                    wars have on the people? What is said of wounded soldiers? What is said of the
                    escape of captives?
                
                    WAR-CLUB
                
                
                    
                        I. Indian weapons.
                        
                            
                                1. Their first weapons.
                            
                            
                                2. The change to those of the white men.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Arms of the white men.
                        
                            
                                1. Their defensive armor.
                            
                            
                                2. Their fire-arms.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Matchlocks.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Flint-locks.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                3. Pikes.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Change of armor and tactics.
                        
                            
                                1. Defensive armor abandoned.
                            
                            
                                2. Indian tactics adopted.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Character of Indian war.
                        
                            
                                1. Indian strategy.
                            
                            
                                2. Cruelty of Indian war.
                            
                            
                                3. Treatment of prisoners by the Indians.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Defense of the settlements.
                        
                            
                                1. Block-house.
                            
                            
                                2. Alarms.
                            
                            
                                3. Keeping dogs and carrying arms.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VI. Courage of the people.
                        
                            
                                Indians change from
                            
                            
                                bow and arrow
                            
                            
                                stone war-club to
                            
                            
                                fire-arms.
                            
                            
                                hatchet.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        White men change from
                    
                    
                        heavy armor
                    
                    
                        matchlock-guns
                    
                    
                        pikes to
                    
                    
                        no defensive armor.
                    
                    
                        flint-locks.
                    
                    
                        no pikes.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics
                
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVI.
                Life in the Colonial Time.
                WHEN people first came to this country, they had to take up with such
                    house as they could get. In Virginia and New England, as in New York and
                    Philadelphia, holes were dug in the ground for dwelling-places by some of the
                    first settlers. In some places bark wigwams were made, like those of the
                    Indians. Sometimes a rude cabin was built of round logs, and without a floor. As
                    time advanced, better houses were built. Some of these were of hewed logs, some
                    of planks split, or sawed out by hand. The ricer people built good house soon
                    after they came. Most of these had in the middle a large room, called "the
                    hall".
                
                    First houses of the colonists.
                
                
                    CABIN OF ROUND LOGS.
                
                The chimneys were generally very large, with wide fireplaces.
                    Sometimes there were seats inside the fire-place, and children, sitting on these
                    seats in the evening, amused themselves by watching the stars through the top of
                    the chimney. In the early houses most of the windows had paper instead of glass.
                    This paper was oiled, so as to let light come through.
                
                    Chimneys and windows.
                
                Except in the house of rich people the furniture was scant and rough.
                    Benches, stools, and tables were home-made. Beds were often filled with
                    mistletoe, the 
                        Furniture and dishes.
                    
                     down from cat-tail flags, or the
                    feathers of wild-pigeons. People who were not rich brought their food to the
                    table in wooden trenchers, or trays, and ate off wooden plates. Some used square
                    blocks of wood instead of plates. Neither rich nor poor, in England or America,
                    had forks when the first colonies were settled. Meat was cut with a knife and
                    eaten from the fingers. On the tables of well-to-do people pewter dishes were
                    much used, and a row of shingling pewter in an open cupboard, called a dresser,
                    was a sign of good housekeeping. The richest people had silver-ware for use on
                    great occasions. They also had stately furniture brought from England. But
                    carpets were hardly ever seen. The floor of the best room was strewed with sand,
                    which was marked off in ornamental figures. There was no wall-paper until long
                    after 1700, but rich cloths and tapestry hung on the walls of the finest houses.
                Cooking was done in front of fireplaces in skillets and on griddles
                    that stood upon legs, so that coals could be put under them, and in pots and
                    kettles that hung over the fire on a swinging crane, so that they could be drawn
                    out or pushed back. Sometimes there was an oven, for baking, built in the side
                    of the chimney. Meat was roasted on a spit in front of the fire. The spit was an
                    iron rod thrust through the piece to be roasted, and turned by a crank. A whole
                    pig or fowl was some-times hung up before the fire and turned about while it
                    roasted. Often pieces of meat were broiled by throwing them on the live coals.
                
                    How the colonists cooked their food.
                
                A mug of home-brewed beer, with bread and cheese, or a porridge of
                    peas or beans, boiled with a little meat, constituted the breakfast of the early
                    colonists. Neither 
                        What they ate.
                    
                     tea nor coffee was known in England
                    or this country until long after the first colonies were settled. When tea came
                    in, it became a fashionable drink, and was served to company from pretty little
                    china cups, set on lacquered tables. Mush, made of Indian-corn meal, was eaten
                    for supper.
                
                    A WEDDING IN NEW AMSTERDAM.
                
                In proportion to the population, more wine and spirits were consumed
                    at the time than now. The very strong Madeira wine wasdrunk at genteel tables.
                
                    What they drank
                
                
                Rum, which from its destructive effects was known everywhere by the
                    nickname of "kill-devil," was much used then. At every social gathering rum was
                    provided. Hard cider was a common drink. There was much shameful drunkenness.
                    Peach-brandy was used in the Middle and Southern colonies, and was very ruinous
                    to health and morals.
                
                    A CALASH.
                
                People of wealth made great display in their dress. Much lace and
                    many silver buckles and buttons were worn. Workingmen of all sorts wore leather,
                    deerskin, or coarse canvas breeches. The stockings worn by men were long, the
                    breeches were short, and buckled, or otherwise fastened, at the knees.
                
                    What they wore.
                
                Our forefathers traveled about in canoes and little sailing-boats
                    called shallops. Most of the canoes would hold about six men, but some were
                    large enough to hold forty or more. For a long time there were no roads except
                    Indian trails and bridle-paths, which could 
                        How they traveled.
                    
                    
                        BIRCH-CANOES
                    
                     only be traveled on foot or on
                    horseback. Goods were carried on pack-horses. When roads were made, wagons came
                    into use.
                In a life so hard and busy as that of the early settlers, there was
                    little time for education. The schools were few and generally poor. Boys, when
                    taught at all, learned to read, write, and "cast accounts." Girls were taught
                    even less. Many of the children born when the colonies were new grew up unable
                    to write their names. There were few books at first, and no newspapers until
                    after 1700. There was little to occupy the mind except the Sunday sermon.
                
                    Their education.
                
                In all the colonies people were very fond of dancing-parties.
                    Weddings were times of great excitement and often of much drinking. In some of
                    the colonies wedding festivities were continued for several days. Even funerals
                    were occasions of feasting, and sometimes of excessive drinking. In the Middle
                    and Southern colonies the people were fond of horse-racing, cock-fighting, and
                    many other rude sports brought from England. New England people made their
                    militia-trainings the occasions for feasting and amusement, fighting sham
                    battles, and playing many rough, old-fashioned games. Coasting on the snow,
                    skating, and sleighing were first brought into America from Holland by the Dutch
                    settlers in New York. In all the colonies there was a great deal of hunting and
                    fishing. The woods were full of deer and wild-turkeys. Flocks of pigeons often
                    darkened the sky, and the rivers were alive with water. Fowl and fish.
                
                    Their amusements.
                
                
                    DUTCH WOMAN OF THE TIME, SKATING.
                
                
                Mention some of the houses, or other shelters, used when people first
                    came to this country. How were planks for houses made in the early times? What
                    kind of houses did the richer people build? What sort of chimneys did they have
                    in that time? What is said of the seats in the fireplace? How did the windows of
                    the early settlers differ from ours? What sort of furniture was there in the
                    house? What is said of benches, stools, and tables? How were beds often filled?
                    In what kind of dishes was meat served? From what kind of plates did they eat?
                    What about forks? How did they eat meat in that day? What kind of dishes were on
                    the tables of people better off? How was the pewter kept? What kind of ware did
                    the richest people have? What kind of furniture? What is said of carpets? How
                    was the floor of the best room ornamented? What was used in fine houses in place
                    of our wallpaper? How was the cooking done? Where was there sometimes an oven?
                    What was it used for? How was meat roasted? What was a spit? How were pigs and
                    fowls roasted? How was meat sometimes broiled? What kind of a breakfast was
                    eaten by the early colonists? What is said of tea and coffee? How was tea
                    served? What was much used for supper? What is said of the use of wine and
                    spirits then, as compared with the use of those drinks now? What kind of wine
                    was drunk? What is said of the use of rum them? What of hard cider? What of
                    drunkenness? What 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                        PACK-HORSES.
                    
                     kind of brandy was used? With what
                    results? How did rich people dress? What sort of breeches did workingmen wear?
                    What sort of stockings? How were the breeches fastened at the knees?
                How did our forefathers travel about? How large were the largest
                    canoes? What was the common size of the canoe? What kind of roads did they have
                    at first? How did they travel overland? How were goods carried? What change took
                    place when roads were made?
                Why was there not much education given to children born in the
                    colonies at first? What kind of schools did they have? What were boys taught?
                    How were girls taught? Did all the children get some education? What is said of
                    books and newspapers? What was there to occupy the mind? Of what kind of parties
                    were people fond in all the colonies? What is said of weddings? Of funerals?
                    What amusements were people fond of in the Middle and Southern colonies? What
                    was made a time for amusement in New England? What kind of games were played on
                    training-days? From what country were coasting, skating, and sleighing brought
                    to America? What is said of hunting and fishing? What of the abundance of game
                    and fish?
                
                    
                        1. Houses.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. Various kinds of
                                dwellings.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Chimneys.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c. Windows.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        2. Furniture.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. Seats, tables, and beds.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Table-ware.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c. Floor and wall coverings.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        3. Food.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. How cooked.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Kinds of food.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c. Drinks.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        4. Dress.
                    
                    
                        5. Travel.
                    
                    
                        6. Education.
                    
                    
                        7. Amusements.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    A SCHOOL-SCENE IN 1740. THE MASTER AND HIS
                        ASSISTANT WEAR HATS.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVII.
                Farming and Shipping in the Colonies.
                WE have seen how the people who came first to North America expected
                    to find either a way to India, or mines like those discovered farther southward.
                    But when they found that they could not secure either the spices of India or the
                    gold and silver of Peru, they turned their attention to the soil, to see what
                    could be got by farming. But at first their plans for farming in America were as
                    wild as their plans for getting to India. They spent much time in trying to
                    produce silk and wine, two things which can be raised with profit only in old
                    and well-settled countries. They also tried to raise madder, coffee, tea,
                    olives, and the cacaonut, from which chocolate is made.
                
                    Early experiments in silk-raising, vine-growing, etc.
                
                John Rolfe, the husband of Pocahontas, in 1612 took a lesson from the
                    Indian fields about him, and succeeded in growing tobacco for the English
                    market. Before this time, English smokers and snuff-takers got their tobacco
                    from the Spaniards. The plant was well suited to the Virginia climate, and it
                    was easy to ship tobacco from the farms, which were all on the banks of the
                    rivers. Gold and silver coins were scarce in those days, and, in half a dozen
                    years after John Rolfe planted the first tobacco, it had become the only money
                    of Virginia. Almost every thing bought and sold in Virginia and Maryland, before
                    the Revolution, was paid for in tobacco.
                
                    Tobacco-growing in Virginia and Maryland.
                
                The colony of South Carolina maintained itself in a rather poor way,
                    during the first twenty-six years of its existence, chiefly by shipping lumber
                    to the West 
                        Rice produced in South Carolina.
                    
                     Indies, and by making tar and pitch.
                    But there was living in Charleston, in 1696, a gentleman named Thomas Smith, who
                    had seen rice cultivated in Madagascar. One day when a sea-captain, an old
                    friend of Smith's, sailed into Charleston Harbor from Madagascar, Thomas Smith
                    got from him a bag of seed-rice. This was carefully sown in a wet place in
                    Smith's garden in Charleston. It grew, and soon Carolina was changed into a land
                    of great rice-plantations. The raising of rice spread into Georgia when that
                    colony was settled.
                In 1741 an energetic young lady, Miss Eliza Lucas, began to try
                    experiments in growing the indigo-plant in South Carolina. A frost destroyed the
                    first crop that she planted, and a worm cut down the next. The indigo-maker
                    brought from the West Indies tried to deceiver her afterward, but by 1745 this
                    persevering young lady had proved that indigo could be grown in South Carolina,
                    and in two years more two hundred thousand pounds of it were exported. It was a
                    leading crop for about fifty years, but, when the growing of cotton was made
                    profitable by the invention of the cotton-gin that crop took the place of
                    indigo. (See Chapter LX.)
                
                    Eliza Lucas introduces indigo-culture.
                
                Indian corn the settlers got from the Indians. It was unknown in
                    Europe. From it was made the most of the bread eaten by Americans before the
                    Revolution. It was also shipped to the West Indies from Virginia and North
                    Carolina. New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania formed the great wheat region
                    of the colonial time. These colonies sent wheat, flour, and "hard-tack" bread in
                    large quantities to the West Indies and the countries on the Mediterranean Sea.
                    Many thousands of great country wagons were employed 
                        Indian corn, wheat, and potatoes.
                    
                    
                        FLAG OF NEW YORK MERCHANT SHIPS.
                    
                     in bringing grain to Philadelphia.
                    Potatoes had been brought to Europe probably from South America; but they were
                    unknown to the Indians in what is now the United States. They were taken to
                    Virginia at the first settlement of Jamestown. Potatoes were not planted in New
                    England fields until 1718.
                Cattle and hogs were brought from England very early, and were grown
                    by thousands in the colonies. For the most part they ran in the woods, having
                    marks on them to show to whom they belonged. Many cattle grew up without marks
                    of ownership, and were hunted as wild. There were "cow-pens" established for
                    raising cattle in the wilderness, something like the "ranches" in the Western
                    country to-day. The horses of that day were small and hardy. When not in use
                    they ran at large in the woods, and some of them quite escaped from their
                    owners, so that after a while there came to be a race of wild horses. It was
                    accounted rare sport to ride after a wild horse until he was tired out, and so
                    to capture him.
                
                    Cattle, hogs, and horses.
                
                The English plow of that times was very heavy, and drawn by six
                    horses or as many oxen. Efforts were made to introduce this to the colonies, but
                    it was not suited to a new country. The plow most used in the colonies was a
                    clumsy thing, with thin plates of iron nailed over the rude wooden plowshares.
                    There were many stumps and few plows. All the tools were heavy and awkward.
                
                    Farming implements.
                
                
                    COLONIAL PLOW.
                
                The middle colonies raised wheat, the colonies on Chesapeake Bay
                    tobacco, and the Southern colonies rice  and indigo; but the soil and climate of New England were not
                    suited to any agricultural staples of great value. So the New-Englanders were
                    driven to follow the sea. They built immense numbers of ships, some of which
                    they sold to English merchants; others they used in fishing for codfish and
                    mackerel. These fisheries became very profitable to them. When the
                    Long-Islanders discovered the art of taking whales along the coast, the New
                    England people learned it, and became the most prosperous whalers in the world.
                    The products of their fisheries were sent to many countries, and New England
                    ships were seen almost all over the world. Boston and Newport were the chief New
                    England seaports.
                
                    The Pirates.Captain William Kidd, of New York, was sent out in
                        1695 to put down the pirates that infested the Indian Ocean. The expense of
                        his outfit was borne by certain gentlemen in America and England, who were
                        to share his spoils. Not falling in with any pirates, he took to piratical
                        ways himself. When he came back to America he was arrested by Lord
                        Bellemont, Governor of New York and New England, and sent to London for
                        trial and execution. In 1717, Steed Bonnet and Richard Worley, two pirates
                        with their crews, had taken possession of the mouth of Cape Fear River in
                        North Carolina, whence they committed great depredations on the commerce of
                        South Carolina. Colonel Rhett, of South Carolina, pursued Bonnet into Cape
                        Fear River, and, after a fight, captured him and thirty of his men. They
                        were tried and hanged at Charleston. Governor Johnson, of South Carolina,
                        took another vessel and attacked Richard Worley and his pirates, who fought
                        until all were dead but Worley and one man, and these were taken,
                        desperately wounded, and hanged. Blackbeard, whose real name was Teach, had
                        his refuge also in the shallow waters of the North Carolina coast. A little
                        more than a year after the overthrow of Bonnet, Lieutenant Maynard sailed
                        from Virginia and fought Blackbeard in Ocracoke Inlet. After a hand-to-hand
                        battle all the pirates were killed or wounded, and Maynard sailed back with
                        Blackbeard's head hanging at his bowsprit. So many of the pirates were
                        captured in the next half-dozen years that they gave little trouble
                        afterward.
                
                
                    ENSIGN CARRIED BY NEW ENGLAND SHIPS.
                
                
                    Fishing, whaling, and seagoing in New England.
                
                The people of New York also built many ships which were remarkable
                    for their great size and the long voyages they made. But before the Revolution
                    New York was not so large a town as Boston. Philadelphia, which was started
                    later than the other leading cities, grew fast and became the greatest of all
                    the cities in the colonies. 
                        Trade of New York and Philadelphia.
                    
                     But Philadelphia contained only
                    about thirty thousand people when the Revolution broke out.
                There were many pirates on the coast, who sometimes grew so numerous
                    and bold as to interrupt trade. Some of them were caught and hanged. Captain
                    Kidd, of New York, who was sent to put down pirates, became a pirate himself,
                    and was taken to London and there hanged. The most noted of the pirates was a
                    cruel desperado called Blackbeard, who was killed after a bloody fight in
                    Ocracoke Inlet in North Carolina. Steed Bonnet, another famous pirate, was
                    captured about the same time and executed at Charleston.
                
                    Pirates.
                
                
                    PIRATE BLACKBEARD AS SHOWN IN A PICTURE OF THE
                        TIME.
                
                What did those who came first to North America expect to find? When
                    they failed to find a way to India, or gold-mines, to what did they look for
                    profit? What was the character of their first plans for farming? In what kind of
                    countries is the raising of wine and silk profitable? What mistake did the
                    colonists make about these things? Mention some of the things which they tried
                    to cultivate. What is the name of the man who first raised tobacco in Virginia
                    to sent to England? What was the name of Rolfe's wife? What advantages did
                    Virginia have for raising and shipping this plant? What was the principal money
                    of the Virginians and Marylanders? How did the colony of South Carolina maintain
                    itself at first? Where had Thomas Smith seen rice growing? How did he get his
                    seed-rice? Where did he sow it first? What was the result? Who first introduced
                    the indigo-plant into South Carolina? What discouragements did she meet with?
                    What had she proved by 1745? What was the result? What at last drove indigo out
                    of cultivation? What was the chief bread of the colonists? Where did the
                    colonists get the Indian-corn plant? Had it been known in Europe? From what
                    colonies was Indian corn sent to the West Indies? What three colonies
                    constituted the great wheat region? Where were wheat and flour sent to in that
                    time?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                From what part of the world were potatoes taken to Europe? Were they
                    known to the natives in what is now the United States? How early were potatoes
                    first planted in Virginia? In what year were they first planted in New England?
                    Where were the first cattle and hogs in the country brought from? How were they
                    raised? Were they  numerous? What is
                    said of wild cattle? How were cattle sometimes raised away from settlements in
                    the wilderness? What were these ranches called at that time? What was the
                    character of the horses of the time? What kind of a plow was used in England
                    when America was first settled? What kind of plow was commonly used in America?
                    What was the general character of the tools used? What drove the New England
                    people to follow the sea for a living? What did they do with the great numbers
                    of ships built in New England? What kinds of fish did they catch? Who in America
                    first learned to take whales? What is said of the whale-fisheries of New
                    England? What of the trade of New England? Which were the chief seaports of New
                    England?
                What is said of the trade of New York in colony times? What of
                    Philadelphia? How many people were there in Philadelphia before the Revolution?
                    What is said of pirate before the Revolution? Where was Captain Kidd executed?
                    Where was Blackbeard killed? Where was the pirate Steed Bonnet executed?
                
                    
                        1. Products.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. The attempts to raise silk,
                                    wine, etc.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Tobacco.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c. Rice.
                            
                            
                                
                                    d. Indigo.
                            
                            
                                
                                    e. Indian corn.
                            
                            
                                
                                    f. Wheat.
                            
                            
                                
                                    g. Potatoes.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        2. Animals.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. Cattle and hogs.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Horses.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        3. Implements.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. Plows.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Other tools.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        4. Commerce.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. New England fisheries and
                                    commerce.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. Trade of New York and
                                    Philadelphia.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c. The pirates.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Chief wheat region.
                        
                            
                                New York.
                            
                            
                                New Jersey.
                            
                            
                                Pennsylvania.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Chief tobacco region.
                        
                            
                                Maryland.
                            
                            
                                Virginia.
                            
                            
                                Northern part of North Carolina.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Rice and indigo.
                        
                            
                                South Carolina.
                            
                            
                                Southern part of North Carolina.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Ship-building, fisheries, and trade.
                        
                            
                                New England colonies.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    Black board.
                
                Point our on a map the location of Madagascar and Ocracoke Inlet.
                    Point out the chief wheat region in colony times. The chief tobacco region. The
                    land of rice and indigo.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XVIII.
                Bond-Servants and Slaves in the Colonies.
                WHEN the English people came to this country they brought English
                    ways with them. In England at that time the lands of rich men were cultivated by
                    tenants, who not only paid rent, but owed much respect and service to their
                    "lord", as they called the owner of their lands. If these tenants did not pay
                    their rent faithfully, they could be punished. Many of the people sent to
                    Virginia at first were tenants, who were expected to work on other people's land
                    in a sort of subjection. They were to pay half of all they produced to the
                    land-owner, and they were bound to stay on the land for seven years. Tenants
                    were also sent to Maryland, and the Dutch established the same system in New
                    York.
                
                    Tenants.
                
                Besides tenants, there were sent to Virginia people of a poorer
                    class, who were called "indentured servants." Those sent at first were poor boys
                    and girls, bound to serve until they were of age. After a while there were sent
                    to Virginia and to New England adult servants, bound to serve for seven or ten
                    years, but afterward they were only required to serve four years to pay their
                    passage. This way of getting laborers became very common, and many thousands
                    were sent over in this temporary bondage. During the time of their bondage they
                    could be bought and sold like slaves. They were often whipped and otherwise
                    cruelly treated when they chanced to fall into the hands of hard-hearted
                    masters.
                
                    Bond-servants.
                
                
                    ENGLISH FARM LABORER, SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.
                
                
                There were people in England at that time called "spirits" and
                    "crimps." By many false stories they persuaded poor men to go to the colonies as
                    servants. Sometimes the crimps entrapped a man aboard ship, where he was
                    detained and carried off to the colonies against his will. This was called
                    "trapanning" a man. Sometimes they kidnapped or "spirited" away children, and
                    sold them into service in the colonies. Sometimes people who wished to inherit
                    an estate sent away the true heir and had him sold in America. One lad, who
                        
                        "Spirits" and "crimps."
                    
                    
                        KIDNAPPING A MAN FOR THE COLONIES.
                    
                     would have been Lord Annesley, was
                    entrapped on shipboard by his uncle and sold into Pennsylvania. He was twelve
                    years in bondage, after which he returned to England and proved his right to the
                    lordship, though he died before he came into possession of its.
                Bond-servants were in some places called "redemptioners." About 1670
                    fifteen hundred of them were sold in Virginia every year. In Pennsylvania the
                    men who took droves of redemptioners about the country and peddled them to the
                    farmers were called "soul-drivers." Many of the bond-servants, when their time
                    was out, got land and grew rich. But the lot of the poor man was much harder in
                    that time than in our day.
                
                    Great number of bond-servants or "redemptioners."
                
                The English laws in old times were very severe against small crimes.
                    A man could be hanged for stealing bread to satisfy his hunger. Many people
                    sentenced to death for small offenses were pardoned on condition of their going
                    to the colonies. In America convicts were sold for seven years. The Americans
                    complained bitterly that such bad people were forced on them.
                
                    Convict-servants.
                
                In 1969, the year that the Great Charter reached Virginia, there came
                    a Dutch ship into James River, which sold nineteen negroes to the planters. They
                    were the first slaves in America. In that day it was thought right to make
                    slaves of negroes because they were heathens; but for a long time the number of
                    slaves that came into the colonies was small. White bond-servants did the most
                    of the work in Maryland and Virginia until about the close of the seventeenth
                    century, when the high price of tobacco caused a great many negroes to be
                    brought. About the same time the introduction of rice into South Carolina
                    creatred a great demand for slaves.
                
                    Introduction of slaves.
                
                
                There were slaves in all the colonies. But in the colonies far to the
                    north there was no crop that would make their labor profitable. Negroes in New
                    England were mostly kept for house-servants. In New York city and in
                    Philadelphia there were a great many, but not many in the country regions about
                    these cities, where wheat was the chief crop for wheat did not require much hard
                    labor. The larger number of negroes were taken to the colonies which raised
                    tobacco, rice, and indigo. Negroes were especially fitted to endure a hot and
                    malarial climate. After the Revolution, slavery was abolished in the colonies
                    that had few negroes. But, where almost all the labor was done by slaves, it was
                    much harder to get rid of slavery. This led to the difference between free and
                    slave States, and at last to our civil war.
                
                    Distribution of slaves.
                
                
                    SIR JOHN WAWKINS, THE FIRST ENGLISH
                    SLAVE-TRADER.
                
                The slaves at first did not speak English, and they practiced many
                    wild African customs. Some of them were fierce, and the white people were afraid
                    of them. Great harshness was used to subdue them. The negroes often made bloody
                    insurrections, which were put down with great harshness. One of these was in New
                    York city in 1712. Twenty-four negroes were put to death on this occasion, some
                    of them in the cruel ways used in that time. In 1740 there was an uprising of
                    slaves in South Carolina, and a battle between them and the white people, in
                    which the negroes were routed. In 1714, on a bare alarm of intended
                    insurrection, thirty-three slaves were executed in New York, thirteen of them by
                    fire. Like severity was shown in other colonies, for people were more cruel in
                    that day than in later times.
                
                    Character of the slaves. Insurrections.
                
                
                What English system of cultivating land was brought to Virginia at
                    the first? What could be done with a tenant if he did not pay his rent? What
                    share of the produce of the land did the tenant pay to his lord? How long was
                    the tenant bound to stay on the land? To what other English colony were tenants
                    sent? Where did the Dutch establish the same system? What other class besides
                    tenants were sent to Virginia? What were most of these at first? What other
                    servants were after a while sent to Virginia and New England? (What is the
                    meaning of "adult"?) How long were these adult servants bound to serve? Were
                    there many or few of this sort? In what respect were these servants like slaves?
                    How were they often treated? What was the business of the people called
                    "spirits" or "crimps"? How did they sometimes send men against their will? What
                    was this called? How did they procure children to sell to the colonists? How
                    were the heirs to estates treated in some cases? Tell what happened to little
                    Lord Annesley. What were white bond-servants called? How many of these were
                    yearly sold into Virginia about 1670? What were the men called who took droves
                    of redemptioners through Pennsylvania to sell? What happened to many of these
                    servants? What was the character of the English laws against small crimes at
                    this time? What was done with some of the people who were sentenced to death for
                    petty was done with some of the people who were sentenced to death for petty
                    offenses? How long a time were the convicts sold for? What did the Americans
                    think of this plan of sending convicts to this country?
                In what year were negroes first brought to Virginia? By what kind of
                    a ship? What other notable event happened in Virginia in this year? Why was it
                    thought right to make slaves of negroes? Were many negroes brought first? Who
                    did most of the labor? What caused a great many negroes to be brought to
                    Virginia and Maryland about the close of the seventeenth century? What caused
                    many slaves to be brought to South Carolina near the same time? Why were there
                    fewer slaves in the Northern colonies than in those farther south? For what were
                    slaves mostly kept in New England? In what two cities of the middle colonies
                    were there a great many negro slaves? Were there many slaves in the country
                    regions of New York and Pennsylvania? Why not? To what colonies were the larger
                    number of negroes taken? Why was it easier to abolish slavery in the Northern
                    colonies that the Southern? What caused the difference between free and slave
                    States? What war grew out of this difference? What peculiarities had the negroes
                    when they first came? What was the character of some of them? What took place
                    among the negroes in New York in 1712? How many negroes were put to death? What
                    happened in South Carolina in 1740? What took place in New York in 1741? How
                    many were put to death? How were some of these executed? In what way did the
                    people of that time differ from people in our day?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                
                    
                        I. White tenants and servants.
                        
                            
                                1. Tenants.
                            
                            
                                2. Indentured servants.
                            
                            
                                3. Trapanning and kidnapping.
                            
                            
                                4. Redemptioners and soul-drivers.
                            
                            
                                5. Convict-servants.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Negro slaves.
                        
                            
                                1. The first slaves in 1619.
                            
                            
                                2. Increase of slaves after 1700.
                            
                            
                                3. Negro slaves at the North and at the South.
                            
                            
                                4. Character of the negroes and their treatment.
                            
                            
                                5. Negro insurrections.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XIX.
                Laws and Usages in the Colonies.
                OUR forefathers brought many curious old customs and laws from
                    England. The laws of that time were very meddlesome. Men were punished for
                    lying, which nowadays we think is only to be cured by good example and good
                    teaching. A fine was imposed on profane swearing by the laws of nearly all the
                    colonies; in New England the tongue of the swearer was sometimes pinched in the
                    opening of a split stick. In all the colonies there were laws about keeping the
                    Sabbath; in many of them there were punishments for not going to church. In New
                    England the Sunday laws were rigorously enforced, and the Sabbath was made to
                    begin at sunset on Saturday evening. The people were at first called to church
                    by beating a drum in the streets. For more than a hundred years after the
                    settlement of Massachusetts, people were not allowed to sit in Boston Common on
                    Sunday, or to walk in the streets except to church, or to take a breath of air
                    on 
                        Laws against lying, profanity, and Sabbath-breaking.
                    
                    
                     a hot Sunday by the sea-shore
                    directly in front of their own doors. Two young people were arrested in
                    Connecticut for sitting together on Sunday under a tree in an orchard.
                If men were punished for swearing, women were also forbidden to be
                    too free with their tongues. In Virginia and some other colonies women, for
                    scolding or slander, were put upon a ducking-stool and dipped in water. In New
                    England they were gagged and set by their own doors, "for all comers and goers
                    to gaze at." Drunkards were sometimes obliged to wear a red letter D about their
                    necks, and other offenses were punished by suspending a letter, or a picture, or
                    a halter about the neck.
                
                    Laws against scolding and drunkenness.
                
                
                    THE DUCKING-STOOL.
                
                Standing with the head and hands fast in the pillory, to be pelted
                    with eggs by the crowd, and sitting with the feet fast in the stocks, were forms
                    of punishment. In some places there were cages, in which criminals were confined
                    in sight of the people. Punishments 
                        Other curious punishments.
                    
                     in the pillory and stocks, or in a
                    cage, were in flicted on some occasion of public concoursea lecture day or a
                    market-dayto make the shame greater. More severe than stocks or pillory were the
                    customary punishments of whipping on the bare back, cropping or boring the ears,
                    and branding the hand with a hot iron. There were also sometimes, for great
                    crimes, cruel punishments of burning alive, or hanging alive in chains, but
                    these were very rare.
                
                    THE STOCKS.
                
                Our forefathers were more superstitious than people are now, and they
                    were very much afraid of witches. This foolish belief in witchcraft prevailed
                    both in England and America. People sometimes nailed up horseshoes, or hung up
                    laurel-boughs in their houses, to protect themselves from magic charms. When
                    butter would not come for churning, red-hot horseshoes were dropped into the
                    milk to "burn the witch out." When pigs were sick and thought to be bewitched,
                    their ears and tails were cut off and burned. There were people tried in almost
                    every colony for witchcraft. In England and in many other countries, executions
                    for witchcraft were more common than in any of the colonies.
                
                    Charms against witches.
                
                
                Of the many excitements about witchcraft in the colonies, the one
                    that went to the greatest extreme was that in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692. So
                    great was the agitation that the most serious people lost their self-possession,
                    and some poor people even believed themselves to be witches, and confessed it.
                    In the fright and indignation that prevailed, twenty people were executed, and
                    the jails were crowded with the accused. One fourth of the inhabitants of Salem
                    moved away, afraid either of the witches or of being charged with witchcraft. At
                    length reason returned to the people, the prisoners were released, and there was
                    the deepest grief that the fanaticism had gone so far. There has never been an
                    execution for witch-craft in this country from that day to this, thought there
                    are still some ignorant people who believe in such things.
                
                    The Salem witch-craft excitement.
                
                In most of the colonies there was, at some times, persecution for
                    religious opinions. In Virginia, only the Church of England form of worship was
                    allowed at first, and Catholics, Puritans, Quakers, Presbyterians, 
                        Religious persecution in the colonies.
                    
                    
                        PUNISHMENT OF A DRUNKARD.
                    
                     and Baptists were persecuted. In
                    Massachusetts, for a longtime, only the Puritan or Congregational worship, as
                    set up by law, was allowed. Those who advocated other doctrines were punished,
                    and many Quakers were whipped, and some of them even put to death for coming
                    back after they had been banished. Lord Baltimore wished to give toleration in
                    Maryland to all who believed in Christ, but the law-makers of Maryland afterward
                    made laws to annoy those who were of Lord Baltimore's own religionthe Roman
                    Catholic. Roger Williams, who was banished from Massachusetts for his opinions,
                    founded what is now called Rhode Island, on the plan of entire liberty in
                    religious matters. He went further than Lord Baltimore, and gave to Hebrews and
                    to unbelievers the same liberty with Christians. In Pennsylvania, where the
                    Friends or Quakers were in the majority, there was toleration; and persecution
                    ceased in all the colonies before the Revolution.
                What did our forefathers bring from England? What difference was
                    there between their treatment of lying and ours? How was profane swearing
                    treated? What kind of laws were there in all the colonies about the Sabbath? And
                    in nearly all about church-going? At what time did the New England Sabbath
                    begin? What examples are given of the strictness of the Sabbath law in Boston
                    for more than a hundred years? What example is given of the law in Connecticut?
                    How were women punished in some of the colonies for scolding and slander? How
                    were they punished in New England? How were drunkards punished sometimes? How
                    was a man punished in the pillory? In cages? What punishments are mentioned as
                    more severe than the pillory or the cage? What very cruel punishments were
                    sometimes visited on great crimes? What is said of the superstitiousness of our
                    forefathers? What did people do in former times to keep off the evil charms of
                    witches? When they thought that the chruning of milk was bewitched, what did
                    they do? What did they do in the case of bewitched 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     pigs? What is said of witcheraft
                    trails in nearly all the colonies? In England? Where was the worst of all the
                    witchcraft excitements in America? In what year? What was the effect of the
                    agitation? How many people were executed? Were these all who were accused? What
                    was the effect on the population of Salem? When reason returned to the people,
                    what was done? How did they feel about it? Has there ever been an execution for
                    witchcraft in this country since? Was religious persecution common in the
                    colonies? What form of religion was established in Virginia? What denominations
                    were persecuted there? What was the established religion in Massachusetts? What
                    was done to the advocates of other doctrines? What happened to Quakers in
                    Massachusetts? What did Lord Baltimore wish to do in the matter of religious
                    toleration? What did the law-makers of Maryland afterward do? From what colony
                    was Roger Williams banished? What colony did he found? On what plan did he
                    establish it? How did he go further than Lord Baltimore? Was there persecution
                    in Pennsylvania? What religious denomination held control there? How had they
                    been treated in the other colonies? What change took place in the matter of
                    persecution, before the Revolution?
                
                    
                        I. Laws against lying, swearing, Sabbath-breaking, scolding,
                            and drunkenness.
                    
                    
                        II. Old-fashioned punishments.
                    
                    
                        III. Superstitions.
                        
                            
                                1. The fear of witches.
                            
                            
                                2. The Salem witchcraft delusion.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Religious persecution.
                        
                            
                                1. Persecution in Virginia.
                            
                            
                                2. Persecution in Massachusetts.
                            
                            
                                3. Lord Baltimore's plan for Maryland.
                            
                            
                                4. Roger Williams and Rhode Island.
                            
                            
                                5. Toleration in Pennsylvania.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    SECOND REVIEW.LIFE IN THE COLONIES.
                     First Division: The Indians and the White People.
                
                    
                        I. Indian life. (Chapter XIII.)
                        
                            
                                1. Appearance and dress of the Indians.
                            
                            
                                2. Their houses, furniture, and food.
                            
                            
                                3. There occupations and tools.
                            
                            
                                4. Their trade with white men.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        II. Their wars with the white people (Chapter XIV.)
                        
                            
                                1. The first massacre and war in Virginia.
                            
                            
                                2. The Pequotwar.
                            
                            
                                3. King Philip's war.
                            
                            
                                4. Bacon's war in Virginia.
                            
                            
                                5. Wars in South and North Carolina.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Methods of early Indian war. (Chapter XV.)
                        
                            
                                1. The primitive weapons of the Indians.
                            
                            
                                2. Pikes, matchlock-guns, and armor of the white
                                man.
                            
                            
                                3. Change of arms by Indians and white men.
                            
                            
                                4. Indian modes of fighting.
                            
                            
                                5. Captives among the Indians.
                            
                            
                                6. How settlers defended themselves.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Second Division: Life and Labor among the
                    Colonists.
                
                
                    
                        I. Home-life in the colonies. (Chapter XVI)
                        
                            
                                1. Various sorts of houses.
                            
                            
                                2. Furniture.
                            
                            
                                3. Food and drinks.
                            
                            
                                4. Dress.
                            
                            
                                5. Modes of travel and of carrying freight.
                            
                            
                                6. Education.
                            
                            
                                7. Amusements.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Farming and commerce in the colonies. (Chapter XVII.)
                        
                            
                                1. Silk, wine, and other experiments.
                            
                            
                                2. Tobacco-raising.
                            
                            
                                3. Rice and indigo.
                            
                            
                                4. Corn, wheat, and potatoes.
                            
                            
                                5. Cattle, hogs, horses.
                            
                            
                                6. Farming-utensils.
                            
                            
                                7. Commerce and fisheries.
                            
                            
                                8. Pirates.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Bond-servants and slaves. (Chapter XVIII.)
                        
                            
                                1. Tenants
                            
                            
                                2. Bond-servants, crimps, etc.
                            
                            
                                3. Convict-servants.
                            
                            
                                4. Slaves.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Introduction of them,
                                            1619.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Distribution of
                                            slaves.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. Insurrections and
                                            punishments.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Laws and customs. (Chapter XIX.)
                        
                            
                                1. Sabbath laws.
                            
                            
                                2. Curious punishments.
                            
                            
                                3. Laws about witchcraft. The Salem excitement.
                            
                            
                                4. Persecution for religion.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XX.
                The Spanish in Florida and the French in
                    Canada.
                THE English were not the only people
                    who had colonies in North America. The Spaniards, who claimed the whole
                    continent, had planted a colony at Saint Au'-gus-tine, in Florida, in 1565,
                    forty-two years before the first permanent English colony landed at Jamestown.
                    Saint Augustine is thus the oldest city in the United States. But the Spaniards
                    were too busy in Mexico and in Central and South America to push their
                    settlements farther to the north, though they were very jealous of the English
                    colonies, and especially of South Carolina and Georgia.
                
                    The Spanish colony in Florida.
                
                The French laid claim also to a large part of North America. They
                    tried to plant a colony in Canada in 1549, and after ward made some other
                    attempts that failed. Quebec [kwebec'] was founded by 
                        Spanish Discoveries in Florida. Ponce de Leon[p'-thay day
                            lay-n; commonly in English, ponss deh lee' -on], an old Spanish
                            explorer, set sail in 1513 from the island of Porto Rico, to discover a
                            land reported to lie to the northward of Cuba, and which had somehow
                            come to be called Bimini [bee-mee-nee]. It was said to contain a
                            fountain, by bathing in which an old man would be made young again. On
                            Easter Sunday Ponce discovered the mainland, which he called Florida,
                            from Pascua Florida [pas'-kwah floree'-dah], the Spanish name for Easter
                            Sunday. In 1512 Ponce tried to settle Florida, but his party was
                            attacked and he was mortally wounded by the Indians. Florida was then
                            believed to be an island. After his death, other Spanish adventures
                            explored the coast from Labrador southward, and even tried to find
                            goldmines, and plant colonies in the interior of the country. The most
                            famous of these expeditions was that of Hernanado de Soto [aer-nan' -do
                            day so' -to], a Spanish explorer, who reached Florida in 1539. He
                            marched through Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi. He was determined to
                            find some land yielding gold, like Mexico and Peru. But he treated the
                            Indians cruelly, killing some of them wantonly, and forcing others to
                            serve him as slaves. The savages, in turn, attacked him again and again,
                            until his party was sadly reduced. De Soto tried to descend the
                            Mississippi River to the Gulf of Mexico, but at the mouth of the Gulf of
                            Mexico, but at the mouth of the Red River he died of a fever. His body
                            was buried in the Mississippi, to keep the Indians from disfiguring it
                            in revenge. A few of his followers reached the Gulf and got to the
                            Spanish settlements in Mexico.
                    
                    
                        Founding of Qubec by Champlain.
                    
                    
                        CHAMPLAIN.
                    
                     a great French explorer, Champlain,
                    in 1608, the very year after the English settled at Jamestown. At Quebec the
                    real settlement of Canada was begun, and it was always the capital of the vast
                    establishments of the French in America.
                The French, like the English, were trying to find the Pacific Ocean,
                    and they were much more daring in their explorations than the English colonists,
                    whose chief business was farming. A French explorer named Joliet [zhl-yay]
                    reached the Mississippi in 1673, and another Frenchman, La Salle [lah-sahl],
                    explored the great country west of the Alleghany Mountains, and discovered the
                    Ohio. After many disasters and failures, La Salle succeeded in reaching the
                    mouth of the Mississippi. Father Hennepin, a priest, explored the upper
                    Mississippi. The French then laid claim to all the country west of the
                    Alleghanies. Over the region they established posts and mission-houses, while
                    the English contented themselves with multiplying their farming settlements east
                    of the mountains.
                
                    French explorations in the interior.
                
                
                    LA SALLE.
                
                When La Salle reached the mouth of the Mississippi he took possession
                    of the country in the name of Louis XIV., and called it Louisiana, in honor of
                    that king. The settlement of Louisiana was begun in 1699. The French held the
                    St. Lawrence and the Mississippi, the two great water-ways of North America, and
                    they controlled most of the Indian tribes by means of missionaries and traders.
                    They endeavored to connect Canada and Louisiana by a chain of fortified posts,
                    and so to 
                        Founding of Louisiana and of French posts among the
                        Indians.
                    
                     hold for France an empire, in the
                    heart of America, larger than France itself.
                But the weakness of the French in America lay in the fewness of their
                    people. Canada, the oldest of their colonies, was in a country too cold to be a
                    prosperous farming country in that day. Besides, its growths was checked by the
                    system of lordships with tenants, which some of the English colonies had also
                    tried. But inferior as the French were in numbers, they were strong in their
                    military character; they were almost all soldiers. The English were divided in
                    to colonies, and could never be made to act together; but the French from Canada
                    to the Mississippi, were absolutely subjected to their governors.
                
                    Weakness and strength of the French in America.
                
                
                    FRENCH GENTLEMAN OF THE TIME.
                
                The French were also rendered terrible to the English colonies by
                    their skill in controlling the Indians. The great business of the French in
                    Canada was the furtrade, and this was pushed with an energy that quite left the
                    English traders behind. The French drew furs from the shores of Lake Superior
                    and from beyond the Mississippi. The French traders gained great influence over
                    the Indians. The English treated the Indians as inferiors, the French lived
                    among them on themes of equality. The French also gained control of the Indian
                    tribes by means of missionary priests, who risked their lives and spent their
                    days in the dirty cabins of the savages to teach them religion. The powerful
                    Iroquois confederacy, known as the "Five Nations," and afterward as the "Six
                    Nations," sided with the English, and hated and killed the French. They lived in
                    what is now the State of New York. But the most of the tribes were managed by
                    the French, who sent missionaries to convert them ambassadors 
                        The French influence over the Indians.
                    
                    
                        A MISSIONARY PRIEST.
                    
                     to flatter them, gunsmiths to ment
                    their arms, and military men to teach them to fortify, and to direct their
                    attacks against the settlements of the English.
                The wars between the French colony in Canada and the English colonies
                    in what is now the United States were caused partly by wars between France and
                    England in Europe. But there were also causes enough for enmity in the state of
                    affairs on this side of the ocean. First, there was always a quarrel about
                    territory. The French claimed that part of what is now the State of Maine which
                    lies east of the Kennebec River, while the English claimed to the St. Croix. The
                    French also claimed all the country back of the Alleghanies. With a population
                    not more than one twentieth of the of one of the English colonies, they spread
                    their claim over all the country watered by the lakes and the tributaries of the
                    Mississippi, including more than half of the present United States. Second, both
                    France and England wished to control the fisheries of the eastern coast. Third,
                    both the French and the English endeavored to get the entire control of the
                    fur-trade. To do this the French tried to win the Iroquois Confederacy to their
                    interest, while the English sought to take the trade of the Western tribes away
                    from the French. Fourth, the French were Catholics and the English mostly
                    Protestants. In that age men were very bigoted about religion, and hated and
                    feared those who differed from them.
                
                    Subjects of dispute between the French and English in
                    America.
                
                
                    COUREUR DES BOIS OR WANDERING FUR-TRADER, OF
                        CANADA.
                
                
                    LONG-HOUSE OF THE IROQUOIS.
                
                
                When did the Spaniards plant a colony in Florida? Whereabouts in
                    Florida did the Spaniards first settle? Which is the oldest city in the United
                    States? How long before the settlement at Jamestown was St. Augustine settled?
                    How long before the settlement at Jamestown was St. Augustine settled? [Subtract
                    1565 from 1607.] Why did the Spaniards not push their settlements farther to the
                    north? What feelings did they have about South Carolina and Georgia? How much of
                    North America did Spain claim? Where was the beginning of permanent French
                    settlements in America made? By whom was Quebec founded? In what years? How long
                    was this after English settlement at Jamestown? What was the capital and center
                    of the French establishments in America?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What were the French trying to find? How did their explorations
                    compare with those of the English? What was the chief business of the people in
                    the English colonies? Who discovered the Mississippi in 1673? Who first explored
                    the Ohio River? Who descended the Mississippi to its mouth? (What large city is
                    now situated near the mouth of the Mississippi?) What is the name of the priest
                    who first explored the upper Mississippi? To what part of this country did the
                    French lay claim? What did they establish here? What were the English colonists
                    doing at this time? What did La Salle call the country at the mouth of the
                    Mississippi? In honor of what king did he thus call it? When was the settlement
                    of Louisiana begun? What two great water-ways did the French control at this
                    time? How did they propose to connect Canada and Louisiana? What would they thus
                    hold for France?
                What was the weakness of the French power in America? Why was Canada
                    not a prosperous farming country? What held its growth in check? How were the
                    French strong? Which were the most united, the English or the French, in
                    America? What besides this rendered the French terrible to the English? What was
                    the chief business of the French in Canada? From how far to the west did they
                    get furs? What difference was there in the French and the English way of
                    treating the Indians? What is said of the missionary priests? What powerful
                    Indian nation held to the English? How did the French control most of the other
                    tribes?
                How were many of the wars between the French and English in America
                    caused? But, besides these quarrels between the two countries in Europe, there
                    were causes of strife in America: what is the first one named? What part of
                    Maine did the French claim? (Look on the map and say about what proportion of
                    the State lies east of the Kennebec 
                        FRENCH CLAIM IN THE PRESENT STATE OF MAINE.
                    
                     River.) What other territory did
                    they claim in what is now the United States? In what way were the fisheries a
                    source of enmity? How was the fur-trade a matter of conflict? How did the French
                    try to get entire control of it? How did the English seek to get it? What
                    religious ground for opposition between the two was there? What was the
                    character of religious differences in that day?
                
                    
                        1. The Spanish colony at St. Augustine. 1565.
                    
                    
                        2. The French colony at Quebec. 1608.
                    
                    
                        3. The French explore the Mississippi.
                    
                    
                        4. Louisiana settled. 1699.
                    
                    
                        5. Weakness and strength of the French in America.
                    
                    
                        6. French influence over the Indians.
                    
                    
                        7. Causes of war between the French and English in
                        America.
                    
                
                St. Augustine in was planted by the in 1567,years before Jamestown
                    was settled. The oldest city in the United States is. The beginning of permanent
                    French settlement in America was made at in , one year after Jamestown was
                    settled. Quebec was founded by . The Ohio was discovered by . The Mississippi
                    was explored to its mouth by , who called the country after Louis XIV, king of
                    France. Louisiana was settled in . The French controlled at this time two great
                    water-ways from the sea to the heart of the continentthe river and the river .
                
                    
                        St. Augustine
                        
                            
                                in
                            
                            
                                Florida
                                
                                    
                                        founded by
                                    
                                    
                                        Spaniards, 1565.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Jamestown
                        
                            
                                in
                            
                            
                                Virginia
                                
                                    
                                        founded by
                                    
                                    
                                        English, 1607.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Quebec
                        
                            
                                in
                            
                            
                                Canada
                                
                                    
                                        founded by
                                    
                                    
                                        French, 1608.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                
                    PRESENT TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES, SHOWING BY
                        WHOM IT WAS CLAIMED BEFORE 1763.
                
                
                Let the pupil, on a map of the United States, point out the St.
                    Lawrence and the Mississippi, as two roads leading to the heart of America. Let
                    him show how the French and Spanish territory quite surrounded the English
                    colonies on all but their ocean side, and stopped their growth to the westward.
                    Point out Florida and St. Augustine. Point out Quebec. Point out the mouth of
                    the Mississippi.
                Parkman's "Poineers of France in America."
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXI.
                Colonial Wars with France and Spain.
                THERE were four wars with the French during the colonial time. The
                    first was called "King William's War," from William III, King of England. It
                    lasted from 1689 to 1697. In this war the first severe blow fell on the
                    settlements of Maine, where the Indians in the French interest attacked the
                    settlers in June, 1689, paying old grudges by torturing their victims. But the
                    French did not escape. The Iroquois Indians were in alliance with the English,
                    and had, besides their own reasons for taking revenge on the French. In this
                    same summer of 1689 they attacked the settlements about Montreal at daybreak,
                    and killed, in their horrible way, two hundred people, and carried as many more
                    into captivity.
                
                    "King William's War" begun.
                
                The French replied, not by assailing the Indians, but by carrying
                    fire and massacre into the province of New York. In the bitter weather of
                    January, 1690, a party of one hundred and ten, French and Indians, having
                    traveled through frozen forests for any days, entered Schenectady
                    [sken-ec'-ta-dy] at midnight and massacred sixty of its people. Those who
                    escaped fled half naked through the snow to Albany, sixteen miles 
                        French and Indians attack Schenectady and other places.
                    
                     away. Another party, from Canada,
                    fell on the settlement at Salmon Falls, N. H., and third carried the like
                    horrors to Casco Bay, in Maine. All the people on the frontier of the Northern
                    colonies were now in terror.
                To meet the danger, some sort of united action among the colonies was
                    necessary. A congress of commissioners from several colonies met in New York, in
                    1690, and planned an invasion of Canada. In accordance with this plan, Sir
                    William Phips took Port Royal, in Nova Scotia. Two expeditions were sent against
                    Quebec: the one from New York and Connecticut went by Lakes George and
                    Champlain; the other, from Boston, under Sir William Phips, was sent in a fleet
                    of thirty-four ships. The land expedition was a failure, and never even reached
                    Canada. The fleet reached Quebec, but failed to capture it.
                
                    First united action of the colonies.
                
                But peter Schuyler, of Albany, a man much beloved by the Iroquois,
                    who called him "Quider," led an expedition, in 1696, into the French
                    settlements. He did what he could to prevent Indian cruelties. But the war was
                    made up of barbarities and miseries without result, until peace between France
                    and England, in 1697, brought a little welcome repose to the colonists of both
                    nations, after eight years of war.
                
                    Colonel Schuyler's expedition against the
                    French.
                
                
                In 1702 began the war known as "Queen Annes's War." In this war
                    England fought against Spain as well as France. South Caroliana was involved in
                    a war with the Spaniards and Indians of Florida, while the Northern colonies
                    were struggling against Canada. The Governor of South Carolina made successful
                    inroads upon the Florida Indians, but he could not capture St. Augustine. Port
                    Royal, in Nova Scotia, was again taken from the French in 1710, but the attempts
                    made to take Quebec were once more a failure. The war was chiefly notable for
                    the horrible onslaughts of the Canada Indians on some of the towns of the
                    Northern frontier. Deerfield, in western Massachusetts, was destroyed in 1704,
                    and more than a hundred of its people carried into captivity. The war lasted
                    about eleven years. A treaty was made in 1713, and there was a long peace
                    between France and England. But the intrigues of both powers with the savages
                    continued, and New England had many bloody engagements with the Indians of
                    Maine, who were under the influence of the French.
                
                    Queen Anne's War."
                
                
                    QUEEN ANNE.
                
                In 1740, during a war with Spain, General Oglethorpe, the founder of
                    Georgia, tried to conquer Florida, but the fortifications of St. Augustine were
                    too strong for him. Two years later the Spaniards invaded Georgia, but
                    Oglethorpe manoeuvred his little force with so much skill as to lead the Spanish
                    into ambuscades and defeat them at every point.
                In 1744 the war between England and France, known as "King George's
                    War," began. At that time many French privateers were sent out to plunder New
                        
                        Oglethrope and the Spanish in Florida.
                    
                    
                        "King George's War" and the first capture of Louisbourg.
                    
                     England ships. These privateers came
                    out of Louisbourg [loo-ee-boorg], a French stronghold on Cape Breton Island.
                    Governor Shirley, of Massachusetts, sent against this place four thousand
                    untrained New England militia. They were commanded by a merchant, and their
                    officers did not know even the meaning of military terms. But they made up in
                    courage and enthusiasm for their inexperience. The 
                        GATEWAY AT ST. SUGUSTINE.
                    
                     Americans had few cannon, but their
                    favorite amusement had always been target-shooting, and the deadly skill with
                    which they used their muskets made it almost impossible for the French to work
                    their guns. The excitement over this contest put a stop to almost all kinds of
                    business in the Eastern colonies, and when at length the powerful fortress
                    surrendered to a little army of farmers and mechanics, there was no end of joy
                    in New England. This was the chief victory of the war, and it gave the American
                    troops confidence in themselves. At the close of the war, in 1748, England
                    returned the place again to the French, in exchange for advantages elsewhere.
                    This was a bitter disappointment to the New-Englanders, who called the day of
                    its surrender a "black day to be forever bloted out of New Englandcalendars."
                How many wars were there with the French during the colonial time?
                    What was the first of these called? In what year did it begin? In what year did
                    it end? (Subtract 1689 from 1697: about how many years did it continue?) Where
                    was the first severe blow felt? Who attacked the settlements of Maine? How did
                    the Indians of Maine pay old grudges against the settlers? Who struck the first
                    blow against the French? How many people did the Iroquois kill about Montreal?
                    How many did they take prisoners? How did the French reply to this blow? What
                    town did they attack in New York? What became of the people of Schenectady? What
                    place was attacked by another party from Canada? Where did a third party strike?
                    What were the feelings of people in the frontier towns at this time? What was
                    necessary to meet the danger? Where did the commissioners from the various
                    colonies meet? In what year did the first united action take place? What did the
                    commissioners plan? What place was taken from the French by Sir William Phips?
                    How many expeditions were sent against Quebec? By what route did the troops from
                    New York and Connecticut try to go? How was the Massachusetts expedition sent?
                    What was the result of the expedition sent by the lakes? What did the fleet do?
                    Who led an expedition into the French settlements 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     in 1969? Where did Schuyler live?
                    How was he regarded by the Iroquois? What did the Indians call him? What did he
                    do with reference to Indian cruelties? But what was the character of the war? In
                    What year did France and England make peace?
                In what year did Queen Anne's War break out? What other country
                    besides France did England have war with at this time? What colony was involved
                    in a struggle with the Spaniards? What did the Governor of South Carolina do?
                    What town in Nova Scotia was taken? What was the result of a new attempt to take
                    Quebec? For what was the war chiefly notable? What happened at the destruction
                    of Deerfield in 1704? How long did the war last? In what year was peace made?
                    Was this a long or short peace? But what disturbed the repose of the colonies
                    during this peace?
                What did General Oglethorpe do in 1740? What happened when the
                    Spaniards attacked Georgia ten years later? In what year did King George's War
                    begin? From what port were French privateers sent out to destroy New England
                    ships? Where was Louisbourg? (Where is Cape Breton Island?) How many men did
                    Governor 
                        OLD HOUSE AT DEERFIELD.
                    
                     Shirley, of Massachusetts, send
                    against this place? What kind of men were they? What kind of officers did they
                    have? How did these soldiers make up for their inexperience? What had been their
                    favorite amusement? What was the effect of their marksmanship? When the place
                    surrendered, what was the feeling in new England? What proportion of the New
                    England men lost their lives? What was the effect of the victory on the American
                    troops? What was the feeling in New England when Louisbourg was returned to the
                    French in 1748?
                
                    
                        I. King William's War. 1689 to 1697.
                        
                            
                                1. The first blows.
                            
                            
                                2. The attacks on Schenectady and other places.
                            
                            
                                3. The attempt to take Quebec.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Queen Anne's War.
                        
                            
                                1. Florida attacked from South Carolina.
                            
                            
                                2. Attacks on Canada.
                            
                            
                                3. Massacres on the Northern frontier.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Oglethrpe's attack on Florida.
                    
                    
                        IV. The third French war, or King Geroge's War. 1744 to 1748.
                        
                            
                                1. The taking of Louisbourg.
                            
                            
                                2. Its return to the French.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    GEORGIA AND FLORIDA AS THEY WERE IN OGLETHORPE'S
                        TIME.
                
                The geographical points to be fixed in the pupil's mind by reference
                    to maps are 1. The French claim in Maine. (Is the region east of the Kennebec
                    about two thirds or about three fourths of Maine?) 2. The French claim to the
                    Mississippi Valley. (Let the pupil, after examining a map of the United States,
                    decide whether the portion of our country drained by rivers flowing into the
                    Mississippi is less or more than one half.) 3. The position of Cape Breton and
                    Louisbourg. 4. By what course would fleets sailing from Boston have to go to
                    reach Quebec? 5. Let the pupil point out on a map the route to Canada and Quebec
                    by the way of Lakes George and Champlain. 6. Relative position of Georgia and
                    Florida.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXII.
                Braddock's Defeat and the Expulsion of the
                    Acadians.
                THE French made use of the years that
                    intervened between the peace of 1748 and the outbreak of hostilities in 1754 to
                    draw a line of posts along the Ohio 
                        Washington sent to protest against the French forts.
                    
                     and near to the Alleghany Mountains,
                    intending to confine the English to the country east of the Alleghenies, and to
                    secure to themselves the whole of the great interior valley. This was especially
                    exasperating to Virginia, which claimed the western country. George Washington,
                    then a young man of twenty-one, who had already spent much time on the frontier
                    as a surveyor, was sent into the wilderness by the Governor of Virginia as an
                    ambassador to urge the French to depart peaceably. This errand the athletic and
                    cool-headed young man accomplished, in spite of great hardships and dangers.
                
                    Washington's Embassy. The French officers were very much
                        impressed by Washington, and showed him many courtesies, though they tried
                        to persuade his Indians to leave him. On his return a French Indian tried to
                        kill him by firing at him, and then pretending that his gun had gone off
                        accidentally. The Indian was caught, and Washington's companion, Gist, would
                        have killed him, but Washington let him go. But he and Gist were obliged to
                        travel on foot all night and all the next day to avoid pursuit. They found
                        the Alleghany River filled with floating ice. They tried to cross on a raft,
                        but the ice caught the pole with which Washington was pushing and threw him
                        into the river. He caught hold of the raft and drew himself out. They were
                        obliged to pass the night on an island, and Gist was badly frost-bitten.
                        Washington got back to Williamsburg, the capital of Virginia, in January,
                        and the story of his adventures and of the French encroachments agitated the
                        Virginians.
                
                In the next year1754Washington was sent as a major at the head of
                    some troops to dislodge the French, who had built a post at the head of the
                    Ohio, where Pittsburg now stands. This they called Fort Duquesne [du-ken].
                    Washington found the French too strong for his force, but, by surprising and
                    defeating a skulking party of them, he brought on the war, which the French
                    wished to postpone. Washington was himself afterward attacked by a superior
                    force, and compelled to capitulate and retire from the disputed ground.
                In 1755 General Braddock, an English officer, marched from Virginia
                    in command of an army of English 
                        Braddock's expedition.
                    
                     regulars and colonial militia, to
                    drive the French from Fort Duquesne. Braddock was brave and honest, but harsh
                    and brutal in manners. He could not understand the nature of a war in the woods.
                    Like other English officers of the time, he despised the American militia and
                    their half-Indian way of fighting.
                When only eight miles from Fort Duquesne, the French and Indians
                    attacked Braddock's army. The scarlet coats and solid ranks were a good target,
                    and the soldiers were mowed down by the deadly fire that came from trees and
                    gullies where no enemy was to be seen. The British soldiers, though brave enough
                    were unused to such warfare, and unable to do anything to repel the unseen foe.
                    After standing huddled together for three hours, they broke and fled. The
                    Virginians, whom Braddock had 
                        Braddock attacked.
                    
                    
                        YOUNG WASHINGTON RALLYING BRADDOCK'S
                        TROOPS.
                    
                     despised, had stood their ground for
                    a while, fighting behind trees like the Indians; but Braddock, esteeming this
                    cowardly, ordered them to "come out in the open field like Englishmen," and even
                    struck some of them with the back of his sword.
                General Braddock exposed himself fearlessly. He had four horses
                    killed under him, and was on the fifth when he was mortally wounded. George
                    Washington, who was the only officer on Braddock's staff not killed or wounded,
                    behaved with admirable courage. He had two horses shot under him, and four
                    bullets pierced his clothes. Nearly all the officers of Braddock's army were
                    killed or wounded, and the soldiers who escaped the slaughter fled back to Fort
                    Cumberland in a wild panic.
                
                    Braddock defeated and killed.
                
                In the same summer with Braddock's defeat came the removal of the
                    Acadians. Acadia was the name of the region now included in the provinces of
                    Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. It had been settled by the French about one
                    hundred years when the English conquered it in 1710, during Queen Anne's War.
                    The people were a very ignorant peasantry, who continued to speak French and to
                    take sides secretly with their own nation in every struggle between the two
                    countries, thought they had lived forty-five years under English rule. In this
                    war the hard resolution was taken to scatter the Acadians through the various
                    English colonies. They were seized and put on board vessels and sent away; their
                    houses and barns were burned, and their lands confiscated. Some of them got to
                    Louisiana, some to Canada, and some, after great hardships, made their way back
                    to Acadia; others were scattered in various places, and their suffering have
                    excited pity even to our own times, and 
                        Expulsion of the Acadians.
                    
                     have been made the subject of
                    Longfellow's poem of "Evangeline."
                Almost the whole of this year's operations of the British and
                    colonial troops ended in failure. Sir William Johnson was sent to capture Crown
                    Point a French fort on Lake Champlain. His raw forces succeeded in beating off
                    the French in the battle of Lake George, but Johnson, who was no soldier, did
                    not even attempt to go farther, and Crown Point was not attacked. General
                    Shirley set out to capture the French fort at Niagara, but he was outgeneraled
                    by the French, and did not reach it.
                
                    SIR WILLIAM JOHNOSN.
                
                
                    Battle of Lake George. George of Johnson's and Shireley's
                        expeditions.
                
                The states men who governed in England at this time were very
                    incompetent. The colonies were divided by factions and jealousies, and the war
                    in America was carried on with half-heartendness and stupidity.
                
                    Bad management of the war.
                
                Lord Loudon [low'-den] was sent, in 1756, to command the troops in
                    America. He laid siege to Louisbourg in 1757, but failed to take it. For this
                    movement he drew away many of the troops that had protected the New York
                    frontier. Aware of this, the French, under Montrcalm [mont-cahm], besieged and
                    captured Fort William Henry, at the south end of Lake George. By the terms of
                    capitulation the colonial troops were to be allowed to return home, but after
                    they had surrendered the fort the Indian allies of the French fell on them and
                    killed a great many. Other they seized and carried off.
                
                    LORD LOUOON.
                
                
                    Capture of Fort William Henry, and massacre of part of the
                        garrison.
                
                
                How did the French make use of the years of peace that followed King
                    George's War? What did they wish to secure? What colony claimed the country west
                    of the Alleghany Mountains? Who was sent into the wilderness by the Governor of
                    Virginia? What was he sent for? The following year Washington was again sent
                    into the wilderness: in what capacity? What was he expected to do? Where had the
                    French built a fort? What did they call it? Why did not Washington succeed in
                    dislodging the French? What did he do to a skulking party? What was the effect
                    of this? Did the French wish for war at this time? When the French attacked
                    Washington, what was the result? Who commanded an expedition against Fort
                    Duquesne in 1755? What kind of a man was General Braddock? What kind of a war
                    was it that he could not understand? How did he regard the American militia? How
                    did he have them drilled? How far was he from Fort Duquesne when he was
                    attacked? By whom was he attacked? What made Braddock's men good targets? What
                    did the British soldiers do? What did the Virginians do? Why would not General
                    Braddock let them fight from behind trees? How did Braddock behave? What was his
                    fate? How did Washington behave? What was the fate of nearly all the officers?
                    What became of the remainder of the army? What region of country was called
                    Acadia? How long had the French been settled 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                     there when the English conquered it?
                    In what war was it taken from the English? What sort of people were the
                    Acadians? Which side did they take secretly in the wars between the two
                    countries? How long did they live under English rule in Acadia? What hard
                    resolution was taken? What was done with them? What was done with their houses?
                    What disposition was made of their lands? (What is the meaning of the word
                    confiscated?) What became of the Acadians? What poem treats of their sorrows?
                What French post did Sir William Johnson try to capture? On what lake
                    is Crown Point? In what battle did Johnson's troops beat the French? Did Johnson
                    attack Crown Point? What fort did General Shirley try to capture? Did he
                    succeed?
                What kind of statesmen were those in power in England at this time?
                    What was the state of the colonies? How was the American war carried on?
                Who was sent to take command in 1756? What French Stronghold did he
                    besiege? (Who had taken Louisbourg from the French before? When had it been
                    given back? See Chapter XXI.) What advantage did the French take of the
                    weakening of the forces on the New York frontier? Who commanded the French when
                    they took Fort William Henry? What were the colonial troops to be allowed to do?
                    But what happened after the surrender?
                What can you tell about 
                        
                            1. The beginning of the war.
                        
                        
                            2. Braddock's defeat.
                        
                        
                            3. The removal of the Acadians.
                        
                        
                            4. The failure to take Crown Point and Niagara.
                        
                        
                            5. The surrender of Fort William Henry, and the treachery
                                that followed.
                        
                    
                
                
                    THE DOTTED LINE SHOWS BRADDOCK'S MARCH FROM FORT
                        CUMBERLAND, ON THE POTOMAC, TOWARD FORT DUQUESNE.
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                
                A young man named was sent to protest against the occupation of the
                    country west of the Alleghanies by the . Washington was afterward sent to drive
                    the French from Fort, at the forks of the River , where the city of now stands,
                    but was forced to retire. In 1755 General marched against Fort Duquesne. He was
                    attacked and his army . Braddock was . The were removed from their homes in the
                    same year. Sir William Johnson defeated the French in the Battle of Lake , but
                    failed to take the fort at . General Shirley failed to take the fort at . In
                    1757 Lord Loudon laid siege to , but failed to take it. The French general,
                    Montcalm, attacked Fort , on Lake , and captured it.
                The various works of Francis Parkman for a history of the French in
                    Canada and their wars, and Irving's "Life of Washington."
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIII.
                Fall of Canada.
                WILLIAM PITT, afterward Earl of Chatham, became Prime Minister of England. He
                    made great changes in the conduct of the war in America. He was resolved,
                    indeed, to take Canada, and to drive the French out of America. He chose his
                    commanders with care, and from the time he came to power the English colonies
                    began to feel some hope of getting rid of the enemy that had so long sent the
                    Indians, like wolves, to destroy the defenseless settlements.
                
                    Pitt conducts the war against France with vigor.
                
                
                    WILLIAM PITT.
                
                In 1758 the English, under Amherst, again laid siege to Louisbourg,
                    that great fortress which New-Englanders had once captured. After a siege by sea
                    and land, lasting nearly two months, and much hard fighting, the town
                    surrendered.
                
                    Capture of Louisbourg by Amherst. 1758.
                
                
                    AMHERST.
                
                
                In September of this same year the French fort, called Frontenac,
                    which stood where the town of Kingston in Canada now stands, and controlled Lake
                    Ontario, was taken by an English expedition.
                
                    Capture of Fort Frontenac.
                
                General Forbes, though so sick with a painful and mortal illness that
                    he had to be carried on a litter, cut a road through the thick forests on the
                    Pennsylvania mountains, marched to the Ohio, and forced the French to abandon
                    Fort Duquesne. The English established a fort here and called the place
                    Pittsburg, in honor of the great prime minister who had turned the current of
                    the war from defeat to victory.
                
                    General Forbes obliges the French to abandon Fort Duquesne.
                        Pittsburg founded.
                
                The English army in America suffered one considerable defeat at Fort
                    Ticonderoga, on Lake Champlain. General Abercromby had sailed down Lake George
                    and marched through the woods to attack Montcalm, at Ticonderoga. The English
                    and colonial troops tried to carry the French works by 
                        Robert Rogers and the Rangers. The perils of the frontier led
                            to the formation of companies of rangers, who fought the Indians in
                            their own way. Robert Rogers became very famous for his daring
                            expeditions in the region about Lake George. He had many desperate
                            fights with the French. He and his men journeyed on skates or snow-shoes
                            in winter, and in light whale-boats or afoot in summer. His main objects
                            were to capture prisoners for information and to annoy the enemy. Once,
                            with fifty men, he carried his light whale-boats six miles over a
                            mountain-gorge, from near the middle of Lake George to the waters of
                            Lake Champlain, and then rowed with muffled oars under the French fort
                            at Ticonderoga, so close as to hear the sentries give the watchword, and
                            then passed the fort at Crown Point in the same way. He captured and
                            sunk two sloops laden with provisions, hid his boats, and got back afoot
                            to Lake George. Then he returned and reconnoitred Lake Champlain in his
                            boats, captured some prisoners, and again hid his boats. This time the
                            French found his boats, and sent out scouts to find some water-passage
                            by which the boats could have come into Lake Champlain, not suspecting
                            that they could have been carried over. Rogers, with five men, once
                            walked coolly up to a sentinel near the French fort. When challenged, he
                            answered in French. Then, when he had demanded, in amazement, "Who are
                            you?" He answered, "Rogers," and took him prisoner. There is a tradition
                            that, in escaping from the Indians, he threw his packs down a steep rock
                            to the ice on Lake George, and then turned round on his snow-shoes and
                            walked away. The Indians, seeing the tracks, believed that two men had
                            slid down the frightful slope. The place is still known as "Rogers's
                            Slide."
                    
                    
                        Defeat of the English at Ticonderoga.
                    
                     assault, but after several repulses
                    they retreated in a panic to therir boats, and sailed back to the fort at the
                    south end of Lake George.
                
                    ROGERS'S SLIDE, LAKE GEORGE.
                
                But the English successe in 1758 pushed the French in America far
                    toward ruin. Louisbourg, the great French stronghold, from which privateers were
                    sent out, was gone, and by the fall of Fort Duquesne and Fort and Fort Frontenac
                    the routes from Canada to Louisiana were cut off. The fur-trade of Canada was
                    destroyed, and the Indians of the interior were no longer willing to come to the
                    support of the French, seeing the English in possession of the main roads into
                    their country.
                
                    Decline of the French power in America.
                
                During the siege of Louisbourg, Wolfe, a young brigadier-general, had
                    attracted much attention by the energy and daring of his operation. He was sent
                    by Pitt to take Quebec, if such a thing were possible.
                
                    Wolfe attacks Quebec.
                
                
                Quebec is on a high, steep bluff, overlooking the St. Lawrence where
                    that river is narrow, and the natural strength of the fortress is very great.
                    All through July and August of 1759. Wolfe's army and the English fleet tried in
                    vain to find a weak spot in the defenses of the Canadian stronghold, but the
                    fortress frowned on them from its inaccessible heights. In several attacks, made
                    at various points, the English were repulsed. As the season of storms was coming
                    on, and the fleet must soon leave, even Wolfe began to despond. But, in spite of
                    sickness ad pain, this heroic man roused his army to make one more attempt.
                    Meantime Montcalm, who commanded the French forces, was extremely vigilant. He
                    kept his horses saddled day and night to ride to any point that might be
                    assailed, and he did not take off his clothes for nearly three months.
                
                    WOLFE
                
                Wolfe put his man in boats and dropped down, in the night, from the
                    fleet above the town to a little bay, now known as Wolfe's Cove. Twenty-four
                    volunteers climbed the steep precipice by a rough path and drove off the guard
                    at the top. When firing was heard, the whole force landed and clambered up the
                    rocky steep, holding by bushes. When morning came, the British soldiers were in
                    line of battle on the "Plains of Abraham," less than a mile from Quebec, where
                    the French must fight or have their supplies cut off.
                
                    Wolfe scales the Heights of Abraham.
                
                
                    MONTCALM.
                
                Montcalm attacked immediately, but his ranks were broken by the
                    steady English fire, and Wolfe led a 
                    charge in person. Though twice wounded by bullets, Wolfe kept on until a shot
                    entered his breast, inflicting a mortal wound. When told that the enemy were
                    fleeing every where, he said, "Now, God be praised, I die in peace!" Montcalm,
                    who was also mortally wounded, said, "I am happy that I shall no live to see the
                    surrender of Quebec."
                
                    Defeat of the French on the "Plains of Abraham." Death of wolfe
                        and Montcalm.
                
                Quebec soon capitulated, and the fate of Canada was sealed. The
                    French attempted to retake the city in vain. The taking of Montreal, in 1760,
                    completed the conquest of Canada by the English. By the Treaty between England
                    and France, made in 1763, all the French possessions in America east of the
                        
                        Fall of Quebec, 1759. Canada ceded to the English, 1760.
                    
                    
                     Mississippi, except a district
                    around New Orleans, were ceded to England.
                The joy in the colonies knew no bounds. The people had seen their
                    shipping cut off by privateers, their property wasted by taxation, their paper
                    money depreciated, and their young men destroyed by almost continual war. The
                    frontiers had been desolated by the Indians, under French influence, for three
                    quarters of a century. Now they looked forward to peace, and the expansion of
                    the English settlements in America into a vast empire.
                
                    Rejoicing in the colonies.
                
                What was the name of the new Prime Minister of England who made great
                    changes in the conduct of the war in America? What was he resolved to do? How
                    did he choose his commanders? How did the colonists feel after he came to power?
                
                    OLD VEW OF QUEBEC.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                In what year did the English again lay siege to Louisbourg? Under
                    what general? By what troops had it been once taken? How did it come back into
                    French hands? (See page 126.) How long did the siege of Louisburg under Amherst
                    continue? What was the result?
                
                What French fort controlled Lake Ontraio? What Canadian town is now
                    situated where Fort Frontenac stood? What happened to Fort Frontenac in
                    September, 1758? What general had a road cut through the forests on the
                    Pennsylvania mountains? Why was General Forbes carried on a litter? What did he
                    force the French to do? What city now stands on the site of old Fort Duquesne?
                    In whose honor was Pittsburg named? Why was Pitt honored in America? Where did
                    the English suffer defeat in 1758? What English general sailed down Lake George?
                    What fort did he attack? What French general commanded at Ticonderoga? How did
                    the English try to carry the French works? What was the result? To what place
                    did the English retreat? What was the effect on Canada of the English successes
                    in 1758? What was the effect of the loss of Louisburg? How had the routes from
                    Canada to Louisiana been cut off? What was the effect on the fur-trade? Why were
                    the Indians of the interior no longer willing to come to the support of Canada?
                    How had General Wolfe attracted attention? What was he sent to do? How is Quebec
                    situated? What is its natural strength? What did Wolfe's army and the English
                    fleet try to find? What was the result of several attacks made by the English at
                    different points? How did Wolfe feel? What did he rouse his army to do? How did
                    the English get up to the top of the cliff? Where did 
                        ACADIA, PORT ROYAL, AND LOUISBOURG, AND THE
                            ROUTE BY SEA BETWEEN BOSTON AND QUEBEC.
                    
                    
                     they form a line of battle? How far
                    were they from Quebec? Why were the French obliged to fight? What was the result
                    of Montcalm's attsack? Who led the English charge? Who many bullets struck Wolfe
                    before he fell? What did he say when he heard that the enemy were fleeing? What
                    was Montcalm's fate? What did he say? What happened to Quebec? What surrender in
                    1760 completed the downfall of the French in Canada? What territory did the
                    French cede to the English in 1763? What is said of the joy in the colonies?
                    What calamities had come on the colonists by the continual war with France? For
                    how long a time had the desolation of the frontiers been going on? To what did
                    they now look forward?
                Tell about 
                        
                            1. Influence of Pitt.
                        
                        
                            2. Capture of Louisbourg.
                        
                        
                            3. Fall of Frontenac.
                        
                        
                            4. Driving of the French form Duquesne and founding of
                                Pittsburg.
                        
                        
                            5. Defeat of the English at Ticonderoga.
                        
                        
                            6. Fall of Quebec.
                        
                        
                            7. Fall Canada.
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Let the pupil point out or describe the location of Louisbourg. Of
                    Fort Frontenac (Kingston). Of Fort Duquesne (Pittsburg). Of Fort Ticonderoga. Of
                    Quebec. Of Monteral.
                
                    Geography.
                
                Parkman's "Montcalm and Wolfe," besides the general histories of
                    Bancroft and Winsor, mentioned in earlier chapters.
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIV.
                Characteristic of the Colonial Wars with the
                    French.
                THE English and French regulars wore
                    neat uniforms. The French were remarkable a long way off for the white, the
                    English for the red, which predominated in their dress. The drill of regular
                    soldiers was careful, and their discipline sever. They fought with great
                    steadiness, standing up and facing the enemy, and they and their of 
                        The regular soldiers.
                    
                    
                        A FRENCH REGULAR.
                    
                     ficers hale in contempt the skulking
                    way of fighting which prevailed among the colonial troops on both sides.
                The Americans, in both the French and English colonies, had learned
                    to fight in the woods. They loaded their guns lying on the ground, and they
                    fired from behind trees and stumps, now running forward and now retreating and
                    charging again. The regular troops took no definite aim, but fired at the
                    enemy's line, while the colonists were the best marksmen in the world, and the
                    man whom one of them covered with his gun was generally doomed. In the first
                    siege of Louisbourg their deadly aim at last rendered it impossible for the
                    French to load or fire a cannon. Though without experience, thy had plenty of
                    courage. At the battle of lake George it was said that the American provincials
                    fought in the morning like good boys, about noon like men, and in the afternoon
                    like demons.
                
                    The American troops.
                
                
                    A CANADIAN SOLDIER.
                
                The British officers were generally incapable of getting on well with
                    the American soldiers. They looked with contempt on men who wore little or no
                    uniform, and sometimes carried in the same company guns of the various sorts
                    they had used in hunting. The Americans made a bad show on parade, and refused
                    to fight standing up in close ranks. By the side of the neatly-kept, red-coated
                    British troops, the American militia looked shabby enough. The British officers
                    holding the king's commission assumed to command American officers of higher
                    rank, and this caused a dislike of the English to spread 
                        British officers and colonial soldiers.
                    
                    
                        A FLINT-LOCK.
                    
                    
                        A FRENCH OFFICER.
                    
                    
                        A FLIN-LOCK GUN.
                    
                     though the colonies. Pitt ordered
                    that the American officers should take equal rank with the British.
                The English troops were rather unfit for the work of fighting in the
                    woods. "Our clothes, our arms, our accouterments, even our shoes and stockings,
                    are all improper fro this country," wrote General Wolfe from America. Lord Howe,
                    who was one of the noblest of men and best of generals, changed the dress of his
                    men to fit them for marching in the woods. Hair was worn long in that day, and
                    Lord Howe cut off his own fine head of hair to persuade the men to sacrifice
                    theirs. He reduced the officers' baggage, and dismissed the great company of
                    washerwomen, setting a good example by washing his own linen in the brook. Lord
                    Howe cultivated the friendship of the American officers, and treated the
                    soldiers with great respect. He was second in command to Abercromby, and was
                    killed in a skirmish just before the attack on Ticonderoga. The defeat of
                    Abercrom by in the battle which followed is attributed to the loss of Lord Howe,
                    who was the real soul of the army. (See the preceding chapter.)
                
                    English troops in the woods, and Lord Howe's reforms.
                
                
                    INDIAN MOCCASINS.
                
                
                It was impossible to keep troops enough in the field to protect the
                    long frontier. No one could tell where the Indians would strike, and when they
                    had massacred a family they escaped too swiftly for pursuit. The colonies were
                    driven to offer rewards for the scalps of Indians as they were accustomed to pay
                    for wolves' heads. One can see how barbarous their feelings were, however, 
                        Rewards for scalps.
                    
                     in the offer of smaller rewards for
                    the scalps of Indian women and children.
                In many ways the French wars tended to corrupt the people of the
                    colonies. A race of traders secretly sold arms to the Indians that were
                    butchering their own people. Another set of men, some of whom were connected
                    with the government, sold provision to the French. Very many embarked in
                    privateeringthat is, they fitted out ships to capture and plunder the
                    merchant-ships of France. This was only a kind of lawful piracy. Many of the
                    soldiers who returned from the war had learned habits of idleness and
                    dissipation.
                
                    Evil influences of the French wars.
                
                The sorrow inflicted on both the French and English colonists were
                    more than can be imagined. The frontier people lived in continual fear of sudden
                    death by the tomahawk, or slow death by torture. Yet their courage grew with
                    their danger.
                
                    Sorrows of the frontier.
                
                In 1689 captives taken in Maine were carried to Canada and sold
                    there. From that time forward innumerable people captured on the frontier by the
                    Indians were sold into Canada, enduring horrible sufferings in their forced
                    journeys thought the woods. Many of these were 
                        LORD HOWE WASHING HIS LINEN
                    
                     ransomed by their friends. Husbands
                    made dangerous and sorrowful journeys to redeem their wives, and parents went in
                    search of their children. Great compassion was excited in New England for the
                    captives, and collection were frequenly made for their redemption. Sometimes
                    captive children were reclaimed who had been educated in French, and had quite
                    forgotten the language and the religion of their parents. The Canadians were
                    generally kind to the captives, and some of the prisoners 
                        Captivity in Canada among the Indians.
                    
                    
                        WHITE CAPTIVES DRIVEN INTO CANADA BY
                        INDIANS.
                    
                    
                        Captives in the French Wars.One of the first of the many
                            thousands of captives carried to Canada was a little girl named Sarah
                            Gerrish. An Indian girl once tried to drown her by pushing her off a
                            precipice into the river, but she saved herself by catching hold of the
                            bushes. Once she was so weary that she overslept, and awoke to find
                            herself alone in the woods and covered with snow. She followed the
                            tracks of the Indians until she overtook them. Again, the Indians built
                            a great fire, and told her that she was to be burned, but she threw her
                            arms around her Indian master's neck and begged him to save her. She was
                            sold to the French in Canada, and kindly treated by them until she was
                            returned. In the fall of 1677 two men, White and Jennings, set out from
                            the Connecticut River for Canada, to redeem their wives and children
                            carried off by Indians. Without guides they paddled though Lake
                            Champlain and reached Canada. After seven months' absence they brought
                            back about twenty captives in all. The people sent hoses to meet them at
                            Albany and bring them into Hatfield, where they were received with the
                            greatest joy. One woman, when she got her children together, after
                            captivity, found one of her sons, a lad of eleven, an Indian in habits,
                            and not able to speak any but the Indian language; while a daughter of
                            fifteen, who had been educated in a Canadian convent, spoke nothing but
                            French. One Pennsylvanian got home just as the sale of his property at
                            auction had been completed, his neighbors having supposed him dead.
                            James smith, having endured six years of captivity among the Indians,
                            came home a few days after his sweetheart had married another man.
                    
                     were very sorry to return. Many of
                    the captives remained among the savages; one Indian village contained a hundred
                    white people carried away in childhood. These had forgotten how to speak
                    English. Some of the Indian tribes doubled their numbers in the last French war
                    by adopting white children. Three thousand, men, women, and children, were
                    carried into captivity from Pennsylvania and the provinces south of it in the
                    year 1756.
                The colonies did not immediately have peace. The Indians of the
                    Western country hated the English, and the occupation of the old French forts by
                    small English garrisons excited their jealousy. Under the lead of Pontica, on
                    Ottawa chief, a great conspiracy was formed in 1763, the year of the peace. The
                    garrisons of many of the smaller forts were massacred. Detroit and Pittsburg
                    were attacked, and the families on the frontier suffered horrible inroads from
                    the saves. In became necessary to march forces into the Indian country. General
                    Bouquet, with five hundred men, defeated a large force of Indians in a desperate
                    two days' battle at Bushy Run, in Pennsylvania, in 1763. "Pontica's War," as it
                    was called, was brought to a close in 1764, and the frontiers had a brief rest.
                    But already there were seen the beginnings of that great quarrel of the
                    Americans with the mother-country which brought on the bitter struggle of the
                    Revolutionary War.
                
                    Pontiac's war.
                
                How were the English and French regulars dressed? What color was
                    conspicuous in the dress of the French? What in that of the English? What was
                    the nature of the drill and discipline of the regulars? How did they fight? What
                    did they think of the mode of fighting which prevailed among the colonial
                    troops? 
                        Question for study.
                    
                     learned to fight? How did they load?
                    How did they fire? What difference was there between their firing and that of
                    the regular troops? What was the effect of their fire at Louisbourg? What did
                    the French commander at the battle of Lake George say about their fighting?
                How did the British officers get on with the colonial troops? Why did
                    they hold them in contempt? What difficulty was there about the rank of American
                    officers? What effect did this have on the feelings of the Americans toward the
                    English? What order did Pitt make about the rank of the American officers? What
                    is said of the fitness of English troops for fighting in the woods? What did
                    General Wolfe write on this subject? What kind of man was Lord Howe? What did he
                    do about the dress of his man? What about their hair? What about baggage and the
                    washing of clothes? How did he treat the American officers and soldiers? When
                    was Lord Howe killed? What defeat is attributed to his death? What difficulty
                    was there in protecting the frontier? What measures were taken to reward the
                    Indian fighters of the frontier? What sign or barbarous feeling do we see in the
                    way in which rewards were offered for scalps? What are some of the ways in which
                    the French wars tended to make the Americans barbarous? What kind of secret
                    trade was there with the Indians? What kind of secret trade with the French?
                    What kind of a business was privateering? Was it much carried on at that time?
                    What effect did the war have on the soldiers engaged in it?
                What were the sorrows inflicted on the French and English colonists?
                    What fear was continually in the minds of people on the frontier? What is one of
                    the most sorrowful chapters of the war? In what year were the first captives
                    carried to Canada? Where were they taken from? How were many of these ransomed?
                    What change had sometimes taken place in children carried to Canada? How did
                    some of them fell about returning? Were all the captives sold to Canada? How
                    many white people were found in one Indian village? Were the Indian tribes
                    increased by the adoption of white children? How many people were carried into
                    captivity from Pennsylvania and the provinces sough of it in 1756? Did the peace
                    with France bring a lasting peace with the Indians? In what year was a great
                    conspiracy of the Indians formed? What was the name of the chief who was the
                    leader in this war? In what battle did Colonel Bonquet defeat the Indians? In
                    what year was Pontiac's War brought to a close? What struggle was already
                    beginning?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Tell about 
                        
                            I. The different kinds of soldiers.
                            
                                
                                    1. The English and French regulars.
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                a. Their
                                            appearance.
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                b. Their mode of
                                                fighting.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                
                                    2. The American militia.
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                a. Their
                                            appearance.
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                b. Their mode of
                                                fighting.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                    3. The lack of agreement between English and
                                        Americans.
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                a. The question of
                                                rank.
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                b. Lord Howe's reform
                                                in the dress of the British soldiers.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            II. The frontier.
                            
                                
                                    1. The reward for scalps.
                                
                                
                                    2. Captivity.
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                a. In Canada.
                                        
                                        
                                            
                                                b. Among the
                                            Indians.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            III. Pontiac's War.
                        
                    
                
                Five kinds of soldiers in the French wars:
                
                    
                        French regulars,
                    
                    
                        on the French side.
                    
                    
                        Canadian militia,
                    
                    
                        on the French side.
                    
                    
                        English regulars,
                    
                    
                        on the English side.
                    
                    
                        Colonial militia,
                    
                    
                        On the English side.
                    
                    
                        Indians,
                    
                    
                        on both sides.
                    
                
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                Where is Pittsburg? Where is Detroit?
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                    THIRD REVIEW.COLONIAL WARS.
                     Chapter XX to XXIV.
                The Spainards in Florida. (XX.) Settlement of St. Augustine.
                
                    Review by topics.
                
                
                    
                        The French in America. (XX.)
                    
                    
                        Planting of Quebec in 1608.
                    
                    
                        Joliet reaches the Mississippi.
                    
                    
                        La Salle discovers the Ohio.
                    
                    
                        La Salle reaches the mouth of the Mississippi.
                    
                    
                        Hennepin explores the upper Mississippi.
                    
                    
                        Louisiana founded.
                    
                    
                        Attempt to possess the whole interior.
                    
                
                
                    
                        French and English. (XX.)
                    
                    
                        Fewness of the French in numbers.
                    
                    
                        Their union and military character.
                    
                    
                        Their influence with the Indians.
                    
                    
                        The superiority of the English in numbers.
                    
                    
                        Their lack of union.
                    
                    
                        Their lack of influence with many of the Indians.
                    
                
                
                    
                        Causes of quarrel. (XX.)
                    
                    
                        Disputed territory.
                    
                    
                        Fisheries.
                    
                    
                        Fur-trade.
                    
                    
                        Religious prejudices.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        "King William's War," 1689-1697. (XXI.)
                    
                    
                        Indians attack in Maine.
                    
                    
                        Iroquois attack Montreal.
                    
                    
                        Massacres at Schenectady, Salmon Falls, and Casco Bay.
                    
                    
                        Congress of the colonies, 1690.
                    
                    
                        Two expeditions against Quebec.
                    
                    
                        Peter Schuyler against the French.
                    
                
                
                    
                        "Queen Anne's War," 1704-1713. (XXI.)
                    
                    
                        The war against the Spaniards in Florida.
                    
                    
                        Attempts to take Quebec.
                    
                    
                        Massacres at Deerfield and elsewhere.
                    
                
                
                    
                        War with the Spaniards in Florida. (XXI.)
                    
                    
                        Oglethorpe invades Florida, 1740.
                    
                    
                        The Spanish invade Georgia, 1742.
                    
                
                
                    
                        "King George's War," 1744-1748. (XXI.)
                    
                    
                        The taking of Louisbourg by New-Englanders.
                    
                    
                        Louisbourg returned to the French.
                    
                
                
                    
                        Last French war begun in 1751. English reverses. (XXII.)
                    
                    
                        Washington begins the war, 1754.
                    
                    
                        Braddock's defeat, 1755.
                    
                    
                        The Acadians removed.
                    
                    
                        Failure of English expeditions.
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            a. Against Crown Point.
                    
                    
                        
                            b. Against fort Niagara.
                    
                    
                        
                            c. Against Louisbourg.
                    
                
                
                    
                        The French capture Fort William Henry.
                    
                
                
                    
                        English conquer Canada. War concluded, 1763. (XXIII.)
                    
                    
                        Pitt governs England.
                    
                    
                        Second capture of Louisbourg.
                    
                    
                        Capture of Fort Frontenac.
                    
                    
                        General Frobes takes Fort Du Quesne.
                    
                    
                        Defeat of Abercromby at Ticonderoga.
                    
                    
                        Wolfe takes Quebec.
                    
                    
                        Fall of the French power in Canada.
                    
                
                
                    
                        Traits of the French wars. (XXIV.)
                    
                    
                        Regular soldiers and militia.
                    
                    
                        Sorrows of Indian warfare.
                    
                    
                        "Pontiac's War."
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXV.
                How the Colonies were Governed.
                THE close of the French war made way
                    for the Revolution. But, before we consider the events which led to the
                    separation of the colonies from England, it will be best to ask, How were the
                    colonies governed at the close of the French wars? There were three forms of
                    government in America"royal," "charter," and "proprietary."
                
                    Three forms of government in the colonies.
                
                The oldest colony, Virginia, was under what was called a royal
                    government, because the king appointed the governor, and approved or disapproved
                    of the laws that were passed. "Royal" means belonging to the king. New York had
                    been granted to the duke of York as a proprietary government, but when that duke
                    became king, as James II, it became a royal, or king's province. New Jersey
                    became a royal colony after the king bought the right of the proprietors. The
                    two Carolinas were proprietary governments at first, but in 1729 the king bought
                    out the proprietary rights, and they became royal governments. Georgia was first
                    settled under a body of twenty-one trustees, but in 1752 these trustees
                    surrendered the government to the king. In 1679 New Hampshire was separated form
                    Massachusetts, and became a royal colony. So that, after 1752, there were seven
                    colonies under royal governments, namely, Virginia, New York, New Jersey, North
                    and South Carolina, Georgia, and New Hampshire.
                
                    Colonies under royal governments.
                
                Three coloniesMassachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Islandwere under
                    charter governments; that 
                        Colonies under charter governments.
                    
                     is, they were for the most part
                    governed by their own people, according to charters granted by the king.
                    Massachusetts, after it lost its first charter, had a governor appointed by the
                    king, but the power remained mostly in the hands of the legislature. Maine was
                    attached to Massachusetts.
                Maryland had been given to Lord Baltimore, Pennsylvania to Williams
                    Penn. Baltimore and penn were called "proprietors," or "proprietaries." The
                    heirs of these first proprietors exercised in these two colonies power somewhat
                    similar to those of the king in the royal colonies. These were called
                    proprietary government. Delaware had been ceded to Penn by the Duke of York,
                    and, though it had a separate Legislature, it was under the same governor as
                    Pennsylvania. There were, therefore, at the close of the French wars, three
                    proprietary governments Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Delaware.
                
                    Colonies under proprietary governments.
                
                Each of the thirteen colonies had a legislative body. These were
                    divided into tow houses. There was a lover house, or Assemble, elected by the
                    people. The members of the upper house, or Council, were generally appointed by
                    the king in the royal colonies, and by the proprietary in the proprietary
                    colonies. In the charter colonies governors and members of the Council were
                    elected by the Assembly.
                
                    Colonial Legislatures.
                
                In order to pass a law both houses of the Legislature must vote for
                    it and the governor must agree to it. We have kept the same rule. Our State and
                    national laws are made in this way now. The body we call the Senate takes the
                    place occupied by the governor's Council in the colonies. But in our time 
                        How laws were passed in the colonies.
                    
                     the people elect the governors and
                    both houses of the Legislature. In nearly all of the colonies the people had no
                    voice in choosing the governor or the upper house of the legislature. The people
                    could not, there, fore, make laws which were not agreeable to the king or the
                    proprietary. There was, consequently, almost a continual quarrel between the
                    governors, acting under instructions from England, and the representatives of
                    the people.
                All laws regulating the trade between the colonies and with other
                    countries were made by the English Parliament. The colonies were obliged, often
                    much against their will, to admit negro slaves, brought in by English merchants.
                    They were forced to send nearly all their leading products to England for sale.
                    They were not allowed to but any European goods, except in England, and no
                    foreign ships were allowed to enter a port in this country. Laws were made to
                    discourage people in the colonies from making and trading in such things as were
                    made England. There were English laws against the manufacture of iron-ware and
                    woolen goods by the American. The colonists had many furs, and could make hats
                    very cheaply, but no hatter was allowed to send hats form one colony to another.
                
                    Commercial laws made by the English Parliament.
                
                
                    A HATTER'S SHOP IN OLD TIMES.
                
                Custom-house were established by law in all the principal ports of
                    the colonies, and duties collected for 
                        Custom-house and smuggling.
                    
                     the king. But the colonists evaded
                    these unjust laws in every way they could, and there was a great deal of
                    smuggling all along the coast.
                What did the close of the French war make way for? How many kinds of
                    governments were there in the colonies? What were they called? Which form of
                    government was Virginia under? Why was this form called "royal"? What does the
                    word "royal" mean? To whom had New York been granted? (When? See pages 47, 48.)
                    When did it become a royal province? How did New Jersey, which once belonged to
                    proprietors, become a royal colony? What kind of government did the tow
                    Carolinas have at first? In what year did the king buy out the proprietors? What
                    kid of governments did the Carolinas have after 1729? Under what king of a body
                    had Georgia been settled? What did the trustees of Georgia do in 1752? From what
                    colony was New Hampshire separated in 1679? What sort of a colony did it then
                    become? How many colonies were there under royal governments? What were their
                    names? (There were thirteen colonies in all: were the royal colonies more or
                    less than half of them?) How many colonies were under charter governments? What
                    three were they? How were the charter colonies governed? After Massachusetts had
                    lost its first charter, who appointed it governor? In whose hands did the power
                    mostly remain? Which one of our present States was at that time attached to the
                    governments of Massachusetts? To whom had Maryland been given? To whom had
                    Pennsylvania been given? What were Baltimore and Penn therefore called? What
                    powers did their heirs exercise in their colonies? What were their governments
                    called? What colony had been ceded to Penn by the Duke of York? What is said of
                    the government of Delaware? How many proprietary governments were there? Name
                    them. What did each of the thirteen colonies have? How many "houses" were there
                    in each Legislature? How were the members of the Assembly chosen? Who appointed
                    the members of the Council, or upper house, in a royal colony? Who appointed
                    them in a proprietary colony? How were they generally chosen in a charter
                    colony? What was necessary in order to pass a law in one of the colonies? How do
                    our ways of making laws at the present time resemble this? But what is the
                    difference? Who elects the governor now? What part of the State Legislature is
                    elected by the people now? Did the people of the colonies choose their own
                    governors? Did they choose they choose the upper house of the Legislature? What
                    kind of laws could they not make? What was the result of this arrangement? What
                    kind of laws could they not make? What was the result of this arrangement? What
                    kind of laws were made for the colonies by the English Parliament? What were
                        
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     they obliged to receive against
                    their will? Where were they forced to send all their leading products? Where
                    must they buy all European goods? What kind of ships were forbidden to come to
                    this country? What kind of goods were people in the colonies discouraged from
                    making? What three sorts of manufacture were particularly restricted?
                What were established in the colonial ports? For whom were the duties
                    collected? Did the colonies willingly obey the laws made against their trade?
                    What is said of smuggling? (What is smuggling?)
                Tell about
                
                    
                        I. The three kinds of government in the colonies.
                        
                            
                                1. Royal government.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. What was it?
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. What colonies were
                                            governed in this way?
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                2. Charter government.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. What kind of a
                                            government was it?
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. What colonies were
                                            governed under charters?
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                3. Proprietary governments.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. What kind of
                                            government was it?
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. What colonies were
                                            proprietary at the close of the French wars?
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. The colonial Legislatures.
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. The tow houses that formed the
                                    Assembly.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b. The way in which laws were
                                    passed, and the difference, between them and our
                                Legislatures.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The laws regulating the trade of the colonies.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    ROYAL. CHARTER. PROPRIETARY.
                    Virginia. Massachusetts. Maryland.
                    New York. Connecticut. Pennsylvania.
                    New Jersey. Rhode Island. Delaware.
                    North Carolina.
                    South Carolina. Royal 7
                    New Hampshire. Charter 3
                    Georgia. Proprietary 3
                    Total 13
                    IN THE COLONIES. IN THE STATES
                
                
                    
                        I. Governor chosen by
                    
                    
                        the king,
                    
                    
                        the proprietary,
                    
                    
                        or the Assembly.
                    
                
                
                    
                        I. Governor
                        
                            
                                Chosen by the people.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Senate
                        
                            
                                Chosen by the people.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. House of Representatives
                        
                            
                                Chosen by the people.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        II. Council chosen by
                    
                    
                        the king,
                    
                    
                        the governor,
                    
                    
                        or the Assembly.
                    
                
                
                    
                        III. The Assembly chosen by the people.
                    
                
                
                    Blackboard.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVI.
                Early Struggles for Liberty in the Colonies.
                THE colonies were settled at a time
                    when the English people were trying to establish the principles of liberty in
                    their own government. Many of the colonists were driven to this country by acts
                    to tyranny. The settlers in America brought with them the English love of
                    liberty. The were always ready to assert their right to "the liberties of
                    Englishmen."
                
                    Love of liberty in the colonists.
                
                Free government was first established in America by the Virginia
                    charter of 1618. (See page 30.) The king, in dissolving the Virginia Company,
                    struck a blow at the liberty of the colony, but the people strove hard to
                    maintain their freedom. When, in 1624, the clerk of the Virginia Council
                    betrayed their secrets to 
                        Early struggles for liberty in Virginia.
                    
                    
                        THE PILLORY, AS USED IN AMERICA.
                    
                     the king's commissioners, the
                    Virginia Assemble sent him to the pillory, and had part of his ears cut off, to
                    the great disgust of King James. When Sir John Harvey was governor of Virginia,
                    he opposed the people, and the Council deposed him in 1635, and sent him to
                    England. King Charles I was offended at their presumption in deposing a royal
                    governor, and he sent him back again as governor. But the people succeeded in
                    having him removed in 1639.
                Sir William Berkeley, the royal governor of Virginia, opposed the
                    people, and in 1676 refused to allow them to make war on the Indians, who were
                    ravaging the frontiers. This he did, lest the large profits he was making out of
                    the fur-trade should be reduced. The people of the frontier put themselves under
                    the lead of a brilliant your man, Nathaniel Bacon by name. He forced the
                    governments to give him a commission, and he got the Legislature to pass some
                    good laws, that were much needed.
                
                    Bacon's rebellion.
                
                
                    Nathaniel Becon belonged to a family prominent in the county of
                        Sufiolk, in England. He was educated in the law at Cambridge. His habits,
                        like those of other young gentlemen of the time, were extravagant, and he
                        exceeded the allowance made him by his father. About 1673 he went to
                        Virginia, where he had a cousin, also named Nathaniel Bacon, who was rich
                        and childless, and who wished to make to younger Nathaniel heir to his
                        fortune, if he could have persuaded him not to embrace the popular cause.
                        But the generous heart of the younger Bacon was touched with the wrongs of
                        the people, and, though he had been appointed a member of the governor's
                        council, he yielded to the request of the people and became their leader. He
                        showed excellent ability, and he was idolized by the people, who stood guard
                        day and night over his house lest he should be assassinated. In fighting the
                        Indians he caused his men to stand so close to their fort that they could
                        fire though the portholes, and yet, by standing at one side, escape the fire
                        of the Indians. When, with a little handful of men, he marched swiftly on
                        Jamestown, which was garrisoned by five times as many, the people brought
                        food out into the road to refresh his soldiers, and the women cried after
                        him, "General, if you need help, send for us!" He treated his enemies with
                        gentleness, but he pushed his measures with vigor. When he died, his body
                        was secretly buried by his friends, by sinking it in the waters of the
                        river, in order that his enemies might not dig up his bones. The only
                        document to be found that appears to have been written by Bacon's own had is
                        signed "Nathaniel Bacon, General, by consent of the people." So that he was
                        something of a republican, though he lived a hundred years before the
                        Revolution.
                
                
                Then he marched against the Indians and drove them back. On his
                    return, hearing that Berkeley had determined to arrest him, he marched straight
                    on Jamestown, and, thought his force was not a fourth part so numerous as that
                    in the town, he laid siege to it, captured it, and burned it to the ground.
                    Governor Berkeley fled to the Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay, and the people of
                    Virginia, except the few on the eastern side of the bay, took an oath to support
                    Bacon, hailing him as a deliverer. But Bacon was worn out by the cares and
                    exposures of the Indian war and the James-town siege, and he soon died. Berkeley
                    succeeded after a while in reducing Bacon's followers, and in confiscating for
                    his own use much of their property. Twenty-three leading men he put to death.
                    For this severity the king recalled him in disgrace.
                Soon after Massachusetts had been settled, under the patent or
                    charter of the Massachusetts Companry (see pages 40, 41), an attempt was made to
                    destroy that charter by the same kind of a lawsuit that had been used to destroy
                    the charter of Virginia Company. But the Massachusetts charter had been carried
                    to America, and, when the judges in England sent orders to have it brought back
                    to be examined, the rulers of the colony made excuses until the troubles in
                    England caused the matter to be laid aside.
                
                    Attempts to dissolve the Massachusetts charter in the reign of
                        Charles I.
                
                In the reign of Charles II, proceedings were again taken against the
                    Massachusetts charter, and in 1686 it was dissolved. Kin James II, who had by
                    this time come to the throne, soon after appointed Sir Edmund Andros governor of
                    New York and New England. He was a tyrant, who tried in every way to overthrow
                    the 
                        Massachusetts rebels against Governor Andros.
                    
                     liberties of the colonies. The
                    people of New England were exasperated to the highest pitch, and when they heard
                    that the Prince of Orange had landed in England, to overthrow James II, they
                    rose against Andros and imprisoned hi, establishing a government of their own.
                    This was in 1688.
                During the time that Andros was governor of all New England, he had
                    tried to carry off the Connecticut charter. But it is said that, when the
                    charter was brought in and laid on the table, the lights were suddenly blown
                    out, and when they were lighted the charter was gone. It had been taken away and
                    hidden in the hollow of an oak-three. This three stood for nearly a hundred and
                    seventy years after, and was always respected as "the Charter Oak."
                
                    The charter of Connecticut hidden in an oak.
                
                Andros was supreme governor of New York as well as of New England. In
                    New York there was also great dissatisfaction with his government, and, when the
                    common people heard that Andros had been put in prison in Boston, they rose
                    against his lieutenant, and set up Captain Jacob Leisler for governor. Leisler,
                    who governed the colony of more than two years, was a plain merchant, with no
                    knowledge of government. He was bitterly opposed by the rich men of the colony.
                    Though a man of patriotism, he was imprudent, and, after the arrival of a royal
                    governor, his enemies succeeded in having him executed for treason.
                
                    GOVERNOR ANDROS.
                
                
                    Leisler's rebellion in New York.
                
                In 1719 the people of South Carolina overthrew the oppressive
                    government of the lords-proprietors and put themselves under the government of
                    the king, 
                        Rebellion against the proprietors in South Carolina.
                    
                     who bought out all the rights of the
                    proprietors ten years later.
                The spirit of liberty was in all the colonies. The governors
                    appointed in England made continual efforts to encroach on the freedom of the
                    people. The colonial Legislatures were in a perpetual quarrel with their
                    governors. English statesmen desired to have the governors paid a fixed salary,
                    so that would not be dependent on the colonies. But the colonies kept the
                    purse-strings in their own hands, as far as possible, in order to preserve their
                    liberties.
                
                    Legislative resistance to the colonial governors.
                
                What spirit did the settlers in America bring with them from England?
                    What right were they every ready to assert? By what charter as free government
                    first established in America? At what did king James strike a blow when he
                    dissolved the Virginia company? What did the people strive hard to maintain?
                    What did the clerk of the Council in Virginia betray to the king's commissioners
                    in 1624? What punishment did the Virginia Assembly inflict on him? What did the
                    Virginias Council do when Sir John Harvey oppressed the colony in 1635? What id
                    the kin do? What did the people succeed in doing with him? How did Sir William
                    Berkeley govern Virginia? Why did he refuse to make war on the Indians? Under
                    whose lead did the people of the frontier put themselves? What kind of a man was
                    Nathaniel Bacon? What did he force the governor to do? What did he get the
                    Legislature to do? Against whom did Bacon march? When he got back what did he
                    hear? What did he do? How did his force compare with that in Jamestown? When
                    bacon had taken Jamestown, what did Governor Berkeley do? What did the people of
                    Virginia do? What became of Bacon? What did Berkeley succeed in doing after
                    Bacon's death? How many did he put to death? How did the king treat him for
                    this? What kind of an attempt was made to destroy the Massachusetts charter?
                    Where was the charter? What course did the rulers of Massachusetts take to
                    protect the charter? In whose reign were new proceedings begun against the
                    Massachusetts charter? In what year was it dissolved? What king was on the
                    throne in 1686? Whom had he appointed to be governor of New York and New
                    England? What new form England encouraged the people to rise against Andros?
                    What did they do with him? In that year was this? What had Andros tried to do in
                        
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     Connecticut? How did the people
                    protect their charter? Where was the charter hidden? How long did the charter
                    oak stand? Who was supreme governor of New York at this time? What did the new
                    Yorkers do when they heard that Andros had been imprisoned in Boston? Whom did
                    the New-Yorkers set up for governor? What kind of a man was Leisler? What became
                    of him? Where did much of the resistance to the encroachments of the governors
                    take place? What did English statesmen desire? What did the colonies wish to
                    keep in their won hands? Why?
                Tell about
                
                    
                        I. Early Struggles for liberty in Virginia.
                        
                            
                                1. Against King James when the Virginia Company was
                                    dissolved.
                            
                            
                                2. Governor Harvey sent home.
                            
                            
                                3. Bacon's rebellion.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Early struggles for liberty in Massachusetts.
                        
                            
                                1. The preservation of the charter in the time of
                                    Charles I.
                            
                            
                                2. The overthrow of Andros.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The Connecticut charter in the charter oak.
                    
                    
                        IV. Overthrow of the Andros government in New York.
                    
                    
                        V. Revolution of 1719 in south Carolina.
                    
                    
                        VI. Colonial Legislatures resist the royal power.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVII.
                The Causes of the Revolution.
                LONG before the Revolution there was
                    much dissatisfaction in the colonies. Many of the governors sent over were
                    tyrannical and dishonest. The Americans did not like the transportation of
                    criminals, nor the action of the British government in annulling the laws made
                    to keep out slaves. They were also much annoyed by English laws, which prevented
                    them from sending away woolen goods, hats, and iron-wares of their own make,
                    form one colony to another. Most of all, they disliked the "navigation laws,"
                    the object of 
                        General causes of discontent.
                    
                     which was to compel them to do most
                    of their trading with England (page 153).
                The enforcement of these unpopular laws was in the hands of
                    custom-hose officers. The custom-house officers in Boston, in 1761, asked the
                    courts for "writes of assistance," which would give them the right to search any
                    house, at any time, for the purpose of finding smuggled goods. This produced a
                    great excitement, and made the navigation laws still more unpopular. The trial
                    which took place about these writes was a kind of beginning of the quarrel which
                    brought on the Revolution fourteen years afterward.
                
                    The writs of assistance.
                
                
                    PATRICK HENRY.
                
                But England and the colonies, wile always carrying on a family
                    quarrel, had little thought of separating. Separation would probably have come
                    when the colonies grew too large to be dependent, but his might at least have
                    been postponed for two or three generations if the men who 
                        The Stamp Act.
                    
                    
                        Patrick Henry was born in Hanover Country, Virginia, in 1736.
                            He was chiefly educated in a school taught by his father. He read law
                            and began the practice of his profession. In 1763 he was engaged to
                            plead in defense of the people against a suit of the parish clergy. It
                            was known as "The Parsons' Cause." Before a court, in which his own
                            father was the presiding magistrate, he pleaded the case of the people
                            with such extraordinary eloquence and vehemence that the clergymen rose
                            and left the room, and Henry's father wept tears of triumph, while the
                            people carried the your lawyer about on their shoulders. Elected to the
                            Virginia Legislature, he immediately took the lead against the Stamp Act
                            and became famous. It was in his speech on the Stamp Act that he uttered
                            the famous words, "Cesar had his Brutus, Charles the First his Cromwell,
                            and George the Third" As Henry reached this point his opponents cried
                            "Treason! treason!" But the speaker finished by saying, "may profit by
                            their example," and added, "if that be treason, make the most of it!"
                            When pleading for the organization of the Virginia militia, before the
                            Revolutionary War had begun, he closed with these memorable words: "Is
                            life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of
                            chains and slavery? Forbid it, almighty God! I know not what course
                            others may take, but as for me, give me liberty of give me death!" He
                            was several times governor of Virginia. He died in 1799.
                    
                     ruled England had not tried to tax
                    the American colonies. Parliament passed, in 1765, what was known as "The Stamp
                    Act." This law required that all bills, notes, leases, and many other such
                    documents used in the colonies, should be written on stamped paper, which should
                    be sold by officers at such prices as should bring a revenue to the English
                    government. All newspapers were require to be printed on stamped paper.
                The American people quickly saw that, if the British Parliament could
                    pass such an act, they could tax America in any other way. The cry was raised in
                    all the colonies, "No taxation without representation!" Patrick Henry, a
                    brilliant speaker, took the lead in the agitation in Virginia, and James Otis,
                    an eloquent Boston lawyer, was the principal orator in Massachusetts. The
                    rivalries and jealousies between the various colonies died out in the new
                    patriotic feeling, and the excitement ran like a flame of fire form New
                    Hampshire to Georgia. There was everywhere a call for union among the colonies.
                        
                        Violent opposition to the Stamp Act.
                    
                    
                        JAMES OTIS.
                    
                    
                        James Otis was born at what is now West Barnstable, on Cape
                            Cod, in 1725. After studying in his native town he went to Harvard
                            College, where he graduated when he was eighteen years old. But, wishing
                            to lay a good foundation, he spent a year and a half, more in general
                            studies before he entered on the study of the law. He practiced at first
                            in Plymouth and afterward in Boston. He rose to the highest rank in his
                            profession. He was an honorable man, and would never take unfair
                            advantages of an opponent. When the custom-house officers applied for
                            "writs of assistance," which would enable them to search any house at
                            any time, it became the duty of Otis, as advocate-general, to argue in
                            favor of the writs. But he gave up this lucrative office and took the
                            side of liberty. He made a great speech, five house long, against the
                            writs, and this speech is considered by some the starting-point of the
                            Revolution. It was in this speech that he first raised the popular cry
                            against "taxation without representation," which was the watchword of
                            the Revolution. In the great struggle over the Stamp Act, and in the
                            debates that followed, to 1769, he was the brilliant leader. When the
                            bitterness of the controversy with England was at its height he become
                            involved in a affray with several officers of the customs, and was
                            seriously injured. Soon after this his mind, wearied by the exciting
                            controversies in which he was engaged, became gradually deranged, and he
                            retired form public affairs. In 1783 he was killed by a stroke of
                            lightning.
                    
                     A congress of delegates form nine of
                    the colonies met in New York in October, 1765. It is known as "The Stamp-Act
                    Congress." But the people were too much excited to stop at orderly measures. In
                    colony after colony violent mobs compelled the stamp-officers to resign. In some
                    places the people pulled down or rifled the houses of British official. Not one
                    man in all the colonies dared to sell a piece of stamped paper.
                Though America had almost no manufactures, the merchants pledged
                    themselves to import no English goods until the Stamp Act was repealed. As black
                    goods came form England, the people resolved to wear no black at funerals, and
                    they began to dress in homespun. They resoled, also, to eat no more mutton, in
                    order to increase the home production of wool. English merchants, whose trade
                    was hurt by these measures, now joined in the clamor for the repeal of the Stamp
                    Act, and it was repealed in 1766, to the great joy of the colonies.
                
                    The Americans agree not to import English goods. Repeal of the
                        Stamp Act.
                
                But Parliament passed anther bill at the same time, asserting its
                    right to tax the colonies. New ways of raising a revenue in America, without the
                    consent of the people, were tried. Troops were quartered in the colonies, and
                    the people were required to pay the expense. This the colonies. Refused to do.
                    In 1770 a 
                        Other acts of oppression.
                    
                    
                        SAMUEL ADAMS.
                    
                    
                        Samuel Adams was born in Boston in 1722. He graduated at
                            Harvard College at twenty years of age. He was already devoted to
                            liberty, and his oration when he received the degree of master of arts
                            defended the right of the people to resist the supreme magistrate, "if
                            the commonwealth can not otherwise be preserved." He was one of the
                            first to oppose taxation by Parliament, and he early became the chief
                            organizer and leader of the revolutionary movement in Massachusetts. He
                            is said to have proposed the Congress of 1774. When General Gage offered
                            pardon to the Americas, he excepted Samuel Adams and John Hancock. Adams
                            was a member of the Continental Congress and a principal advocate of
                            American independence. He lived a pure and incorruptible life, and,
                            though always poor, the king could not buy him from the path of virtue.
                            He died in 1803.
                    
                     collision took place between British
                    troops and some people in Boston. Three of the people in Boston. Three of the
                    people were killed. This was called "The Boston Massacre." It excited deep
                    feeling in all the colonies, and Samuel Adams, the leader of the Boston
                    town-meeting, compelled the governor to withdraw the troops from the city.
                The tax was at length taken off form nearly everything except tea. By
                    releasing a part of the English duty on tea sent to America, the government
                    arranged it so that the Americans, after paying a tax in America, would have
                    their tea cheaper than before. The Americans were not contending for al little
                    money, but for a principle, and they refused to receive the tea. They began to
                    drink tea made of sassafras-roots, sage, raspberry-leaves, yaupon, and other
                    American plants. The English government sent over consignment of tea to the
                    principal ports. At Boston a company of fifty men, disguised as Mohawk Indians,
                    boarded the ships and emptied three hundred and forty-two chest of tea into the
                    sea. This is known as "The Boston Tea-Party." In New York the people emptied a
                    private consignment of tea into the water, and the ships which were sent by the
                    government they compelled to go back to England. Philadelphia also sent the
                    tea-ships home again. In 
                    
                        Opposition to the tax on tea.
                    
                     Charleston the tea was landed, but
                    purposely stored in damp cellars, where it rotted; and at Annapolis, a ship that
                    had paid the duty on a private consignment of tea was burned in the harbor.
                The English Parliament punished Boston by closing its port until the
                    tea thrown ooverboard should be paid for. This act produced a great deal of
                    distress in Boston, by ruining its business and throwing its working-people out
                    of employment. But it excited the sympathy of the other colonies, who sent aid
                    to its people and who resolved support it. A committee in New York immediately
                    suggested that Massachusetts should call a congress, and thus the colonies were
                    finally brought into a union against the mother-country.
                
                    The Boston Port Bill and its effect.
                
                What was the character of many of the men sent over to America as
                    governors? What kind of people did the British government transport to be sold
                    into service in America? How did the people feel about the bringing in of
                    criminals? What did the English government do about the importation of slaves?
                    What laws were made about American manufactures? What three sorts of manufacture
                    were particularly restrained? What was the object of the navigation laws? In
                    whose hands was the enforcement of the navigation laws? What kind of writs did
                    the custom-house officers for in 1761? What right did the "writs of assistance"
                    give to the officers? How did the people feel about this? Was there much thought
                    of separation? Would the colonies have separated from England when they did if
                    the English government had been wise? What act was passed in 1765? What did this
                    law require? What did the American people see in this measure? What cry was
                    raised in all the colonies? Who took the lead in the agitation in Virginia? Who
                    was the chief orator in Massachusetts? What effect did the excitement have on
                    the jealousies between the colonies? When did the " Stamp-Act congress" meet?
                    Where? Did the people stop with orderly measures? What took place in many of the
                    colonies? Were many stamps sold? What pledge did the merchants make? What did
                    the people refuse to wear? In what kind of goods did they dress themselves? Why
                    did they refuse to eat mutton? Who now joined in the clamor for the repeal of
                    the Stamp Act? Why 
                        Question for study.
                    
                     did the merchants wish it repealed?
                    When was it repealed? What bill did Parliament pass when it repealed the Stamp
                    Act? What was done about taxing America? What was done about gathering troops?
                    Did the colonies quarter the troops? What took place in 1770? What is this
                    occurrence called? What effect did it have? When the taxes were taken off of
                    other articles, what articles was still taxed? How did the British government
                    seek to make this agreeable to the Americans? Why would they not accept an
                    arrangement which made tea cheaper? What did the people drink instead of tea?
                    What happened when the government sent tea to Boston? What is this occurrence
                    called? What did New York do about the tea? What did Philadelphia do? What
                    became of the tea sent to Chraleston? What of a consignment of tea at Annapolis?
                    How did the English Parliament punish Boston for her part in the tea business?
                    What was the effect of the closing of the port on the people of Boston? How did
                    the other colonies feel about it? What did the New York committee suggest?
                
                    
                        I. Old causes of dissatisfaction.
                        
                            
                                1. Character of the governors.
                            
                            
                                2. Transportation of criminals and slaves.
                            
                            
                                3. Laws about manufactures and navigation.
                            
                            
                                4. Writs of assistance.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. The Stamp Act of 1765.
                        
                            
                                1. Its nature.
                            
                            
                                2. The excitement in America.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. No taxation without
                                            representation.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Patrick Henry.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. James Otis.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            d. The "Stamp-Act
                                            congress."
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                3. The mobs.
                            
                            
                                4. The agreement against English goods.
                            
                            
                                5. Repeal of the act.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. New measures of oppression.
                        
                            
                                1. Parliament claims the right to tax.
                            
                            
                                2. Imposes new taxes.
                            
                            
                                3. Tries to quarter troops at the expense of the
                                    colonies.
                            
                            
                                4. "The Boston Massacre."
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The duty on tea.
                        
                            
                                1. The new plan of taxing tea.
                            
                            
                                2. Substitutes used.
                            
                            
                                3. Boston Tea-Party.
                            
                            
                                4. Tea in New York, Philadelphia, Charleston, and
                                    Annapolis.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. The closing of the port of Boston.
                        
                            
                                1. The effect on Boston.
                            
                            
                                2. The sympathy of the other colonies.
                            
                            
                                3. The calling of the congress.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXVIII.
                The Outbreak of the Revolution and Declaration
                    of Independence.
                THOUGH the Congress of the thirteen
                    colonies which met in Philadelphia in 1774 had no authority to make laws, the
                    people chose to obey its recommendations and to disobey the governors sent to
                    them from England. The Congress petitioned the king and Parliament to restore
                    their rights. But meanwhile the colonies organized the militia, and collected
                    military stores, that they might be ready to fight for their liberties.
                
                    PINE-TREE FLAG, USED ABOUT BOSTON AT THE BEGINNING
                        OF THE REVOLUTION.
                
                
                    The Congress of 1774.
                
                General Gage was in command of the British forces at Boston. He
                    resolved to check the rebellious spirits of the people. He sent out troops from
                    Boston soon after midnight on April 19, 1775, to story some military stores at
                    Concord, about twenty miles away. The Americans had formed companies ready to be
                    called out on the minute; these were called "Minute-men." At Lexington the
                    British troops fired on the minute-men and killed eight of them. At Concord the
                    soldiers destroyed the stores.
                
                    British troops sent from Boston to Concord.
                
                
                    GENERAL GAGE.
                
                But the minute-men were now pouring in form the whole country, and
                    the English troops beat a hasty retreat back through Lexington. The Americans,
                    swarm 
                        The battle of Lexington and the beginning of the
                        Revolution.
                    
                    
                        Paul Revere, an engraver and an active patriot, was sent to
                            tell Adams and Hancock, who were at Lexington, that the British were
                            coming. He waited at Charlestown until he saw a light hung in a
                            church-steeple, which was a signal to him that the British were moving.
                            Then he rode to Lexington, warning the people of their danger. (See
                            Longfellow's famous poem on the subject.)
                    
                     ing like maddened bees, attacked
                    them in the rear, in front, and on both sides. The minute-men fired form behind
                    trees, rocks, and stone fences. The English retreated in a state of exhaustion,
                    with a loss in killed and wounded of nearly three hundred men; the Americans
                    lost about eighty-five. Messengers on horseback carried the news of the "battle
                    of Lexington," as it was called, all over New England and into the Middle and
                    Southern colonies. The people now knew that the war so long threatened had
                    begun.
                
                    ETHAN ALLEN.
                
                
                    Capture of Ticonderoga. Soon after the battle of Lexington, Ethan
                        Allen, at the head of eighty backwoodsmen from Vermont, Known as "Green
                        Mountain Boy," made a sudden descent on Fort Ticonderoga, near the south end
                        of Lake Champlain. Entering the fort in the night, he found the commander in
                        bed, and summoned him to surrender. "In whose name?" demanded the officer.
                        "In the name of the great Jehovah and the Continental Congress!" replied
                        Allen. With the fort Allen secured a supply of powder, then very much needed
                        by the Americans.
                
                After the battle of Lexington, an irregular army of New-Englanders
                    blockaded the English troops in Boston. A detachment sent to encamp on Bunker
                    Hill threw up breastworks on Breed's Hill instead. Here the British attacked
                    them with nearly double their force, and, though the Americans were farmers who
                    had never fought, and 
                        The battle of Bunker Hill.
                    
                    
                        RUNS OF TICONDEROGA.
                    
                     had almost nothing but
                    fowling-pieces to fight with, they twice repulsed the British regulars with
                    great slaughter, and, when their ammunition was exhausted, fought with the butts
                    and barrels of their guns until compelled to retreat. One third of the British
                    force was killed or wounded, and the result of the battle was to give great
                    confidence to the Americans, who have always regarded the battle of Bunker Hill,
                    as it was called, more as a victory than a defeat.
                
                
                Meantime it fell to the Continental Congress, in session in
                    Philadelphia, to elect a commander-in-chief for the new army. Colonel George
                    Washington, of Virginia, who had gained distinction for zeal, courage, and
                    prudence in the French and Indian wars, was chosen to this responsible place. He
                    declined all pay except his expenses. He set out of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
                    where he took command on July 3, 1775.
                
                    Washington made commander-in-chief.
                
                
                    Early Life of Washington. George Washington was born in Virginia,
                        February 22, 1732. His father was a planter, with a large landed property;
                        his mother was a woman of great force of character, but, like many ladies of
                        that day, she had little education. Washington got such education as the
                        poor country schools of the time afforded, but he made the most of it. His
                        exercise-books are models of method and neatness. Besides the common
                        branches of reading, writing, and arithmetic, he learned surveying and
                        book-keeping. He was a lad of great strength, and took the lead in all
                        athletic sports, and he became, one of the best horsemen of his time. He
                        bore hardships with great resolution, he spoke the truth, he was economical,
                        industrious, and systematic in his habits. He was, while yet hardly more
                        than a boy, engaged in surveying wild lands for Lord Fairfax, an English
                        nobleman, who owned a great tract of Virginia territory, and lived in the
                        Shenandoah Valley. He thus came to know the frontier country and the habits
                        of the Indians. He was made a major of the militia at nineteen, and he was
                        but twenty-one when Governor Dinwiddie sent him on a mission to the French
                        posts on the Ohio, as we have told in another chapter. By his prudent
                        conduct in Broddock's and Forbes's expeditions, and in the defense of the
                        Virginia frontier, he won the confidence of the American people. He was a
                        member of the Continental congress of 1774. He was not a brilliant man, but
                        even in 1774 Patrick Henry pronounced him, for "solid information and sound
                        judgment, unquestionably the greatest man" on the floor of the Continental
                        Congress.
                
                Washington brought his irregular army to a tolerable state of
                    organization, and closely besieged the British in Boston until March of the next
                    year, 1776, when he sent a strong force to occupy and fortify Dorchester
                    Heights, which commanded the harbor and the town. This forced the English to
                    withdraw their troops from Boston to Halifax, in Nova Scotia.
                
                    The English evacuate Boston.
                
                
                    FLAG BORNE BY AMERICAN TROOPS AT THE SOUTH AT THE
                        BEGINNING OF THE REBVOLUTION.
                
                Up to this time the Americans had been fighting for their liberties
                    as British subjects. But now they were everywhere weaned form attachment to
                    England. The 
                        Independence declared.
                    
                     colonies, one after another, formed
                    constitutions independent of England, or took steps looking toward independence.
                    On the fourth day of July, 1776, the Continental congress adopted the
                    "Declaration of Independence." This act was formal separation of the united
                    colonies from England, whose king was no more to be king in the thirteen
                    colonies. Thomas Jefferson, of Virginia, wrote this eloquent declaration, which
                    will never be forgotten.
                
                    RATTLESNAKE FLAG, USED AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
                        REVOLUTION. IT SOMETIMES BORE FOR MOTTO, "DON'T TREAD ON ME!"
                
                The Declaration says: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: That
                    all men are born equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
                    unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of
                    happiness." The Declaration of Independence gives an account of the various acts
                    of tyranny which the colonies had suffered under the government of Gorge III,
                    and then says: "We therefore, the representatives of the United Sates of America
                    in general Congress assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for
                    the rectitude of out intentions, 
                        The Declaration of Independence.
                    
                    
                        Thomas Jefferson was born near Charlottesville, Va., in 1743.
                            His father was a noted land-surveyor, and one of the authors of a map of
                            Virginia. He left an ample fortune. Thomas was an eager student. He
                            graduated at William and Mary College, and was soon recognized as
                            perhaps the most accomplished general scholar in the colonies. He was an
                            excellent mathematician, and knew Greek, Latin, French, Spanish, and
                            Italian. There was almost no knowledge that he was not eager to acquire.
                            He was not gifted as an orator, but with his eloquent pen he rendered
                            great services to the cause of liberty in America. He wrote the
                            Declaration of Independence, the most famous state-paper in the world.
                            He used his best endeavor to have slavery and the slave-trade abolished.
                            He took the lead in abolishing the colonial laws that gave to the oldest
                            son the largest share of the father's property. He was also the leader
                            in separating church and state, and giving to the people religious
                            freedom. To him we own the charge of our money form pounds, shillings,
                            and pence to a simple decimal system of dollars, dimes, and cent. To
                            him, also, was due the purchase from France of the territory west of the
                            Mississippi. He was the third President of the United States, chosen in
                            the year 1800, and was elected for a second term in 1804. He died on the
                            4th of July, 1826, just fifty years to a day from the adoption of the
                            Declaration of Independence, and the aged John Adams, second President,
                            died on the same day.
                    
                     do, in the name and by the authority
                    of these colonies, solemnly publish and declare, that these Untied Colonies are,
                    and of right ought to be, free and independent States." It closes with these
                    words: "And for the support of this declaration with a firm reliance on the
                    protection of Divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other out lives, our
                    fortunes, and our sacred honor."
                Where did the Congress of 1774 meet? Did it have any authority to
                    make laws? How did the people treat its recommendations? How did they treat the
                    governors sent from England? To whom did the Congress address petitions? What
                    did the colonies do in order to be ready to fight if necessary? Who was in
                    command of the British forces at Boston? What did he resolve to check? At what
                    time of night did he send out troops form 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                     Boston? On what day of what month
                    was this? In what year? What were these troops to destroy? Where were the
                    military stores? How far away is Concord from Boston? What took place at
                    Lexington as the troops passed through? Who were called minute-men? How many
                    minute-men were killed in this first fire? What did the British troops do at
                    Concord? Who were now pouring in from the whole country? What did the English
                    troops do? What did the Americans do? How many did the English lose? How was the
                    news carried? What war did this battle begin? What kind of an army blockaded the
                    English in Boston after the battle of Lexington? On what hill was a detachment
                    sent to encamp? On what hill did they throw up breastworks? How much stronger
                    than the Americans was the force sent to attack them? What kind of troops were
                    the Americans? What kind guns did they have? How did they fight? What did they
                    do when their ammunition was exhausted? What portion of the British force was
                    killed and wounded? What was the result of the battle? How have the Americans
                    always regarded it?
                By whom was a commander-in-chief of the army elected? Whom did the
                    Congress choose for this place? What qualities had given him distinction in the
                    French and Indian wars? What did Washington do about salary? Where did he go to
                    take command of they army? On what day did he take command? Where were the
                    British whom Washington now besieged? To what heights did he send a force? In
                    what moth was this? When the Americans had taken possession of Dorchester
                    Heights what were the English forced to do? What had the Americans been fighting
                    for up to this time? What did one colony after another do? What declaration did
                    Congress adopt? On what day? What was this act a separation from? Who wrote the
                    Declaration of Independence? Tow truths are held to be self-evident in the
                    Declaration of Independence: what is the first one? What unalienable rights are
                    said to belong to all men? Of what acts of tyranny does the Declaration give an
                    account? What solemn declaration if then made? What pledge is given? (Give as
                    nearly as possible the exact words of the Declaration.)
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Preparation for the Revolution.
                    
                    
                        II. Battle lf Lexington.
                    
                    
                        III. Battle of Bunker Hill.
                    
                    
                        IV. Appointment of Washington.
                    
                    
                        V. Recovery of Boston.
                    
                    
                        VI. Declaration of Independence.
                    
                
                
                General Gage sent out troops to destroy some military stores at ,
                    about miles from Boston. The Americans had companies called . These attacked and
                    drove in the troops. This is called the battle of . The Americans sent a force
                    which encamped on Hill, now commonly called Hill. The English attacked them and
                    carried the works with great loss. Colonel , of Virginia, was appointed
                    general-in-chief of the American forces, and took command at . In March
                    following he sent a force to occupy Heights, commanding Boston; this obliged the
                    troops to evacuate the town.
                
                    Skeleton summary.
                
                The region about Boston. Make a diagram of, or otherwise locate with
                    reference to Boston, Lexington, Concord, Bunker Hill, Dorchester (now South
                    Boston) Heights.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXIX.
                The Battle of Trenton and the Capture of
                    Burgoyne's Army.
                THE people received the Declaration
                    with joy. Pictures of the king were destroyed; his coat-of-arms was torn down
                    form public buildings and thrown into the patriotic bonfires. The leaden statue
                    of George III, 
                        Joy of the people at the news of the Declaration of
                            Independence.
                    
                    
                        KING GEORGE III.
                    
                    
                        DESTROYING THE STATUE OF GEORGE III AT THE
                            BOWLING GREEN, IN NEW YORK CITY.
                    
                     which stood in Bowling Green, in New
                    York city, was run into bullets.
                But the joy of the Americans was soon turned into anxiety. About the
                    time of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, General Howe landed al
                    large body of English troops on Staten Island, near New York, 
                        Arrival fo an English army near New York.
                    
                    
                        THE RETREAT FROM LONG ISLAND.
                    
                     and a few days later his brother,
                    Admiral Lord Howe, came with re-enforcements.
                The battle of Long Island was fought near Brooklyn, on the 27th of
                    August, 1776. In this battle the Americans were defeated, and Washington
                    withdrew his troops from Brooklyn, and left the whole of Long Island in the
                    hands of the British. The Americans were not strong enough to hold New York, and
                    it was soon evacuated. Fort Washington, above New York, with two thousand
                    Americans, was captured by the British, who soon crossed the Hudson. Washington
                    was obliged to retreat, step by step, across New Jersey into Pennsylvania.
                
                    ADMIRAL LORD HOWE.
                
                
                    The battle of Long Island, and the evacuation of New York by the
                        Americans.
                
                The American cause seemed on the verge of ruin. It was necessary to
                    strike some blow to hearten the people. The English government had hired a body
                    of Hessian soldiers, men from that part of Germany called Hesse-Cassel
                    [hess-cas'-sel], to assist in subduing the Americans. Fifteen hundred of these
                    were stationed in Trenton. Washington crossed the Delaware River, above Trenton,
                    on the night of Christmas, with twenty-five hundred men. The river was so full
                    of floating ice that it took Washington all night to get over with his men. The
                    Hessians were, as Washington expected, stupefied by their Christmas revelries of
                    the night before. The Americans surprised them at eight in the morning. About a
                    thousand prisoners were taken.
                
                    Washington crosses the Delaware and captures Trenton.
                
                
                    A HESSIAN TROOPER.
                
                A little later the British advanced upon Trenton and put Washington
                    in great danger, because he could not retreat across the river in the presence
                    of the enemy. He saved himself by a bold move. Building up his camp-fires, so as
                    to deceive the enemy, he moved around 
                        Battle of Princeton.
                    
                     the British force and attacked and
                    captured Princeton in their rear. This forced the British to fall back to New
                    Brunswick, and left the most of New Jersey in the hands of the Americans.
                In 1777 General Burgoyne was sent to force his way down from Canada,
                    through Lake Champlain and Lake George, to the Hudson. He was expected to
                    capture Albany, and make a junction with the British forces about New York. The
                    effect of this would have been to cut the United Colonies in two.
                
                    AMERICAN FLAG, ADOPTED IN 1777.
                
                
                    Burgoyne's expedition.
                
                Burgoyne compelled General St. Clair to evacuate Ticonderoga and
                    captured the artillery and all the stores which St. Clair was trying to move. He
                    then went to Skenesborough, now Whitehall, at the south end of Lake Champlain.
                    At length he reached the Hudson at Fort Edward, having gained complete control
                    of Lake Champlain and Lake George.
                
                    Fall of Ticonderoga.
                
                From Fort Edward, Burgoyne sent out a force of his hired German
                    troops into what is now Vermont, to capture stores and horses. But the militia
                    of western New England, who like almost all men in a new country were accustomed
                    to the use of fire-arms from childhood, gathered under the lead of General
                    Stark, and at the battle of Bennington utterly defeated the detachment sent out
                    by Burgoyne.
                
                    Battle of Bennington.
                
                
                    HESSIAN MADE PRISONER BY MILITIAMAN.
                
                The whole Northern country was up now. The ranks of the army under
                    General Gates, which opposed the march of Burgoyne, were quickly filled by
                    militia pouring in from New York and New England. In a hard-fought battle at
                    Bemis's Heights the  Americans won a
                    decisive victory. Burgoyne was soon hemmed in on every side by the increasing
                    American force. He tried in vain to get back to the lakes. His retreat was cut
                    off in every direction, and on the 16th of October he surrendered his whole
                    army. This victory delivered the American cause from the greatest peril, and
                    brought joy without measure to the people.
                
                    GENERAL GATES.
                
                How did the people receive the Declaration of Independence? How did
                    they show their dislike to the king, George III? What became of his leaden
                    statue in New York?
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What turned the joy of the Americans to anxiety? What English general
                    landed on Staten Island? Near what city is Staten Island? Who brought
                    re-enforcements to General Howe? Near what city was the battle of Long Island
                    fought? In what month? Who were defeated in this battle? What did Washington do
                    after the battle? Why did he evacuate New York? What fort did the British
                    capture? What river did the British cross after capturing Fort Washington?
                    Across what State did Washington retreat? Into what State? What were the
                    prospects of the American cause at this time? What kind of soldiers had the
                    English hired? Where were the Hessians from? How many Hessians were in Trenton
                    at this time? What river was between Washington's army and Trenton? At what time
                    of the year did Washington and his troops cross? What made it hard to get over?
                    By what were the Hessians stupefied? At what time in the morning did the
                    Americans attack them? How many prisoners were taken? When the British advanced
                    against Washington, in Trenton, why was he in danger? How did he save himself?
                    What effect did this have on the British?
                In what year was Burgoyne's expedition sent from Canada? Through what
                    lakes did Burgoyne move? Toward what river? What city did he expect to capture?
                    With what English forces was he to make a junction? What would have been the
                    effect of this? What fort did Burgoyne force General St. Clair to 
                        HESSIAN TROOPER'S BOOT.
                    
                     evacuate? To what place did Burgoyne
                    then go? Where did he reach the Hudson? Of what lakes had he gained control?
                
                Into what region did Burgoyne send out a detachment? For what purpose
                    were they sent? Under what general did the militia of New England gather? What
                    happened at the battle of Bennington to the detachment which Burgoyne had sent
                    out?
                In what battle was Burgoyne's army defeated? What did he try to do?
                    Finding he could not retreat, what took place? What was the effect of this
                    victory on the Americans?
                Tell about
                
                    
                        Events following the Declaration.
                        
                            
                                1. Joy of the people at the Declaration of
                                    Independence.
                            
                            
                                2. Landing of Howe.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Long Island and other English
                                successes.
                            
                            
                                4. Battle of Trenton.
                            
                            
                                5. Battle of Princeton.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Burgoyne's expedition.
                        
                            
                                1. Its purpose.
                            
                            
                                2. Burgoyne's successes.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Bennington.
                            
                            
                                4. Defeat of Burgoyne.
                            
                            
                                5. Surrender of Burgoyne's army.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    Skeleton summaries.
                
                
                    
                        1. British successes. About the time of the Declaration of
                            General Howe landed on Island. The were defeated in the battle of Long
                            Island. It was fought near , August 27, 17 . Washington soon after
                            evacuated . Fort , above New York, was captured by the , and Washington
                            was obliged to retreat into .
                    
                    
                        2. Washington's successes. The English had a body of hired
                            German soldiers stationed in . Washington crossed the on the night of ,
                            and attacked them at eight o'clock in the morning. He took prisoners.
                            When the English advanced to Trenton, he attacked and took in their
                            rear, and forced them to fall back, leaving nearly the whole State of in
                            his hands.
                    
                    
                    
                        3. Burgoyne's campaign. Burgoyne's advance from Canada took
                            place in the year 17. He forced St. Clair to abandon Fort , and got
                            possession of Lake and Lake , and reached the River at Fort Edward. He
                            sent out an expedition into what is now the State of , which was
                            defeated by American militia in the battle of . Burgoyne's army was
                            defeated in the battle of Heights, and surrendered on the 16th of ,
                            1777.
                    
                
                In what direction could the English pass from Staten Island to Long
                    Island? Form Long Island to New York? From New York Island to New Jersey? In
                    what part of New Jersey is Trenton? What direction is Princeton from Trenton? In
                    what part of New Jersey is New Brunswick? In what direction did Burgoyne move
                    from Canada to Ticonderoga? On what lake is Ticonderoga? By what water would one
                    pass from Ticonderoga to Whitehall? What lake lies south of the main body of
                    Lake Champlain? On what river is Fort Edward? In what State? In what direction
                    from Fort Edward is Bemis's Heights? From Fort Edward, in what direction from
                    Fort Edward is Bemis's Heights? From Fort Edward, in what direction is
                    Bennington? In what State?
                
                    Geographical inquiries.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER YXX.
                The Dark Period of the Revolution.
                THE overthrow of Burgoyne relieved
                    the American cause of one great danger, but it was sorely beset in other
                    quarters. General Howe had taken his army around by sea, and landed at the head
                    of Chesapeake Bay, in order to capture Philadelphia, which was then the seat of
                    Congress. Washington's army was inferior to the British, and he retired behind
                    the Brandywine River, where, on the 11th of September, 1777, was fought the
                    battle known as "The 
                        The battle of the Brandywine Sept, 11, 1777.
                    
                    
                        GENERAL BURGOYNE.
                    
                    
                        GENERAL SIR WILLIAM HOWE.
                    
                     Battle of the Brandy wine." The
                    Americans were forced to retreat, and the British entered Philadelphia.
                On the 4th of October Washington attacked the British at Germantown,
                    near Philadelphia, but he was again defeated.
                
                    Battle of Germantown, Oct. 4, 1777.
                
                
                    LA FAYETTE.
                
                
                    The Marquis de La Fayette was born of an illustrious French
                        family on the 7th of September, 1757. He was but nineteen years old, with
                        every prospect which great wealth and family influence could give, when he
                        embraced the cause of liberty in America. Against the command of the King of
                        France, he freighted a ship at his own expense, and landed in America in
                        1777, to offer his services as a simple volunteer. He quickly won the favor
                        of Congress and the life-long friendship of Washington. He was made
                        major-general, and though so young, showed considerable ability as a
                        commander. His conduct was always prudent. He was wounded at the Brandywine,
                        and he distinguished himself by a masterly retreat from Barren Hill and fine
                        conduct at the battle of Monmouth. In Virginia, when Cornwallis threatened
                        him with a superior force, and boasted that the "little boy," as he called
                        La Fayette, could not get away from him, the young marquis avoided a battle,
                        and prepared by his skillful movements for the final success at Yorktown. La
                        Fayette was all his life a lover of liberty and order. He took a brave part
                        in the French Revolution, but refused to go to extremes. He was arrested and
                        imprisoned for years in Austria, in spite of American efforts to relieve
                        him. At the instance of Bonaparte he was freed in 1797. He visited the
                        United States in 1824, when he was welcomed as the guest of the nation. He
                        made the tour of the country, rejoicing in its prosperity. He was everywhere
                        received with enthusiasm by those whose fathers he had helped in their hour
                        of distress. Congress voted him $200,000 and a township of land for his
                        losses and expenses in the Revolution. Though an old man, he took part in
                        the French Revolution of 1830, and remained the devoted friend of human
                        liberty until his death in 1834.
                
                The winter of 1777-'78 was the darkest season of the Revolution.
                    Washington went into winter-quarters at Valley Forge. Congress had no money.
                    Many of the soldiers were without shoes, and in their marches over frozen ground
                    they left blood in their tracks. Some of the poor fellows sat up by the fires at
                    night, for want of blankets to keep them warm.
                
                    Winter quarters at Valley Forge. 1777-'78.
                
                The war of the colonies against England had excited much sympathy in
                    Europe. Many foreign officers had come over to assist the Americans. Some of
                    these were mere adventures, but others were men of ability and generous spirit.
                    Such was the young 
                        BARON STEUBEN.
                    
                     French nobleman La Fayette; Count
                    Pulaski, Baron Steuben, and Baron De Kalb were also excellent officers.
                
                    Arrival of La Fayette and other foreign officers.
                
                
                    PULASKI.
                
                France had from the first taken a lively interest in the fate of
                    America, partly from a jealous dislike of England, partly from the love of
                    liberty that was growing among the French people. The courageous persistence
                    with which Washington attacked Howe's army at Germantown made a strong
                    impression in France, and on the 30th of January, 1778, a treaty of alliance
                    between France and the united States was signed. This was received in America
                    with the greatest joy.
                
                    The alliance with France, 1778.
                
                
                    DE KALB.
                
                The first result of the alliance with France was the recovery of
                    Philadelphia. Sir Henry Clinton, who had succeeded Howe in command of the
                    British army, was afraid that the French might blockade the Delaware, and thus
                    shut him up in Philadelphia. He therefore retreated across New Jersey to New
                    York, pushed by Washington's army. During this retreat the battle of Monmouth
                    was fought. The Americans gained a partial victory, the English retreating under
                    cover of night.
                
                    British retreat from Philadelphia, and the battle of Monmouth,
                        June 18, 1778.
                
                
                    SIR HENRY CLINTON.
                
                When the war had lasted three or four years, the British government
                    became convinced that it was a most difficult task to subdue the Northern and
                    Middle States. The people could not be subdued even when the armies 
                        The British conquer Georgia and South Carolina. Americans
                            defeated at the battle of Camden, 1780.
                    
                     were beaten. But as there were more
                    slaves, and as the white population was more scattered, in the Southern States,
                    they supposed it might be easier to overrun them. At the close of the year 1778
                    the British captured Savannah, and Georgia was soon subjugated. In the next year
                    an attempt was made by the Americans, assisted by the French fleet, to capture
                    Savannah, but it failed. In this attempt Count Pulaski lost his life. After a
                    regular siege, a British fleet and army took Charleston in May, 1780. General
                    Gates, who had commanded the Northern army when Burgoyne surrendered, was put in
                    command of all the American troops at the South. But Gates was utterly beaten,
                    and his whole army routed and dispersed, by the British under Cornwallis, at the
                    battle of Camden, in South Carolina. There was no longer any American army
                    worthy of the name in the whole South.
                
                    GENERAL MOULTRIE.
                
                
                    GENERAL LINCOLN, WHO DEFENDED CHARESSTON IN
                    1780.
                
                
                    Sergeant Jasper.In 1776 the British fleet attacked Fort Sullivan,
                        in Charleston harbor, which was successfully defended by General Moultrie.
                        During the hottest of the fire, the flag of the fort, which bore the device
                        of a crescent, was shot away. A sergeant named Jasper leaped down outside
                        the fort and recovered the flag, which he fixed to a sponge-staff. This he
                        stuck in the sand and then returned unharmed to the fort. For this act the
                        governor of South Carolina gave him his own sword. In 1779 he was engaged in
                        the attack on Savannah, when the colors of his own regiment were shot away.
                        Jasper tried to replace them on a parapet, but he was mortally wounded. In
                        this condition he brought away his colors.
                
                But in the Sought, as in the North, the British could not gain
                    permanent advantages. Though the Americans shrank from entering the army, which
                    was 
                        Sumter and Marion maintain a partisan warfare in South
                            Carolina.
                    
                    
                        One of the most brilliant enterprises of the war was the
                            capture of Stony Point, on the Hudson. General Wayne led a force of
                            Americans, by defiles in the mountains, to within a mile and a half of
                            the fort on the evening of July 15, 1779. To prevent discovery, all the
                            dogs on the road were killed. At midnight the Americans moved on the
                            fort. The advanced guard carried empty guns with fixed bayonets, and
                            thus faced the fire of the defenders as they rushed over the works and
                            made the British garrison prisoners.
                    
                     poorly paid and badly fed, they
                    refused to be subdued. Sumter and Marion mustered considerable bodies of South
                    Carolina militia. These men knew the country perfectly; they lurked in the
                    forests and swamps, coming out from time to time to strike the British where
                    they were weakest.
                Where did General Howe take his army in order to capture
                    Philadelphia? Behind what river did Washington retire? In what year was the
                    battle of the Brandywine fought? Who were forced to retreat? What city did the
                    British enter? In what month in 1777 did Washington attack the British in
                    Germantown? Near what city is Germantown? (It is now a part of Philadelphia.)
                    What was the result of the battle of Germantown? What was the state of feeling
                    in Europe about the war in the colonies? Who came over to assist the Americans?
                    What was the character of some of these officers? What kind of men were others
                    of them? From what country was La Fayette? From what country was Pulaski? What
                    other two officers are mentioned? What country had from the first taken a lively
                    interest in the American struggle? Why was France interested? What made a strong
                    impression in France? When was the treaty of alliance between France and America
                    signed? How was the news of this treaty received in America? What was the first
                    result of the treaty with France? Of what was Clinton afraid? What did he do?
                    What battle was fought during his retreat from Philadelphia to New York? After
                    three or four years of war in the Northern and Middle States, to what conclusion
                    did the British government come? Why did they think if easier to conquer the
                    Southern States? What city did the British capture at the close of the year
                    1778? What State was soon subdued? Who assisted the Americans in the recapture
                    of Savannah in 1779? What was the result? What distinguished officer lost his
                    life in this attack? What city did the British fleet and army capture in 1780?
                    Who was put in command of the American army in the South? In what battle was
                    Gates utterly beaten? What became of his army? In what State is Camden?
                
                    GENERAL MARION.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                Why could the British not gain permanent  advantages in the South? Who mustered considerable bodies of
                    South Carolina militia? Where did they lurk?
                Tell about 
                        
                            I. The darkest hour.
                            
                                
                                    1. The battle of the Brandywine.
                                
                                
                                    2. The loss of Philadelphia.
                                
                                
                                    3. The battle of Germantown.
                                
                                
                                    4. The winter at Valley Forge.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            II. Foreign aid and brighter prospects.
                            
                                
                                    1. Foreign officers.
                                
                                
                                    2. Alliance with France.
                                
                                
                                    3. Retreat of the British from Philadelphia.
                                
                                
                                    4. The battle of Monmouth.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            III. The British overrun Georgia and South Carolina.
                            
                                
                                    1. Reason for attacking the South.
                                
                                
                                    2. The taking of Savannah.
                                
                                
                                    3. The American fail to recapture it.
                                
                                
                                    4. The siege and capture of Charelston.
                                
                                
                                    5. Defeat of Gates at Camden.
                                
                                
                                    6. The guerrilla war of Marion and Sumter.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                In what State was the battle of the Brandywine fought? In what
                    direction is the battle-field from Philadelphia? On which side of Philadelphia
                    is Germantown? In what direction from Philadelphia is Valley Forge? In what
                    State is Monmouth, where the battle was fought? In what State is Savannah? In
                    what State is Charleston? In what direction from Charleston is Camden?
                
                    Questions in Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXI.
                The Closing Years of the Revolution.
                IT was in 1780, when the affairs of
                    the Americans were at a very low point, that there occurred the treason of
                    Benedict Arnold. Arnold was a brave soldier and a brilliant leader, but in all
                    the affairs of life he had proved himself something of a scoundrel. He had led
                    an 
                        UNIFORMS OF FRENCH SOLDIERS IN AMERICA.
                    
                    
                        BENEDICT ARNOLD.
                    
                     expedition against Quebec, and had
                    shown great courage at Bemis Heights. He had been accused of fraud in his
                    accounts, and had been once sentenced to be publicly reprimanded. Arnold opened
                    a correspondence with the British general, and afterward got himself appointed
                    to the command of the posts in the Highlands of the Hudson in order to betray
                    them. Major Andre [an-dray], of the British army, was sent to arrange with
                    Arnold the surrender of these posts. On his way back to New York Andre was
                    captured by three men who refused all the rewards which he offered them, and
                    delivered him and his papers, which were in Arnold's handwriting, to the nearest
                    American officer. Andr was tried and hanged for a spy. Arnold had time to escape
                    to the British army, in which he fought with great vindictiveness against the
                    Americans. He afterward lived in England, detested by everybody as a traitor.
                
                    Treason of Benedict Arnold, 1780.
                
                
                    MAJOR ANDRE
                
                With the coming in of the year 1781, American prospects began to
                    brighten. Greene had taken command of what was left of the ruined army at the
                    South, which he immediately recruited and improved by strict discipline. At the
                    battle of the Cowpens, fought in South Carolina in January, 1781, a detachment
                    under Morgan defeated a British force under Tarleton. Greene skill fully
                    retreated for two hundred miles across North Carolina to the border of Virginia,
                    followed by Cornwallis. When Cornwallis moved to Hillsboro, Greene, 
                        Campaign of General Greene in the South, 1781
                    
                    
                        GENERAL NATHANAEL GREENE.
                    
                    
                        COLONEL TARLETON.
                    
                     re-enforced, again marched
                    southward, but managed to avoid a battle until he had gathered new troops. In
                    the severe battle of Guilford Court-House, Cornwallis drove the Americans from
                    the field at the close of the day, but his army was so badly shattered that he
                    was forced to begin a prompt retreat to the sea-coast, leaving his wounded in
                    the hands of the pursuing Americans. The scene of this battle is now called
                    Greensboro, in honor of General Greene.
                
                    ONE OF MORGAN'S RIFLEMEN
                
                Cornwallis, who was the ablest of all the English commanders in
                    America, made a junction with the British troops in Virginia, and Greene took
                    advantage of this to reconquer South Carolina from the English. Though often
                    checked and sometimes defeated, he had the satisfaction of recovering the three
                    Southern States so far that the English held only the three chief seaports,
                    Savannah, Charleston, and Wilmington.
                
                    Greene reconquers the most of the South.
                
                
                    LORD CORNWALLIS
                
                
                    ROCHAMBEAU
                
                
                    ROYAL FLAG OF FRANCE.
                
                
                    Battle of Yorktown and surrender of Cornwallis, October 18,
                    1781.
                
                Reaching Virginia, Cornwallis pushed the work of fighting and
                    destruction with his usual vigor. La Fayette, who was in command of the
                    Americans, showed much ability in avoiding a battle. Washington now marched his
                    forces to the southward, in company with a French army under Rochambeau [rosham
                    bo]. The French fleet blockaded the troops of Cornwallis at Yorktown, and the
                    American and French armies, co-operating in the friendlyest  way, laid siege to the place. On the 18th of October,
                    1781, the British army under Cornwallis surrendered, prisoners of war.
                
                    BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.
                
                The English people had grown weary of the war. The surrender of
                    Cornwallis took away from England the last hope of subduing American can
                    independence would be granted By England. Terms of peace were at length agreed
                    on at Paris in 1782, and a treaty was signed the following year. By this peace
                    England recognized the 
                        AMERICAN ARTILLERY DRAWN BY OXEN.
                    
                    
                        Benjamin Franklin. Franklin was the son of a tallow-chandler,
                            and was born in Boston in 1706. He learned the printer's trade in his
                            brother's office, and also did some rude engraving for the paper. He was
                            studious from child-hood. He went to Philadelphia at seventeen and
                            worked as a journeyman printer. After many vicissitudes he rose to the
                            ownership of a printing-office. He published an almanac, known as "Poor
                            Richard's," that became famous for its wise proverbs, and he printed and
                            edited the best newspaper in the American colonies. He became a student
                            of electricity, and in 1752, by means of a kite, he proved that the
                            lightning of the clouds was electricity. This discovery, and the
                            invention of the lightning-rod, made him famous. He promoted the
                            formation of literary institutions, and furthered the public welfare in
                            many ways. He went to London more than once as agent for his own and
                            other colonies, and was chiefly influential in securing the repeal of
                            the Stamp Act. He was in London as agent for several of the colonies
                            when the Revolution broke out, but he immediately returned to America.
                            He was one of the committee to draft the Declaration of Independence. He
                            went to France in 1776 as ambassador, and it was his skillful hand that
                            negotiated the treaty with that country, without which the Revolution
                            could hardly have succeeded. He assisted in making the treaty of peace
                            with England in 1782, and took part in framing the Constitution of the
                            United States in 1787. He died in Philadelphia in 1790, aged eighty-four
                            years. It was said of him that "he wrested the thunder from the sky and
                            the scepter from tyrants."
                    
                     independence of the United States.
                    Among those who negotiated the peace was the venerable Dr. Franklin.
                Washington, who was the idol of the people, resigned his command of
                    the army in 1783, bidding farewell to his troops, and returning to private life
                    at Mount Vernon, like a good citizen. His patience, wisdom, coolness, and
                    unselfish patriotism procured the successful end of the long struggle.
                
                    Washington retires to private tires to private life, 1783.
                
                What kind of a soldier was Benedict Arnold? What expedition had he
                    led? In what battle had he shown great courage? What accusation had been made
                    against him? What posts was he in command of? What British officer was sent to
                    arrange with him for the betrayal of these posts? How was Andre captured? What
                    became of Arnold? What was the fate of Andr? In what year did the prospects of
                    the American cause begin to brighten? How many years had the Revolution
                    continued in the spring of 1781? (It began in the spring of 1775subtract 1775
                    from 1781.) Who had taken command of it before? Where was the battle of Cowpens
                    fought? In what month and year? Who was beaten at Cowpens? How far did Greene
                    retreat, followed by Cornwallis? When Cornwallis marched to Hillsboro, what did
                    Greene do? Where did they fight a battle? Who held the ground after the battle
                    of Guilford Court-House? now called? Why is it called Greensboro? With whom did
                    Cornwallis now seek a junction? What advantage did General Greene take of this?
                    How successful was he? What did Cornwallis do when he reached Virginia? What
                    general was in command of the Americans in Virginia? How did La Fayette show
                    ability? Who commanded the French army that accompanied Washington? What part
                    did the French army that accompanied Washington? What part did the French army
                    that accompanied Washington? What part did the.
                
                    THE HEVOLUTION IN THE SOUTH
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                French fleet take in the siege of Yorktown? On what day did
                    Cornwallis surrender? How did the English people feel about the war at this
                    time? What effect did the surrender of Cornwallis have? In what year was peace
                    made? What did England recognize by this peace? What famous man was among those
                    who negotiated the peace on the part of America?
                
                What did Washington do when peace was made?
                
                    
                        I. The treason of Arnold.
                    
                    
                        II. Cornwallis and Greene in North Carolina.
                    
                    
                        III. Greene reconquers the greater part of the three Southern
                            States.
                    
                    
                        IV. Cornwallis and La Fayette in Virginia.
                    
                    
                        V. Siege and surrender of York town.
                    
                    
                        VI. The peace.
                    
                
                
                    REVOLUTIONARY POSTS IN THE HIGH-LANDS OF THE HUDSON AND THE LOWER
                        PART OF THAT RIVER.
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    Skeleton outline.
                
                
                    Geographical studies.
                
                In the year Benedict tried to betray to the English certain fortified
                    posts on the River. In the year 1781 the English under Tarleton were defeated by
                    the Americans under at , in South Carolina. Greene was defeated at Court-House,
                    in North Carolina, by the English under . Cornwallis afterward moved into
                    Virginia, and Greene reconquered all of the three Southern States except the
                    three cities, in North Carolina, in South Carolina, and in Georgia. Cornwallis
                    was besieged by the and Americans in in Virginia, and surrendered in October,
                    17. Peace was made at Paris in 17
                
                    a. The Highlands of the Hudsontheir location. b. Describe the location of, or point out on the
                    map, the Cowpens in South Carolina, and Hillsboro and Greensboro in North
                    Carolina. c. In what general direction would
                    Cornwallis move in going from Wilmington in North Carolina to Yorktown in
                    Virginia? d. On what river is Yorktown? In what
                    direction from Chesapeake Bay? From Norfolk?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXII.
                Traits and Incidents of the Revolutionary War.
                AT the outbreak of the Revolution the
                    American colonies had no navy. It was quite impossible for them to form a navy
                    that could contend with that of England, which was the best in the World. But
                    the Americans of that time were a sea-coast people, who did nearly all their
                    trading and traveling by water. They quickly fitted up some ships, that did good
                    execution. At the outbreak of the war the American army lacked powder, arms, and
                    clothing. While powder-factories were building, daring American seamen, North
                    and South, put to sea and captured supplies of powder from British ships. In
                    1776, ten thousand suits of winter uniform, on their way to Burgoyne's army,
                    were captured. These were sent to cloth the destitute American soldiers.
                
                    ESEK HOPKINS, FIRST COMMANDER OF THE AMERICAN
                    NAVY.
                
                
                    Early achievements of the Americans at sea.
                
                But the little navy rendered other and more important services.
                    Captain Nicholas Biddle gained much renown by his brilliant successes in a small
                    ship. John Paul Jones, a Scotch-man, had entered the American navy, and he soon
                    proved himself one of the best seamen and one of the most unconquerable fighters
                    that ever sailed the sea. He scoured the English and Irish coastsa terror of sea
                    and land. In the Bonhomme Richard [bon-om rish-ar'] he encountered the English
                        
                        AMERICAN SEAMAN, 1778.
                    
                    
                        JOHN PAUL JONES.
                    
                    
                        Captain Biddle's success. Paul Jones and the battle of the
                            Bonhomme Richard with the Serapis.
                    
                     man-of-war Ser'-a-pis, and, finding
                    no other chance for victory he ran alongside the enemy and lashed the two
                    together. After a bloody battle, lasting two hours, the English ship
                    surrendered. But the Bonhomme Richard was so badly cut to piece that Jones was
                    forced to transfer his crew to the Serapis, leaving his own ship to sink
                A great deal of destruction was done to English commerce by
                    privateersvessels of war fitted out by private individuals. The profits made,
                    even by common seamen, from prizes taken in this kind of war, drew many men into
                    it, and prevented enlistments in the army.
                
                    AN ENGLISH GRENADIER.
                
                
                    AMERICAN MARINE, 1776.
                
                
                    American privateers.
                
                There was always a difficulty about raising soldiers, because the
                    troops suffered much from a scarcity of the necessaries of life. Then, too, a
                    private soldier in that day was liable to punishment by flogging and other
                    degradations not relished by most Americans. But many of the people were always
                    ready to fight in an irregular way. The armies were often broken, but the people
                    were not subdued. The farmer-militia usually wore brown tow-shirts and carried
                    long fowling-pieces. Their ammunition was carried in powder-horn and shot-bag.
                
                    The American militia
                
                Bayonets were often lacking. At the battle of Saratoga one of the
                    divisions of the Americans had but one bayonet to every three men. It is said
                    that they often put one bullet and two buck-shot in a gun together. There were
                    many men among the Americans whose aim was very deadly. The riflemen from the
                    frontier 
                        REVOLUTIONARY POWDER-HORN AND CANTEEN
                    
                    
                        Arms of the Americans and their mode of fighting
                    
                     were capable of incredible accuracy
                    in shooting. Double-barreled guns were almost, though not quite, unknown at that
                    time. The percussion-cap had not yet been invented, but the old firelocks,
                    touched off by a burning fuse, had all disappeared. The small-arms were probably
                    all flint-locksguns and pistols that were set off by a flint striking a piece of
                    steel. There were no breech-loaders and no revolvers. Firing was much slower and
                    less effective than now. The bayonet was more important then than in recent
                    warfare.
                
                    AN AMERICAN RIFLEMAN FROM A PRINT OF THE TIME.
                
                The American troops suffered extreme hardships. The paper money
                    issued by Congress to pay the soldiers declined in value until it was almost
                    worthless. In more than one campaign the barefoot soldiers left blood on the
                    ground when they marched. To relieve the necessities of the soldiers, patriotic
                    women colleted blankets and sent them to the army.
                
                    Sufferings of the American soldiers
                
                When the Revolution broke out there were nearly three millions of
                    people in the American colonies. During the war the population increased, and,
                    notwithstanding the interruption of business and the destruction of property,
                    the wealth also increased. The loss of credit and the inefficiency and suffering
                    of the army were principally due to the weakness of the government. There were,
                    indeed, thirteen governments, bound together very loosely. Congress had no way
                    of making each State pay its proportion of the expense of the war, and so one
                    State waited for another. It was not until some years after the peace that a
                    strong government was formed
                
                    AN AMERICAN MAJOR GENERAL, FROM A PRINT OF THE
                        TIME.
                
                
                    A SOLDIER OF THE CONGRESS. FROM A DRAWING BY A
                        GERMAN OFFICER AT THE TIME
                
                
                    Weakness of the American government during the Revolution.
                
                
                What kind of a navy was that of England at the outbreak of the
                    American Revolution? What had the Americans to put against? Could they hope to
                    build one that would equal it? How did the Americans do their trading and
                    traveling in that time? What did they do in regard to ships? What did the army
                    lack? How was this in part supplied? What is said of Captain Nicholas Biddle?
                    What kind of a seaman was John Paul Jones? What was the name of the ship in
                    which he fought with the serapis? In what position were the ships during the
                    fight? What was the result of this desperate fight? What became of the Bonhomme
                    Richard? What is a privateer? What was accomplished by the privateers during the
                    Revolution? Why did many men prefer sailing in privateers to enlisting in the
                    army?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                    ISRAEL PUTNAM A NOTED GENERAL IN THE REVOLUTION
                
                What was the chief cause of the difficulty in raising troops? How
                    were the people ready to fight? What did the militia usually wear? What arms did
                    they carry? How did they carry their ammunition? What is said of the supply of
                    bayonets? What is said of their aim? What of double-barreled guns? How were the
                    guns set off at that time? Were there any breech-loaders and revolvers? What is
                    said of the use of the bayonet? What can you tell of the hardships suffered by
                    the troops? What was done to relieve the necessities of the soldiers? How many
                    people were there in the colonies when the Revolution broke out? Did the
                    population increase during the war? What was the cause of the loss of credit and
                    the suffering of the army? How many governments were there? Was there any strong
                    central government during the war?
                I. By sea.
                1. Capture of supplies.
                2. Captain Nicholas Biddle's brilliant successes
                3. John Paul Jones's exploits.
                4. Privateers.
                II War on land.
                1. Irregular militia; their equipments and modes of fighting.
                2. Fire-arms and sharp-shooting.
                3. Hardships of soldiers and their relief.
                II. The government.
                1. Population.
                2. Weakness of the government.
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    REVOLUTIONARY MUSKET CALLED "BROWN BESS"
                
                
                FOURTH REVIEWTHE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
                    Chapters XXV to XXXII.
                Government of the colonies (XXV.)
                Royal governments.
                Charter governments.
                Proprietary governments.
                Colonial Legislatures.
                Commercial laws made in England.
                Early struggles for liberty in the colonies. (XXVI.)
                Rebellion against Harvey in Virginia, 1635.
                Bacon's rebellion, 1676.
                Massachusetts contends for its charter.
                Rebellion against Andros, 1688.
                Connecticut charter hid in an oak.
                Leisler's rebellion in New York.
                Government overthrown in South Carolina.
                Legislatures resist the governors.
                Causes of the Revolution. (XXXVII.)
                General causes of discontent.
                The Writs of Assistance, 1761.
                The Stamp Act, 1765.
                Its repeal compelled, 1766.
                The tax on tea opposed.
                The Boston Port Bill.
                A congress called, 1774.
                The war begun. (XXVIII.)
                The first collision at Lexington, 1775.
                The battle of Bunker Hill.
                Washington appointed commander.
                Boston evacuated.
                Independence declared, 1776.
                Battles about New York and in New Jersey. (XXIX.)
                Battle of Long Island.
                Washington retreats to Pennsylvania.
                Capture of Trenton.
                Battle of Princeton.
                Burgoyne's campaign. (XXIX.)
                Burgoyne comes through the lakes, 1777.
                Fall of Ticonderoga.
                Burgoyne reaches the Hudson.
                Hessians defeated at a Bennington.
                Burgoyne defeated at Bemis Heights.
                Surrenders his army.
                
                The war about Philadelphia. (XXX.)
                Battle of the Brandy wine, 1777.
                Battle of Germantown.
                Winter at valley Forge.
                Arrival of La Fayette and others.
                Alliance with France, 1778.
                British retreat from Philadelphia.
                Battle of Monmouth.
                Georgia and South Carolina overrun. (XXX.)
                British take Savannah, 1778.
                Attempt to retake it, 1779.
                Charleston surrenders, 1778.
                Gates defeated at Camden.
                Sumter and Marion keep up resistance.
                Arnold's treason and death of Andr, 1780.(XXXI.)
                Greene at the South. (XXXI.)
                Battle of the Cowpens, 1781.
                Battle of Guilford Court-House.
                Most of the South recovered.
                Close of the war. (XXXI.)
                Cornwallis in Virginia, 1781.
                Surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown.
                Preliminaries of peace, 1782.
                Washington retires to Mount Vernon, 1783.
                The war at sea (XXXII.)
                First captures at sea.
                Paul Jones takes the Serapis.
                Destruction by privateers.
                American mililtia. (XXXII.)
                Irregular soldiers.
                Their arms and accoutrements.
                Their mode of fighting.
                Difficulties. (XXXII.)
                Sufferings of American soldiers.
                Lack of money.
                Weakness of the government.
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXIII.
                The Adoption of the Constitution.
                At the beginning of the Revolution the different colonies were
                    governed under charters of one kind or another from the king, as we have seen in
                    Chapter 
                        New State constitutions adopted during the war.
                    
                     XXV. After the war began, the most
                    of them adopted constitutions which established governments very much like those
                    they had been accustomed to. The chief difference was, that the authority of the
                    king was not recognized in the new government.
                The Congress of the Colonies was yet only a congress of men
                    representing thirteen different allied countries, for each State assumed to act
                    as an independent nation. A confederation was therefore proposed, which combined
                    all the states into one government for purposes of war and the regulation of
                    commerce. The Articles of Confederation were not accepted by all of the colonies
                    until 1781. This confederation left each State independent in the matter of
                    taxes. Much of the suffering of the American army during the Revolution came
                    from the lack of power in Congress to levy a tax without the assent of the
                    several States. The largest States had but one vote apiece in Congress; the
                    smallest had the same. This made a wretchedly weak government, which was soon
                    held in contempt at home and abroad.
                
                    The Articles of Confederation adopted
                
                But this weak government continued for several years after the closes
                    of the Revolution, until it became unbearable. In 1787 a convention met in
                    Philadelphia, to form a constitution better suited to give strength to the
                    nation. George Washington, who had retired to private life when the war was
                    over, was chosen president of this convention.
                
                    Meeting of the Constitutional Convention
                
                The Constitution adopted by this convention, which, with a few
                    amendments, is the one we now live under, was not to go into force until nine
                    States had adopted it. There was a strong party opposed to the Constitution, and
                    it was not until June, 1788, that the ninth State voted 
                        The Constitution adopted by the States.
                    
                     to adopt it. Rhode Island was the
                    last of the thirteen to accept it, which it did in 1790.
                Under the old confederation, the execution of the acts of Congress
                    was intrusted chiefly to committees of its own members. But the new Constitution
                    made an almost complete separation of the government into three parts, each of
                    which is confined to its own duties.
                
                    Three departments of the Federal government.
                
                First, the legislative, or law-making, department is called in the
                    Constitution "the Congress." It includes two bodiesa House of Representatives,
                    chosen by the people, and a Senate, chosen by the Legislatures of the several
                    States. In the House of Representatives the States have a greater or less number
                    of members, according to their population. In the Senate each State has two
                    members. A bill must get a majority of votes in both the House of
                    Representatives and the Senate, in order to become a law. It must also be
                    approved by the President. But, if the President refuses to sign it, then two
                    thirds of both the Senate and the House may pass it, and it becomes a law in
                    spite of the President's veto.
                
                    The legislative department
                
                Second, the executive department, which consists of the President
                    (and those appointed under him). The President is chosen for four years. He is
                    commander-in-chief of the army and navy. He appoints all the chief executive
                    officers, with the consent of the Senate. In case of the death of the President,
                    the Vice-President takes his place.
                
                    The executive department.
                
                Third, the judicial department consists of the Supreme Court of the
                    United States and such lower courts as Congress may establish. The President
                    appoints the judges of the United States courts, with the advice and consent of
                    the Senate.
                
                    The judicial department
                
                
                It is a great advantage of our systems of government that law-making
                    for the regulation of morals and the ordinary business of life is left to the
                    States, so that the people of each region can have laws suited to their
                    necessities. It is also a great source of strength that the general concerns of
                    the whole countrythe money, the foreign commerce, treaties with foreign nations,
                    and affairs of war and peaceare settled by the central government of the whole
                    country.
                
                    The division of power between the several States and the United
                        States.
                
                Before the Revolution, the Episcopal Church of England was
                    established in the Southern colonies, while the Congregational churches were
                    supported by law in all the New England colonies except Rhode Island. During the
                    Revolution, Thomas Jefferson led a movement in favor of religious freedom. Now
                    there is no religious establishment in any part of the country, but all are free
                    to worship in their own way. The Constitution provides that Congress shall not
                    interfere with religious freedom, or with the freedom of speech or the freedom
                    of the press.
                
                    Freedom of religion, of the press, and of speech.
                
                How were the colonies governed when the Revolutionary War broke out?
                    What did most of them do after the war began? Were the new governments founded
                    by the State constitutions like or unlike the old ones? What was the chief
                    difference between the old governments under the charter and the new ones under
                    the State constitutions? What did the first Congress represent? How did each
                    State assume to act? What was done to combine the States into one? For what
                    purposes was this combination formed? In what year were the Articles of
                    Confederation accepted by the last of the colonies? Under this confederation,
                    how were taxes to be raised? What was the cause of much of the suffering of the
                    American army during the war? How many votes did each State have in Congress?
                    Was there any difference in favour of the larger States? What kind of government
                    was the confederation? How was it regarded at home and abroad? Did this
                    government continue after the close of the Revolution? In what year was a
                    convention 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     called to adopt a new Constitution?
                    In what city did the convention meet? Who was President of the Constitutional
                    Convention of 1787?
                How many States were obliged to adopt the Constitution before it
                    could go into force? Was there any opposition to the Constitution? When did the
                    ninth State adopt it? To whom was the execution of the acts of Congress
                    instructed under the old confederation? Into how many departments did the new
                    Constitution separate the government?
                What is the legislative department of the government called? How many
                    "houses," or separate bodies, are there in Congress? What are they called? In
                    which house do the States have representatives according to their population?
                    How many senators are allowed to each State? How does a bill pass into a law?
                    After a bill has passed both houses of Congress by a majority of votes present,
                    what is necessary to make it a law? If the President vetoes an act by refusing
                    to sign it, how may it still become a law? Who is the head of the executive
                    department of government? For how long a term is a President chosen? What is his
                    relation to the army and navy? Whose consent is necessary when the President
                    appoints important executive officers? When the President dies, who takes his
                    place? What is the third department of the government called? Of what courts
                    does it consist? How are the judges in theses courts appointed? How are laws
                    relating to the ordinary business of life made under our system of government?
                    Why is this an advantage? Mention some of the things committed to the central
                    government of the whole country? What form of religious worship was established
                    by law in the Southern colonies before the Revolution? What form of worship was
                    established in New England? Who led a movement in favor of religious freedom? Is
                    there any religious establishment in any part of the United States now? What
                    does the Constitution provide regarding religious freedom? What two things
                    besides religion are to be free under the Constitution?
                
                    
                        I. The new State Constitutions.
                    
                    
                        II. A Confederation formed.
                    
                    
                        III. The Federal Constitution adopted.
                    
                    
                        IV Three departments of the government under the Constitution
                        
                            
                                1. The legislative department.
                            
                            
                                2. The executive department.
                            
                            
                                3. The judicial department.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The State and Federal governments.
                    
                    
                        V. Religious freedom, free speech, and a free press.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        The legislative department makes laws.
                    
                    
                        The executive department makes laws.
                    
                    
                        The judicial department decides questions relating to
                        laws.
                    
                
                
                    Blackboard.
                
                
                
                    GEORGE WASHINGTON. FROM A PAINTING BY GILBERT
                        STUART.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXIV.
                The New Republic and its People.
                WHEN the Constitution was adopted, a
                    new nation was formed out of thirteen States, which before that time had been
                    almost independent of one another. There was to be chosen a President of this
                    new nation and the whole country turned its eyes to one man. General Washington,
                    who had been for five years living quietly on his plantation at Mount Vernon,
                    was the only person thought of for President, and he was elected without a
                    rival. John Adams was chosen Vice-President.
                
                    Washington elected first President
                
                Washington was inaugurated President of the United States in the city
                    of New York, which was then the seat of government, on the 30th day of April,
                    1789.
                
                    Washington inaugurated, 1789.
                
                The country, when Washington became President, contained less than
                    four millions of people. The single State of New York has a larger population
                    than the, whole country had in Washington's time, and Pennsylvania also has
                    more, while Ohio and Illinois have each nearly as many. The census of 1890, when
                    it comes to added up, will doubtless show that in one hundred years the
                    population has increased to more than seventy millions, or to a least eighteen
                    times as many as there were when the first census was taken in 1790.
                
                    Population of the country at the beginning of Washington's
                        administration.
                
                The three or four millions of people in America, when the
                    Constitution made the States one nation, were settled chiefly along the Atlantic
                    coast. The center of population was east of Baltimore, on the eastern shore of
                    the Chesapeake Bay. This shows how closely the people clung to the sea, which
                    was almost the only great highway 
                        Population mostly along the seacoast.
                    
                     of their commerce. In traveling up
                    into the country, one found the population becoming more sparse, and the houses
                    generally mere cabins. By the time one reached the Alleghany Mountains, there
                    was an end of settlements. All to the west of the mountains was a wilderness,
                    filled with hostile savages and wild beasts, except the little pioneer
                    settlements in Kentucky and Tennessee. The western line of the territory of the
                    United States was the Mississippi River, but the unbroken forests and prairies
                    of that region seemed about as far away as the interior of Alaska does to-day.
                The people of the first years of the republic had neither railroad
                    nor steamboat. One of the commonest modes of travel from one town to another was
                    by sailing the length of the voyage; all depended on wind and weather.
                    Stage-wagons were also run between the larger towns. It took six days to make
                    the journey from Boston to New York, and two or three to get from New York to
                    Philadelphia. A journey required as many days then as it does hours now.
                
                    Modes of travel: sailing-vessels and stage-coaches.
                
                Many travelers made journeys in their own coaches or in light
                    two-wheeled vehicles. The ferries were a terror to these. Large rivers were
                    usually crossed in rude scows, and not without danger, but at some places it was
                    necessary to swim the horses over and float the carriage at the stern of a
                    canoe.
                
                    Travel by private vehicles. The ferries.
                
                
                    Horseback traveling. The American natural pacer.
                
                
                    RIVER BATEAU.
                
                Probably the most comfortable of all modes of travel at the time was
                    that of riding on horse back. In America only were there horses that ambled
                    naturally. The "natural pacer," of Virginia, and the "Narragansett pacer," of
                    Rhode Island, were highly prized, and were  matters of wonder even in Europe. Two people often traveled
                    with one horse. The first rode ahead and tied the horse by the road; the second,
                    when he came up, rode on past his companion and in turn tied the horse and left
                    him for the other. This was called "traveling ride and tie."
                When Washington became President, all the chief towns were on the
                    sea-coast, or on the tide-water of the rivers, except Lancaster, in
                    Pennsylvania. Outside of that State, the roads were so bad that a large
                    trading-town was not possible away from water conveyance. The interior trade of
                    Pennsylvania was carried on in great wagons, known as Conestoga wagons, each
                    drawn by six or eight stout horses. There were ten thousand or more of these
                    wagons running out of Philadelphia. The wagon-trade with the interior made
                    Philadelphia the chief town of North America. Trade with remote districts of the
                    country was still carried on by means of pack-horses and bateaux, or small boats.
                
                    Badness of the roads generally. The great wagon-traffic in
                        Pennsylvania.
                
                
                    WAGONS AND CARRIAGES OF THAT TIME.
                
                
                    Carrying the mails.
                
                There was not much letter-writing then, and the mails carried mostly
                    on horseback, with little regularity 
                    and no speed, so that news sent by mail almost became history by the time it
                    reached the reader. The newspapers were published weekly, and were slow with
                    their news and rather dull in their comments.
                There were schools in all the leading towns and cities. In New
                    England there were schools in almost every township. But there was no
                    public-school system like that which prevails at present. The schools were, for
                    the most part, poor; the discipline in them was severe, and sometimes brutal.
                    Boys were taught to read and write, and sometimes to "cast accounts." Girls
                    learned to read, sometimes also to write. But needle-work and fancy-work were
                    thought more appropriate to them. The oldest college in the country was Harvard,
                    at Cambridge, Massachusetts. The next oldest was the college of William and
                    Mary, at Williamsburg, the capital of Virginia. Yale College, in New Haven, was
                    the third in age. There was also a college in New York, one in Philadelphia, and
                    another in Princeton, New Jersey.
                
                    Education.
                
                
                    SINGING WITH THE HARPSICHORD AND FLUTE.
                
                
                    Science, literature, and art.
                
                For a long time after the colonies were settled there had been little
                    that one could call literature or art or science. People that are busy in
                    cutting down forests and building new towns have no time to write books or paint
                    pictures. The early books were almost all on politics or religion. But in the
                    fifty years before the Revolution there came to be a considerable interest in
                    science and literature. One American, Benjamin Franklin, became famous in Europe
                    as well as in America by his great discovery  that the lighting of the clouds was but ordinary electricity.
                    Franklin was also an admirable thinker and writer on many subjects, and one of
                    the greatest men of his century. Three Americans, Copley, West, and Stuart,
                    gained reputation in England as painters, but America could furnish only a
                    slender support to artists.
                
                Who was chosen first President? Was there any opposition to
                    Washington's election? Who was elected Vice-President? Where was Washington
                    inaugurated? In what year?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                Hoe many people did the United States contain when Washington was
                    inaugurated? Which of the States contains more people to-day  than the whole country did in
                    Washington's time? How many people will the census of 1890 doubtless show? This
                    will be how many times the population of 1790? In what region were these three
                    or four millions of people that formed the population settled when the
                    Constitution was adopted? Where was the center of population? What was almost
                    the only great highway of commerce? What did one find in traveling up into the
                    country? Where was there an end of settlements? Were there any settlements west
                    of the mountains? Where? What was the western line of the territory of the
                    United States? How far away did the forests and prairies on the Mississippi
                    seem?
                What familiar modes of travel in our time were wanting in the first
                    years of the republic? What was one of the commonest modes of travel from one
                    town to another? On what did the length of the voyage depend? How long did it
                    take to go from Boston to New York by stage? From New York to Philadelphia? How
                    did many travelers make journeys? How were large rivers usually crossed? But
                    what ruder ways of getting a horse and carriage across a river prevailed in some
                    places? What was probably the most comfortable of all the models of travel at
                    this time? To what country was the horse that ambled naturally peculiar? How
                    were these natural pacers regarded in Europe? Where were the chief towns
                    situated in Washington's time? What towns was an exception to this? Why were
                    large trading-towns not possible away from water-carriage in any State but
                    Pennsylvania? How was the interior trade of Pennsylvania carried on? How many
                    Conestoga wagons were employed in the trade of Philadelphia? What made
                    Philadelphia the chief town of North America at that time? How were the mails
                    mostly carried at that time? How often were newspapers printed? What was their
                    general character? Were there schools in those days? What is said of schools in
                    New England? What was the character of the schools? What were boys taught? What
                    education was given to girls? Which was the oldest college in the country? What
                    college was next in age? Which was third? Why was there little that could be
                    called literature or art for a long time after the settlement of the colonies?
                    What were the early books mostly about? At what time did there come to be a
                    considerable interest in science and literature? What American gained a
                    world-wide fame for a great discovery? What did he discover? What Americans had
                    gained fame in England as painters?
                
                
                
                    
                        I. Election and inauguration of Washington.
                    
                    
                        II. Population of the Country.
                        
                            
                                1. Number.
                            
                            
                                2. Distribution.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Modes of travel.
                        
                            
                                1. By water.
                            
                            
                                2. By stage.
                            
                            
                                3. By private carriage.
                            
                            
                                4. On horseback.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Mail-carrying
                    
                    
                        V. Colleges.
                    
                    
                        VI. Literature and art.
                    
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXV.
                Home and Society in Washington's Time.
                NOT only did the people of the United
                    States, in the time of President Washington, have no railroads and no
                    steamboats, but they lacked a great number of other conveniences. Telegraphs and
                    telephones were unknown. Electric lights are an invention of our own time, but
                    our ancestors did not even have gas or kerosene-oil. Lamps of any kind were
                    almost unknown; houses were lighted with tallow-candles, though some of the
                    people made wax-myrtle tree. The poorest people burned a wick in a vessel
                    containing a little grease, or lighted pieces of pitch-pine on the hearth. With
                    such lights, it was no great virtue that they went to bed early. Even the
                    streets of large towns were lighted with dim lanterns. Stoves for heating were
                    almost unknown; those for cooking were not yet dreamed of. Wood was the only
                    fuel used in houses. Blacksmiths burned charcoal.
                
                    Lack of modern conveniences.
                
                
                    Life among the farmers.
                
                There were few mines and very few manufactures. Wool or flax was
                    prepared and spun at home, and then woven into plain homespun cloths for men's
                    and women's wear. The greater part of the people were farmers, and  the farmer rarely spent money. What
                    his family ate and wore was produced at home. The rough shoes worn in winter
                    were, perhaps, bought of a neighboring cobbler, but they were sometimes made at
                    home. The children and, in many cases; the parents themselves, went barefoot in
                    summer. Many plows, wagons, and sleds were made on the farm. In many parts of
                    the country the plow was unknown, and the pack-horse or rude sledge took the
                    place of the wagon. The farming was generally of the roughest kind, but the land
                    was new and fertile.
                
                    Habits of the backwoodsmen.
                
                There were many backwoodsmen who had a dress of their own. They wore
                    loose hunting-shirts of deer-skin or homespun, a fur cap, moccasins, and
                    buckskin leggins. These woodsmen lived by hunting, by trapping, by poling boats
                    and driving pack-horses, by small Indian trading, and sometimes by petty
                    farming. Until after the Revolution, mechanics and workingmen wore leathern
                    breeches.
                
                    Negro slaves.
                
                Of the nearly four millions of people in the United States in 1790,
                    about one seventh were negro slaves. These slaves were found in every State
                    except Massachusetts and Maine, which was then a part of Massachusetts. But they
                    were few in the Northern States. Of the Northern States New York had the most
                    slavesmore than twenty thousand. Nearly seven eighths of all the slaves were in
                    Maryland, Virginia, and the two Carolinas. These were the lands of tobacco,
                    indigo, and rice culture.
                
                    Traits of life at the South.
                
                In these States country life preserved aristocratic forms. Here,
                    until after the Revolution, the oldest son of the family usually inherited the
                    land, according to the custom of the old English law. Some of the great planters
                         lived like nobles. They were
                    accustomed to manage public affairs, and from this class came some of the most
                    eminent statesmen of the period following the Revolution. Virginia was called
                    "the Mother of Presidents." But the poorer people at the South had little or no
                    chance for education, and were generally rude and illiterate. There were few
                    towns in the Southern States, very few mechanics, and little of the
                    ship-building and manufactures that were soon to make New England rich. But in
                    Washington's time the Southern States were the richest as well as the most
                    populous. If they had but little town life, there was much social gayety in the
                    plantation-houses.
                
                    HAT WORN IN WASHINGTON'S TIME.
                
                The so-called cities of the United States, at the time of the
                    adoption of the Constitution, were only what would now be counted towns of
                    moderate size. But in each of these little capitals there was an aristocracy
                    that affected the style and fashion of the English gentry. Gentlemen and ladies
                    gathered at fashionable houses in the afternoon, and spent the time in talking,
                    and sipping tea from dainty little china cups. Sometimes large parties rode down
                    to a public garden in the country, or a tavern by the sea-side, to drink tea. In
                    most of the chief towns there were held once in two weeks "assemblies," or
                    balls. At these assemblies there were stately minuets and country-dances and
                    much money was lost and won at card-tables in a room prepared for fashionable
                    gambling, which was then one of the recognized amusements of good society.
                
                    Society in the cities
                
                
                    HIGH HEAD-DRESS OF THE TIME.
                
                About the time of the Revolution gentlemen wore their hair long, and
                    powdered it white. Ladies dressed their hair in a lofty tower. One fine lady of
                    the time  paid six hundred dollars a
                    year to her hair-dresser. Gentlemen, as well as ladies, wore bright colors and a
                    variety of rich fabrics, so that a fashionable assembly presented a gay
                    appearance.
                
                    Costume in Washington's time.
                
                But, with all this gayety in the upper ranks of society, life was
                    less comfortable then than now. The common people lived hardly, with few
                    comforts and fewer luxuries. Even the rich, with all their loaded tables and
                    fine show, lacked the substantial comforts of our modern life. There was more
                    drinking to excess then, and there was less refinement in speech and manners,
                    than there is now.
                
                    Comparative discomfort of the life of the time.
                
                Name some of the conveniences for traveling about in out time which
                    the people of Washington's time lacked. What means of lighting out houses have
                    we which they had not? How did they light their houses after dark? What kind of
                    wax did they sometimes make candles of? What did the poorest people have? What
                    is said of stoves for heating? What of cooking-stoves? What kind of fuel did
                    they use? What did blacksmiths use? What is said of mines and manufactures in
                    that day? Where did the farmer get his plows and wagons? Was the plow everywhere
                    in use? What took the place of the wagon in many parts of the country? What was
                    the general character of farming? How did the frontiersman dress? What pursuits
                    did the backwoodsman follow? What was the peculiarity of the dress of a mechanic
                    or workingman in the days following the Revolution? What portion of the
                    population of the United States was composed of slaves in 1790? Where were they
                    found? What Northern State had the most slaves? In what four States were seven
                    eighths of the slaves found? What crops were grown in these States?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What was remarkable in the life of the four States in which were the
                    most slaves? How was the landed property inherited? How did the great planters
                    live? To what were they accustomed? What kind of men were some who came from
                    this class? What was the condition of the poorer people in the Southern States?
                    What is said of towns in the Southern States? Where was there much social
                    gayety?
                What sort of places were the American cities in the time of
                    Washington? What is said of fashionable society in each of these towns? What  of the tea-parties? What can you
                    tell about the assemblies? What were the two chief amusements at these balls?
                    How did gentlemen wear their hair about the time of the Revolution? How did
                    ladies dress their hair? What is said of the colors worn at that time?
                What is said of the comfort of the modes of living at that time? What
                    was the state of morals as compared with the morals of our time? How did our
                    forefathers compare with people of our time n refinement of speech and manners
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Lighting and warming of houses.
                    
                    
                        II. Dress and habits.
                        
                            
                                1. Of farmers.
                            
                            
                                2. Of backwoodsmen.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The prevalence of slavery.
                    
                    
                        IV. Society in the States having the most slaves.
                    
                    
                        V. Society in town.
                    
                    
                        VI. Fashionable dress.
                    
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXVI.
                Washington's presidency, from 1789 to 1797.
                In 1791 the capital of the country was removed to Philadelphia, to
                    remain there until it should be permanently fixed on the Potomac. President
                    Washington lived in Philadelphia, and there Congress held its sessions.
                
                    Removal of the capital from New York to Philadelphia, 1791.
                
                Washington was elected by the unanimous vote of the country, and he
                    was re-elected in 1792 without opposition. He kept himself aloof from political
                    parties, and tried to be impartial. But his preference for a strong central
                    government attached him rather to the party called Federalist than to its
                    opponents.
                
                    Washington not a partisan.
                
                
                    The Federalist Party.
                
                The Federalist party had first taken its name in the struggle to
                    secure the adoption of the Constitution which that party favored. Federalists
                    were generally in favor  of
                    strengthening the central government. They also liked to see the government
                    conducted with some pomp and ceremony, after the English way. The Federalist
                    party was strong in the cities, and among people of wealth and those devoted to
                    commerce. Such people in that day were generally aristocratic in their feelings,
                    and leaned to English ways. In the war between England and France the sympathies
                    of the Federalists were in favor of England and against France.
                The party opposed to the Federalists was called at first the
                    Republican and afterward the Democratic party. (It is not to be confounded with
                    the Republican party of our time.) The members of this party were afraid that
                    the central government would grow too strong, and perhaps overthrow the
                    liberties of the people. They wished to increase the power of the State and
                    diminish that of the United States. They cherished ideas of individual liberty
                    and equality, and were afraid of an aristocracy. The old Republican or
                    Democratic party of that day-sympathized with France, which had, in the great
                    Revolution of 1789, overthrown the monarchy and set up a republic, and the
                    Republicans disliked England. Many of them at one time showed their partisanship
                    by wearing the tricolored cockade worn by republicans in France. The Republican
                    party in America wished to bring in republican manners and simple tastes, and
                    they objected to the stately ceremonies which Washington and the Federalists
                    liked.
                
                    The Republican Party.
                
                
                    Hamilton and Jefferson the great party leaders.
                
                The great leader of the Federalists was General Alexander Hamilton,
                    who did everything in his power to strengthen the government of the United
                    States. The Republicans were led by Thomas Jefferson, the author of  the Declaration of Independence.
                    Hamilton was Secretary of the Treasury and Jefferson was Secretary of State in
                    Washington's first cabinet, so that both parties were represented in the cabinet
                    at the same time, a state of things never seen nowadays.
                
                    ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
                
                
                    Indian troubles at the West.
                
                Alexander Hamilton. This great man was born in the Island of Nevis,
                    in the West Indies, in January, 1757. His father was poor, and he was put into a
                    counting-house. At fifteen years of age he wrote for the "St. Christopher's
                    Gazette" an account of a hurricane that had just desolated the Leeward West
                    India Islands. The remarkable ability of this description attracted the
                    attention of the chief men of the place, and the boy was sent to the American
                    continent to be educated. In 174, when but seventeen years of age, while a
                    student in King's College (now Columbia College), in New York, he made a speech
                    on the Revolutionary side at a great meeting in the fields, which at once
                    stamped him as a wonderful youth. He also wrote several anonymous pamphlets that
                    attracted great attention, and were attributed to the leading men of the party.
                    In 1776, when he was but nineteen, he took command of an artillery company, and
                    so distinguished himself at the battle of White Plains and in the retreat across
                    New Jersey that Washington put him on his own staff. He was employed by
                    Washington in many delicate and confidential missions, and he distinguished
                    himself in more than one battle. He led the assault on one of the British
                    outworks at Yorktown. His great work lay in his efforts to persuade the American
                    people to adopt the Federal Constitution, by which the national existence was
                    firmly established. As the first Secretary of the Treasury, he held Congress
                    firmly to the duty of paying every dollar of the national debt at its face. He
                    also prevailed on Congress to adopt the debts incurred by the States in carrying
                    on the war, and he thus established the credit of the nation. He retired from
                    office on account of poverty, but his law practice was afterward very
                    profitable. He was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr in 1804.
                During Washington's administration there began those troubles with
                    the Indian tribes which have plagued the government and the people of the
                    frontiers from that day to this. The English government refused to surrender
                    forts which it held among the Indian tribes in what is now Ohio, and encouraged
                    the savages, to hostilities. There arose in consequence a most deadly and cruel
                    was between the white settlers in Kentucky and the tribes living on the north
                    side of the river. More than fifteen hundred Kentucky settlers had been killed
                    in seven years, and very many carried away into a cruel captivity. The horrible
                    slaughter of men, women and  children
                    in Kentucky gave that State the name of "the Dark and Bloody Ground."
                
                    KENTUCKY CAPTICVES
                
                General Harmer was sent against the Indians in 1790, but from
                    carelessness on his part, and a lack of discipline among his troops, the white
                    soldiers were cut to pieces by the savages under Little Turtle.
                General St. Clair was sent against these same Indians in the
                    following year. He allowed himself to be surprised by Little Turtle and a strong
                    force of Indians, who routed and almost ruined his army. The Indians 
                        GENERAL ST. CLAIR.
                    
                     butchered the wounded with the most
                    brutal cruelty while St. Clair's army was in flight.
                
                    St. Clair's Defeat, 1791.
                
                Washington was greatly distressed at this defeat. He now selected
                    General Wayne, who had gained distinction in the Revolution, and whose courage
                    was such that he was called "Mad Anthony Wayne." But he was as prudent as he was
                    brave. The Indian called him "The Black Snake," and they also called him "The
                    Chief who never Sleeps." After trying in vain to make peace with the Indians,
                    Wayne attacked and defeated them, driving them from their hiding-places by a
                    bayonet-charge. This battle was fought in 1794, on the banks of the Maumee
                    River, in northern Ohio. It brought peace to the frontier for a while.
                
                    Wayne's victory on the Maumee, 1794.
                
                
                    ANTHONY WAYNE.
                
                Anthony Wayne.General Wayne was born in Chester Country,
                    Pennsylvania, in 1745. He early showed a fondness for military life. He received
                    a good education for the time, and became a land-surveyor. During the troublous
                    times of 1774 and 1775 Wayne devoted himself to drilling military companies in
                    his own country. He entered the army as colonel in 1776, and distinguished
                    himself in many actions. His most notable exploit perhaps, was the storming f
                    Stony Point, on the Hudson. This formidable work he carried at midnight by a
                    bayonet-charge, the soldiers' guns being empty. He afterward handled a small
                    force in Georgia in such a way as to hold in check a much larger body of British
                    troops. It was his careful organization and blood execution of various
                    enterprises during the Revolution which caused his selection by Washington to
                    retrieve the fortunes of the Indian was after St. Clair's defeat. When he
                    returned from his successful expedition against the Indians he was received in
                    Philadelphia in triumph. He was sent in 1796 to receive the surrender of the
                    Western forts, and died in December of that year on the shore of Lake Erie.
                
                    The whisky rebellion, 1794.
                
                There was about this time a rebellion in western Pennsylvania, known
                    as "the Whisky Insurrection." The people of western Pennsylvania raised Indian
                    corn. The roads over the mountains were such that they could not well haul this
                    corn to market, so they fell to making it into whisky, in which shape it was
                    less bulky and more easily carried. The new United States tax on  whisky interfered with this
                    business, and the people rose against the revenue officers. Washington sent
                    troops to enforce the law, and the people submitted after the ringleaders of the
                    rebellion bad fled.
                Washington declined to be a candidate for the third time, and in
                    September, 1796, the "Father of his Country" issued a farewell address, full of
                    good advice. At the end of his term, in March, 1797, he retired to Mount Vernon,
                    where he spent his closing years in peace. He died December 14, 1799, in the
                    last month of the eighteenth century. Of the many great men of that century, he
                    was, though not the most gifted, probably the most illustrious. The whole United
                    States paid honor to his memory, and to this time his is the only American
                    birthday honored as a public holiday.
                
                    Retirement and death of Washington.
                
                To what city was the capital removed in 1791? Was it expected that
                    Philadelphia would remain the capital? Did Washington have any rival candidate
                    when he was elected the first time? Was there any opposition to his second
                    election? Did he belong to any party? To which party did his sympathies incline?
                    In what struggle did the Federalist party first take that name? Was the
                    Federalist party in favor of or opposed to the Constitution? How did the
                    Federalists feel about strengthening the central government of the United
                    States? How did they feel about the use of dignified ceremonies in conducting
                    the government? Where was the Federalist party strong? Which did they prefer,
                    England or France? What was the party opposed to the Federalists called? Of what
                    were the members of this party afraid? As between the several State governments
                    and the government of the United State, which did the old Republicans wish to
                    see strengthened? What 
                        Question for study.
                    
                    
                        WAYNE'S CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE INIDANS.
                    
                     ideas did they cherish? Of what were
                    they afraid? As between France and England, which did the Republicans favor?
                    What change had taken place in the government of France in 1789? What kind of
                    manners and tastes did the Republican party wish to bring in?
                Who was the great leader of the Federalists? Who was the leader of
                    the Republicans? What office did Hamilton hold in Washington's first cabinet?
                    What was Jefferson's place in the Cabinet? Are the two great parties represented
                    in this way at the same time now?
                What had the English government to do with the Indian troubles of
                    Washington's time? Where were the forts which the English refused to give up?
                    What name did Kentucky get on account of the horrors of Indian war? Who was sent
                    against the Indians in 1790? What was the result of Harmar's expedition? Who was
                    sent against the savages in 1791? What happened to St. Clair's army? How did
                    Washington feel about St. Clair's defeat? Whom did Washington select to fill St.
                    Clair's place? What was Wayne called? But was "Mad Anthony Wayne" reckless? What
                    name did the Indians give him? What else did they call him? Did Wayne try to
                    make peace with the Indians? How did he attack them? Where was this battle of
                    1794 fought? What was the result? What was the rebellion in Pennsylvania at this
                    time called? What did the People of this region do with their corn? What tax
                    interfered with their business? What did the people do? What did Presedent
                    Washington do? What was the outcome of the rebellion? Why was Washington not
                    elected a third time? What sort of an address did he issue in 1796? To what
                    place did he retire at the close of his term? When did he die? How does he
                    compare with the many other great men of the eighteenth century? (On what day do
                    we celebrate his birthday?)
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Washington the President and Philadelphia the capital.
                    
                    
                        II. The two political parties.
                        
                            
                                1. The Federalists and their opinions.
                            
                            
                                2. The Republicans and their opinions.
                            
                            
                                3. The leaders of the parties.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The Indian troubles.
                        
                            
                                1. Their causes.
                            
                            
                                2. Harmar's expedition in 1790.
                            
                            
                                3. St. Clair's expedition in 1791.
                            
                            
                                4. Wayne's expedition in 1794.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The Whisky Insurrection.
                    
                    
                        V. Retirement and death of Washington.
                    
                
                In what State is Philadelphia situated? In what State is the Maumee
                    River? Geography, In what part of Ohio did Wayne fight the Indians, Into what
                    great lake does the Maumee flow? In what direction does this lake lie from
                    Wayne's battle-field?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXVII.
                Troubles with England and France. Presidency of
                    John Adams.
                WHEN the English government
                    acknowledged the independence of the United States, in 1783, there remained
                    still in the hands of English troops certain military posts in the Indian
                    country which were within the territory of the United States. In violation of
                    the treaty, the English government retained these posts among the Indians, and
                    by the encouragement given to the tribes, kept alive the Indian war. When Wayne
                    defeated the Indians on the Maumee, as we have related in the preceding chapter,
                    he found Canadians fighting on the side of the Indians, and he drove them before
                    him under the very guns of a fort held by the English, who did not dare to aid
                    the savages and their allies. There was also much anger in America against the
                    English government on account of the illegal seizure of American vessels by
                    British cruisers.
                
                    Grounds of complaint against England.
                
                
                    Jay's treaty.
                
                
                    JOHN JAY.
                
                To prevent a new war with Great Britain, Washington sent John Jay to
                    England in 1794 to make a treaty. "Jay's Treaty," as it was called, was very
                    unpopular in America, especially with the members of the Republican party, who
                    thought that it yielded too much to England. But it was confirmed by Washington
                    and the Senate, for, according to the Constitution, every treaty made with a
                    foreign nation must be agreed to by the Senate. It provided for the surrender of
                    the Western forts by England, and it prevented a war with Great Britain, which
                    would have been a misfortune to so weak a country as ours  was at that time. When a war with England came at
                    last, in 1812, the United States had nearly twice as many people as it had when
                    the Jay treaty was made.
                This treaty with Great Britain was exasperating to the French
                    government, which was then engaged in war with England. As France had helped the
                    United States to gain its independence, the French expected the assistance of
                    America in their new war with England. Washington wisely kept this country free
                    from alliances with either of the contending nations.
                
                    France and the Jay treaty.
                
                In 1796 John Adams, the candidate of the Federalist party, was chosen
                    President over Thomas Jefferson, who was the candidate of the Republicans, or
                    Democrats.
                
                    Election of John Adams, 1796.
                
                John Adams was the son of a farmer. He was born in Braintree, Mass.,
                    in 1735. He graduated at Harvard, taught school for two years, and began the
                    practice of law when he was twenty-three years of age. He took an active part in
                    the Stamp-Act agitations from 1765 onward. He removed to Boston in 1768, and
                    soon became a leading lawyer and a chief of the Revolutionary party. Adams was
                    one of the foremost men in the Congress of 1774 and 1775, and was one of the
                    committee to prepare the Declaration of Independence. He was one of the
                    commissioners to negotiate the treaty of peace with England, and was minister at
                    London for three years. He was Vice-President during the whole of Washington's
                    presidency, and in 1796 was elected to succeed Washington as President. He was
                    an able and courageous man, honest and true to his convictions, but vain,
                    irritable, the somewhat quarrelsome. His peculiarities had something to do with
                    his unpopularity and his defeat when he ran for the presidency a second time. He
                    died on 4th of July, 1826, exactly fifty years after the Declaration of
                    Independence.
                
                    JOHN ADAMS.
                
                The administration of Adams was mostly occupied with the difficulties
                    with France. That country, after the great Revolution that overthrew the
                    monarchy in 1789, had now 
                        Discourteous behavior of the French Directory.
                    
                     fallen into the hands of a
                    government called the "Directory." It was composed of five directors. The
                    successes which their armies achieved under the command of the rising young
                    general, Napoleon Bonaparte, made the Directory very overbearing. When the
                    United States sent a new minister to Paris, the French government refused to
                    receive him, and presently ordered him to leave the country.
                In 1797, President Adams, who desired to avoid a war if possible,
                    sent three envoys to France, having assurances that they would be received with
                    honor. But the American envoys were informed with honor. But the American envoys
                    were informed that, in order to secure a peace, the United States must make a
                    loan to the French government and pay secret bribes to the members of the
                    Directory.
                
                    CANNONEER, 1797.
                
                
                    The Directory seek to extort seek to extort money from the United
                        States.
                
                The envoys refused this dishonorable demand, and, when it was know in
                    America, the popular cry became, "Millions for defense, but not one cent for
                    tribute!" The tricolored cockade was no longer worn, but a black cockade was put
                    on by those in favour of a war with France. "Hail, Columbia," then a new song,
                    became universally popular. Ships were built, an army was raised, and Washington
                    was made commander-in-chief.
                But the French did not wish a war, and Napoleon Bonaparte, who had
                    now overthrown the French Directory, made a new agreement with United States in
                    September, 1800. Thus the infant country again escaped a foreign war.
                
                    SEAMAN, 1793.
                
                
                    Peace made with Napoleon Bonaparte.
                
                
                    Removal of the capital to Washington, 1800.
                
                In the year 1800 the government was removed from Philadelphia to
                    Washington city. In 1790 Congress had resolved to fix the permanent capital on
                    the Potomac River, and the selection of the site was left to Washington  himself. When the government moved
                    there, in 1800, the place was almost a wilderness. The few people living in the
                    new town were scattered over the whole region, and one sometimes had to go one
                    or two miles through a forest to see his next-door neighbor, though bot were
                    living with the "Federal City," as Washington had named it.
                It was thought desirable that the national capital should not be
                    within the jurisdiction of any State. A tract ten miles square was given by
                    Virginia and Maryland to form the District of Columbia. But the portion taken
                    from Virginia was afterward ceded back to that State. The District of Columbia
                    is governed wholly by laws made in Congress, in which is inhabitants have no
                    representative.
                
                    The District of Columbia.
                
                Where did the English government hold posts that were on American
                    territory? What effect did the keeping of these posts have on the Indians? Whoom
                    did Wayne find fighting among the Indians when he defeated them on the Maumee?
                    By whom was the fort held near which Wayne find fighting among the Indians when
                    he defeated them on the Maumee? By whom was the fort held near which Wayne
                    defeated the savages? How did the American people feel toward the English
                    government at this time? What other cause of anger toward England was there? Of
                    what was there great danger? Whom did Washington send to England in 1794? What
                    was Jay sent to do? How was Jay's treaty received by the people? What did the
                    members of the Republican party think of it? What did Washington and the Senate
                    do about it? What has the Senate to do with treaties? What good did the treaty
                    do? Why would a war with England have been a great misfortune at that time? How
                    did the French government feel about the jay treaty? What was the relation
                    between France and England at that time? Why did France expect the United States
                    to help her in a war with England? What did Washington do? How did many members
                    of the Republican party show their sympathies with France? Who was chosen
                    President in 1796? Who was the candidate opposed to Adams? Of what party was
                    Adams the candidate? What party supported Jefferson? with what country did we
                    have difficulty in Adams/s time? What was the government of France at this time
                    called? How many directors were there? With  whom was France at war? What young general was fighting the
                    battles of the French? (what did General Napoleon Bonaparte afterward become?)
                    What effect did Bonaparte's victories have on the Directory? How did the
                    Directory treat the minister sent by the United States?
                How many envoys did President Adams sen to France in 1797? What
                    information was given to these envoys? How did they treat this demand for money?
                    When their refusal to pay money became known in America, what was the popular
                    cry? What kind of a cockade was worn by those in favor of a war with France?
                    What song became popular?
                What preparations for war were made? Who was appointed to command the
                    army? Who had by this time overthrown the French Directory? What did Napoleon do
                    with reference to this country?
                In what year was the government removed from Philadelphia? To what
                    place was it removed? Who had selected the site? What was the condition of the
                    place when the government was removed to it in 1800? What name had Washington
                    given it? How was the District of Columbia formed? How is it governed?
                
                    
                        I. Difficulties with England.
                        
                            
                                1. The Western posts.
                            
                            
                                2. Illegal seizures of American vessels.
                            
                            
                                3. The Jay treaty.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Presidential election of 1796.
                    
                    
                        III. Diffficulties with France.
                        
                            
                                1. The Directory refuse to receive an American
                                    minister.
                            
                            
                                2. The Directory seeks a bribe to keep the peace.
                            
                            
                                3. Patriotic excitement against France.
                            
                            
                                4. Measures for defense.
                            
                            
                                5. A new agreement.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The capital removed to Washington, 1800.
                    
                
                On what river is Washington city? Into what bay does the Potomac
                    flow? In what direction is Washington from Philadelphia? From Baltimore? From
                    Richmond, Va.?
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                Election of Jefferson.War with Tripoli.
                
                    The alien and sedition laws.
                
                THE Federalists favored a strong
                    government. In the excitement caused by the troubles with France, very stringent
                    laws were passed by them. Foreigners were 
                    
                        THOMAS JEFFERSON.
                    
                     required to live in America fourteen
                    years before they could be naturalized. By what was called the "Alien Law," the
                    President was vien authority to send out of the country, without trail, any
                    "alien" or unnaturalized foreigner. By the "Sedition Law," speakers and
                    newspaper writers were to be severely punished for "libeling" the officers of
                    the government. Many of the people thought the alien law took away the right of
                    trial by jury, and that the sedition law attacked free speech and a free press.
                
                    JEFFERSON'S SEAL.
                
                In the presidential election of 1800, John Adams was the Federalist
                    candidate a second time, but he was defeated, and the Federalist party never was
                    able to elect another President. The Federalists had secured the adoption of the
                    Federal Constitution; they had made the national government strong; and they had
                    begun the work of paying the national debt in full, and so ever did a better
                    work than the Federalists did in bringing a bankrupt and disorderly confederacy
                    into a firm union.
                But the Federalists leaned too much to the English notions of
                    government that had prevailed before the Revolution. The Republicans held more
                    to the equality of men; they trusted the people, and believed in progress toward
                    a larger personal liberty. The Federalist movement made us a nation; but the
                    movement represented by the old Republican party made us republicans and
                    Americans.
                
                    The Republican party and its work.
                
                
                    How the President was elected at first.
                
                It was the intention of those who framed the Constitution that the
                    people should not vote for particular  men for the presidency. They were to choose in each State a certain number of
                    men called "electors." These were to select a President. But, instead of
                    choosing eminent men, and leaving the choice of a President to them, the people
                    vote for electors pledged beforehand to cast their votes for the candidates of
                    their party. The people thus vote for the President. It was provided at first
                    that each elector should vote for two candidates for President. The candidate
                    who received the highest number was to be the President, the one having the next
                    highest was to be Vice-President. The effect of this, in 1796, was to make John
                    Adams President, and his opponent, Thomas Jefferson, Vice-President. The
                    President and Vice-President thus belonged to opposite parties.
                
                    Struggle between Jefferson and Burr in 1800, and the change of
                        the Constitution that followed.
                
                
                    AARON BURR.
                
                In 1800 the Republicans resolved to elect Jefferson President and
                    Aaron Burr Vice-President. But, as the only way of electing a Vice-Persident was
                    by voting for him as one of the two candidates for President, it happened that
                    both Jefferson and Burr received the votes of all the Republican electors, and
                    had, therefore, exactly the same number of electoral votes, although nobody had
                    thought of Burr for President. The Constitution provided then, as it does now,
                    that the choice between the two, in case of a tie-vote, should be by the House
                    of Representatives. The Federalists disliked Jefferson in particular, as the
                    great chief of the Republicans; the most of them, therefore, voted for Burr.
                    This produced a new tie in the House of Representatives, and there was danger
                    that the 4th of March would arrive and find the country without a President;
                    but, after a long  struggle, some of
                    the Federalists cast blank votes, and allowed Jefferson to be elected. This
                    dangerous struggle led to a change in the Constitution, by which the electors
                    were to vote for but one candidate for President and one for Vice-President.
                    This method of voting for electors still prevails.
                
                    AMERICAN SEAMAN IN JEFERSON'S TIME.
                
                During Jefferson's time, the United States was at peace with all the
                    great powers. The wars raging in Europe had injured the commerce of England and
                    France. Foreign merchants, whose countries were at war, preferred to send goods
                    in American vessels, to prevent their being captured by the enemy. In this way
                    American commerce became very prosperous.
                
                    Prosperity of American commerce.
                
                The little Mohammedan states, along the southern coast of the
                    Mediterranean, had long carried on a piratical warfare against the trade of
                    Christian countries. The nations of northern Europe paid them a yearly tribute
                    to protect their ships from robbery. The United States was obliged to redeem
                    from slavery Americans captured by the Dey of Algiers, and also to pay tribute.
                    But in 1801 the Pasha [pash-aw'] of Tripoli [trip'-o-ly], having been refused
                    additional presents, broke into open war.
                
                    AMERICAN SOLDIERS ABOUT 1800.
                
                
                    Achievements of the infant American navy in this war. Peace,
                        1805.
                
                This war may almost be said to mark the birth of the American navy.
                    It was a period in which Americans were fond of dangerous exploits. The officers
                    and men of this small sea-force performed acts of daring before Tripoli which
                    have never been forgotten, and which yet serve for an example to their
                    successors. In many actions Americans boarded the pirate-ships, and fought in
                    desperate hand-to-hand encounters, with swords, pikes,  and bayonets. The frigate Philadelphia, having run on
                    rocks, was captured by the Tripolitans, and the crew reduced to slavery.
                    Lieutenant Decatur ran into the harbor at night in a ketch, boarded the frigate
                    and burned her, escaping with his men by rowing his little boat under a storm of
                    fire from the enemy's batteries. After four years of blockade and war, tge
                    obstinate ruler of Tripoli was brought to terms. He made a treaty of peace in
                    1805.
                
                    STEPHEN DECATUR.
                
                But in 1812, Algiers, another of the Barbary powers, declared war
                    against this country, captured American vessels, and reduced the crews to
                    slavery. The same Stephen Decatur, who as a lieutenant burned the Philadelphia,
                    was sent to the Mediterranean Sea, in 1815, as commodore of a squadron. He
                    captured the chief vessels of the Dey, and forced that prince to release his
                    prisoners, and to come on board the commodore's ship and sign a treaty. The
                    United States never afterward paid tribute to any of the pirate powers.
                
                    The later war with Algiers. Abolition of tribute, 1815.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What were the names of the two parties in the United States at this
                    time? (See Chapter XXXVI.) What kind of a government did the Federalists favor?
                    What kind of laws were passed by them? During what excitement did the
                    Federalists pass these stringent laws? How long did they require foreigners to
                    remain in the country before they could be naturalized? What is an alien? What
                    power did the Alien Law give to the President? What is the meaning of the word
                    sedition?' (Ans. The raising us of factions in opposition to the government.)
                    What is it to libel any one? (Ans. To defame or expose to cotempt by a writing
                    or by printed matter.) What offenses did the "Sedition Law" propose to punish?
                    What did many of the people think of the Alien Law? What of the Sedition Law?
                    Who was the candidate of the Federalist party in 1800? Had John Adams been the
                    Federalist candidate before? Had he been elected? (Chapter XXXVII.) What took
                    place in this election? Did the Federalist party ever again  elect their candidate for President? What party had
                    secured the adoption of the Constitution? What had the Federalists done about
                    the national debt? To what notions of government did the Federalists lean? To
                    what did the Republicans hold? In what kind of progress did they believe? What
                    did the Federalist movement do for us? What did the movement represented by the
                    old Republican party do for us?
                What was the intention of those who framed the Constitution in regard
                    to voting for a President? What were the people in each State to choose? What
                    were the electors to do? Did the people leave the choice to the electors? Do the
                    people really elect the President? How were the electors to vote? If each
                    elector voted for two candidates for the presidency, how was the Vice-President
                    chosen? What effect did this have in 1796? Whom did the Republicans resolve to
                    elect for President in 1800? Who was the electors fail to make a choice, who is
                    to elect a President? Why did most of the Federalists in the House of
                    Representatives vote for Aaron Burr? Did the House of Representatives suceed in
                    electing at first? What danger was there? How sis the election come out at last?
                    What danger was there? How did the election? What was the character of our
                    relations with the great powers during Jefferson's time? What effect did the
                    European wars have on our commerce? Why did foreign merchants prefer to ship
                    goods in American vessels? What kind of warfare did the little Mohammedan states
                    carry on? Where were these states situated? What did the nations of northern
                    Europe do to protect their commerce? To what ruler did the United States pay
                    money to redeem captives and for tribute? Which one of the rulers of these
                    Barbary states broke into open war with the United States in 1801? What relation
                    does this war hold to the history of the navy of the United States? How did the
                    officers and men before Tripoli behave? What took place when they boarded the
                    ships of the enemy? Relate the story of the burning of the frigate Philadelphia?
                    What did Decatur afterward become? Which of the Barbary powers afterward
                    declared war against this country? Who commanded the expedition against Algiers
                    in 1815? What was the result?
                
                
                    
                        I. The Federalist party and its defeat.
                    
                    
                        II. The Republican party.
                    
                    
                        III. Difficulties in the presidential election.
                    
                    
                        IV. Change in the Constitution.
                    
                    
                        V. Prosperity of American commerce.
                    
                    
                        VI. Wars with the Barbary pirates.
                    
                
                
                What are the names of the four Barbary states that lie on the coast
                    of the mediterranean Sea? Which is the most westerly? Which the most easterly?
                    What country in Europe lies north from Tripoli? What country in Europe lies
                    north from Morocco? What country lies next to Tripoli on the east? [Ans. Egypt.]
                    What do you know about Egypt? Which of the Barbary states lies between Algiers
                    and Tripoli? Through what strait would American ships have to pass to reach
                    Algiers or Tripoli? [Ans. The Strait of Gibraltar.]
            
            
                CHAPTER XXXIX.
                The Settlement of the Great Valley.
                BEFORE the Revolution, only a few
                    people had gone over the Allegheny Mountains. The country to the west of this
                    was shut off from all intercourse with the rest of the world, and was infested
                    by tribes of fierce and cruel Indians, who lived in villages for the most part
                    widely separated, but who resisted the efforts of the white men to occupy any
                    portion of the uninhabited wilderness west of the mountains. But, some years
                    before the Revolution, Daniel Boone and other daring men, from North Carolina
                    and Virgina, penetrated into the fertile lands of Tennessee and Kentucky, and
                    formed settlements.
                
                    Pioneers before the Revolution.
                
                
                    DANIEL BOONE.
                
                Some of the colonies had been chartered to run through to the Pacific
                    Ocean, and these claimed all the territory west of them as far as the United
                    States extendedthat is, to the Mississippi River. The Virginia charter, which
                    was the oldest, made the line of that colony run "west and nortwest." Under this
                    charter Virginia claimed most of the territory north of the Ohio River, and all
                    of that which now forms Kentucky. The territory lying north of the Ohio was
                    ceded to the United States by Virginia and the other States claiming it.
                
                    Territory north of the Ohio river ceded to the general
                        government.
                
                
                In 1787 this territory was organized as "The North-west Territory,"
                    and its government was regulated by an act which has since become very
                    celebrated. It is commonly know as "The Ordiinance of Eighty-seven," from the
                    year in which it was adopted. The Ordinance of Eighty-seven declared that, in
                    the Northwest Territory, all children of a father who died with a will should
                    inherit the estate equally, thus doing away with the aristocratic privileges
                    given to the oldest son under the English and colonial laws. It also forbade
                    slavery in the territory north of the Ohio. This ordinance made Ohio, Indiana,
                    Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin free States.
                
                    The Northwest Territory established by the "Ordinance of
                        Eighty-seven."
                
                Soon after the adoption of this ordinance and the pruchase of the
                    Indian title to the land, people begn to pour into the Western country, now
                    opened for settlement. A large number of Revolutionary officers and soldiers,
                    impoverished by the war, were among these settlers. The first emigrants carried
                    their few goods over the mountains on pack-horses. At Pittsburg or Wheeling most
                    of them embarked in large flat-boats roughly built of green lumber. In these
                    they floated down the Ohio to one of the new settlements on its banks. The
                    flat-boat was then broken up, and its planks used in building the settler's
                    cabin. Pennsylvania wagons, after a while, took the place of the pack-horse in
                    the journey over the mountains to Pittsburg.
                
                    Great rush of emigrants to the West.
                
                
                    Rude and dangerous life of the first settlers west of the
                        mountains.
                
                The people of this interior country were almost shut out from the
                    world. They raised flax and sometimes grew wool, and spun and wove at home.
                    Their spinning-wheels and looms were made by themselves. For chairs they made
                    rude stools, their tables and bedsteads  were such as they could make, and they used wooden bowls for
                    dishes. They tanned their own leather, and made rude shoes at home. The husks of
                    Indian corn were used for making various articles, such as rope, horse-collars,
                    brooms, and chair-bottoms. Barrels and bee-hives were made by sawing hollow
                    trees into sections. By splitting one of these sections a child's cradle was
                    constructed. For tea they drank a decoction of sassafras-root or the leaves of
                    the crop-vine. Their sugar they got from the maple-tree. Their small boat was a
                    canoe made from a single log, or a pirogue [pee-rogue'], which was a canoe
                    enlarged by splitting it in the middle lengthwise and inserting a plank. The
                    danger from Indians was so great for many years that the settlers never went to
                    their fields without carrying their rifles.
                Whatever supplies the Western settlers got, they brought from the
                    towns on the eastern side of the mountains, by means of pack-horses and wagons.
                    For these goods they exchanged furs, ginseng, and other light articles. The
                    produce of Western farms was too heavy to be packed across the mountains. It
                    could only be sold by floating it thousands of miles down the Ohio and
                    Mississippi Rivers to New Orleans. This was done in very large flat-boats, which
                    were rowed down the river with great sweeps, but could not be brought back
                    against the current. The flat-boat men got home by taking passage on ships
                    sailing from New Orleans to Virginia or Maryland, and then crossing the
                    mountains to Pittsburg.
                
                    Pack-horse and flat-boat trade.
                
                
                    Boats and boatmen on the Ohio and Mississippi.
                
                But as there was a necessity for some trade up the river as well as
                    down, there were presently used the "bargee" and the "keel-boat," both of which
                    had sharpened bows, and could be toilsomely forced up against the  stream by setting poles, oars, and
                    sails in turn, and which sometimes were towed, or "cordelled," by the boatmen
                    walking along the shore. Four months were consumed in the voyage from New
                    Orleans to Pittsburg. The boatmen were rude and lawless, and navigation was
                    rendered dangerous by the Indians and highwaymen that infested the banks of the
                    rivers.
                Louisiana Territory. The region about the mouth of the Mississippi
                    was first explored by La Salle (see page 117), and the first settlements in that
                    region were made by the French in 1699. In 1722 New Orleans was made the capital
                    of the colony. In 1727 wives were sent to the planters by the government, in
                    imitation of the plan adopted for peopling Virginia a hundred years earlier. In
                    762, after the English had taken Canada (Chapter XXIII), the province of
                    Louisiana was ceded to Spain. For a long time indigo was grown, but in 1974
                    sugar was successfully raised, and the colony was rendered prosperous at once.
                    There had been much trouble between Spain and the United States about the
                    navigation of the Mississippi, and the Western people wished to seize New
                    Orleans and the lower Mississippi, and the Western people wished to seize New
                    Orleans and the lower Mississippi. The United States desired to buy a portion of
                    Louisiana, but in 1800 Bonaparte procured its cession back to France. He
                    entertained, along with other dazzling schemes, the project of rebuilding the
                    French power in America. Monroe and Livingston were commissioned by President
                    Jefferson to buy from France, if possible, the small portion of Louisiana so
                    much desired by the United States, in order to secure the free navigation of the
                    Mississippi; but Napoleon surprised the American commissioners by offering to
                    sell the whole vast territory. French Louisiana included in whole or in part the
                    States of Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, Kansas, Nebraska,
                    Colorado, and the Territories of Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, and the Indian
                    Territorythat is to say, there are tat present twelve very large States and
                    Territories almost wholly made from Louisiana as brought from France in 1803.
                Louisiana, which then included almost the whole region between the
                    Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains, had been ceded by France to Spain in 1762.
                    Spain wished to deny to our people the right to navigate the great river that
                    formed our western boundary, and epeople west of the Alleghanies wished our
                    government to seize the whole of Louisiana. In 1800 Louisiana was ceded back to
                    France. In 1803 two commissioners were sent to France by President Jefferson,
                    with instructions to buy for the United States, if possible, a part of
                    Louisiana, including New Orleans and the mouths of the Mississippi. But
                    Napoleon,  who then ruled France,
                    fearing that England would seize the territory, took a sudden resolution to sell
                    all of Louisiana to the United States. For this the United States paid fifteen
                    million dollars. By this purchase the country acquired a great deal more
                    territory than all she had before possessed, and there was opened to her the
                    prospect of becoming one of the greatest nations on the earth.
                Aaron Burr, who had been Vice-President in Jefferson's first term,
                    had not been re-elected. After Louisiana was ceded to the United States, Burr
                    formed a conspiracy to detach Louisiana and some of the Western States from the
                    Union, and to revolutionize a part of Mexico. He enlisted soldiers in Ohio, and
                    started down the river; but he was arrested and tried for treason. For want of
                    evidence he was not convicted.
                
                    Aaron Burr's conspiracy.
                
                What was the condition of the country west of the Alleghany Mountains
                    before the Revolution? By whom was it inhabited? How did these Indians live? How
                    did they treat the efforts of the white men to occupy any portion of the land
                    west of the mountains? What daring man is particularly mentioned as having
                    penetrated into the country west of the mountains? Within what two of our
                    present States did Boone and other bold men plant settlements before the
                    Revolution? From what States did these men emigrate? How far to the west did the
                    land granted by charter to some of the colonies 
                     run? When these colonies became
                    States after the Revolution, what did they claim? How was the line of Virginia
                    to run according to its charter? What territory did Virginia and other States
                    cede to the United States? What was this territory north of the Ohio River
                    called when it was organized? What provision did the Ordinance of Eighty-Seven
                    make in regard to the inheritance of property? What privileges were thus done
                    away with? What did the Ordinance of Eighty-seven enact regarding slavery? What
                    five States cut out of this territory became free States that is, States
                    forbidding the holding of slaves?
                
                What took place after the passage of the ordinance of Eighty-seven?
                    Who were among these settlers? How did the emigrants carry their goods over the
                    mountains? How did they descend the Ohio? What took the place of the pack-horse
                    in crossing the mountains after a while? How did the people of the interior
                    country get clothes? How did they get spinning-wheels and looms to spin and
                    weave with? What sort of furniture did they have? Tell how they procured leather
                    and shoes. What did they make of corn-husks? How did they make barrels,
                    bee-hives, and cradles? What tea did they use? What sugar? What was their small
                    boat? How was a larger boat, or pirogue, made? What is said of danger from
                    Indians? How did the settlers get supplies from elsewhere? How did they sell
                    their produce? How did the 
                     flat-boat men get home again? What
                    kinds of boats were introduced that could get up stream? By what means were
                    these boats forced upward against the current? What kind of men were the
                    boatmen? By what dangerous enemies were the shores infested? Who had explored
                    the country about the mouth of the Mississppi? (Page 117.) To what nation did
                    France cede Louisiana in 1762? What region did Louisiana cover at this time?
                    What right did Spain wish to deny to our people? What did the Western people
                    wish our people to do? To whom did Spain cede Louisiana in 1800? For what
                    purpose did President Jefferson send two commissioners to France in 1803? Why
                    did Napoleon resolve to sell Louisiana to the United States? How much did the
                    United States pay for Louisiana? Was Louisiana as then bounded larger of smaller
                    than the rest of the country? What high office had Aaron Burr Held in
                    Jefferson's first term? What conspiracy did he form after he ceased to be
                    Vice-President? What did he hope to detach from the Union? What other country
                    did he hope to revolutionize in part? What happened to him? Why was he not
                    convicted?
                
                    
                        I. The pioneers.
                    
                    
                        II. The Northwest Territory
                    
                    
                        III. The Ordinance of Eighty-seven.
                    
                    
                        IV. The great emigration after 1787.
                    
                    
                        V. How the people lived.
                    
                    
                        VI. Flat-boat, keel-boat, and barge.
                    
                    
                        VII. The purchase of Louisiana.
                    
                    
                        VIII. Burr's treason.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Through what States do the Alleghany Mountains run? In what
                    direction? On which side of the Alleghanies is the Ohio? In what direction does
                    it flow? Into what river does it empty? In what general direction does the
                    Mississippi flow? What large city near its mouth? What large city is at the head
                    of the Ohio? In descending the Ohio from Pittsburg to New Orleans, in what
                    direction would a boat sail? What States and Territories have been in whole or
                    in part cut out of Louisiana as it was when the United States bought it?
                
                    Geography
                
                
                    FIFTH REVIEW.FROM THE CLOSE OF THE REVOLUTION TO THE
                        LOUICIANA PURCHASE
                
                
                    
                        Formation of the Constitution.(XXXIII.)
                        
                            
                                The new State Constitutions
                            
                            
                                The Articles of Confederation, 1781.
                            
                            
                                The Constitutional Convention, 1787.
                            
                            
                                The Constitution ratified in 1788.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        Government under the Constitution(XXXIII.)
                        
                            
                                Three divisions of government.
                            
                            
                                Legislative.
                            
                            
                                Executive.
                            
                            
                                Judicial.
                            
                            
                                The Federal system.
                            
                            
                                State governments.
                            
                            
                                United States government.
                            
                            
                                Freedom of religion, of the press, and of speech.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Population in Washington's time. (XXXIV.)
                        
                            
                                Washington inaugurated, 1789.
                            
                            
                                Population in 1790.
                            
                            
                                Increase on one hundred years.
                            
                            
                                Settlements chiefly on the coast.
                            
                            
                                Westward movement of population.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Civilization in Washington's time. (XXXIV.)
                        
                            
                                Modes of travel.
                            
                            
                                Freight carried by wagons, pack-horses, and small
                                    boats.
                            
                            
                                The mails and newspapers.
                            
                            
                                Education.
                            
                            
                                Science, literature, and art.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Home-life in Washington's time. (XXXV.)
                        
                            
                                Absence of modern conveniences.
                            
                            
                                Farm-life in that time.
                            
                            
                                Backwoodsmen.
                            
                            
                                Negro slaves North and South.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Society in Washington's time. (XXXV.)
                        
                            
                                Society at the South.
                            
                            
                                Society in the cities.
                            
                            
                                Tea-parties, country excursions, and balls.
                            
                            
                                Dress of gentlemen and ladies.
                            
                            
                                Life less comfortable and refined than in our
                                time.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Washington President. (XXXVI.)
                        
                            
                                Capital removed from New York to Philadelphia,
                                1791.
                            
                            
                                Washington twice elected without opposition.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The old political parties. (XXXVI.)
                        
                            
                                The Federalist party.
                            
                            
                                Its rise.
                            
                            
                                Its policy.
                            
                            
                                Its inclination to England.
                            
                            
                                The Republican or Democratic party.
                            
                            
                                Its policy.
                            
                            
                                Its sympathy with France.
                            
                            
                                Hamilton and Jefferson the party leaders.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        Military events in Washington's time. (XXXVI.)
                        
                            
                                Indian troubles at the West.
                            
                            
                                Hammer's defeat, 1790.
                            
                            
                                St. Clair's defeat, 1791.
                            
                            
                                Wayne's victory, 1794.
                            
                            
                                The Whisky Rebellion, 1794.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Troubles with England. (XXXVII.)
                        
                            
                                Causes of dissatisfaction.
                            
                            
                                The Jay treaty.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Close of Washington's career. (XXXVI and XXXVII.)
                        
                            
                                Washington retires, 1797.
                            
                            
                                John Adams succeeds him.
                            
                            
                                Washington's death, 1799.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Troubles with France. (XXXVII.)
                        
                            
                                France annoyed by the Jay treaty.
                            
                            
                                French "Directory" seek to extort money.
                            
                            
                                War with France threatened.
                            
                            
                                New treaty with France, 1800.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The new capital. (XXXVII.)
                        
                            
                                Washington city.
                            
                            
                                The District of Columbia.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Overthrow of the Federalists. (XXXVIII.)
                        
                            
                                Alien and sedition laws.
                            
                            
                                Defeat of the Federalist party, 1800.
                            
                            
                                Services rendered by the Federalist.
                            
                            
                                The old Republican party and its work.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Jafferson elected, 1800. (XXXVIII.)
                        
                            
                                Old system of electing the President.
                            
                            
                                The struggle between Jefferson and Burr.
                            
                            
                                Change in the mode of electing Presidents.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        War with Barbary pirates. (XXXVIII.)
                        
                            
                                Tribute paid to the pirates.
                            
                            
                                War with Tripoli, 1801-1805.
                            
                            
                                Brilliant success of the navy.
                            
                            
                                War with Algiers, 1815.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The opening of the West. (XXXIX.)
                        
                            
                                Pioneers before the Revolution.
                            
                            
                                Ownership of Western territory disputed by different
                                    States.
                            
                            
                                Northwest Territory ceded to the United States.
                            
                            
                                The Ordinance of 1787.
                            
                            
                                Emigrants descend the Ohio.
                            
                            
                                Rule life of first settlers.
                            
                            
                                Trade by boat and pack-horse.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Purchase of Louisiana. (XXXIX.)
                        
                            
                                France cedes Louisiana to Spain, 1752.
                            
                            
                                Spain re-cedes Louisiana to France, 1800.
                            
                            
                                Louisiana sold to the United States, 1803.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Aaron Burr's conspiracy. (XXXIX.)
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XL.
                Beginning of the Second War with England.
                DURING Jefferson's administration the
                    English government was involved on a long war with Napoleon, who had made
                    himself Emperor of the French, and had conquered a great part of western Europe.
                    During this war England was in need of seamen for the navy. The officers of the
                    English navy were allowed to impress British seamen from merchant-vesselsthat
                    is, to force them to serve on men-of-war. But England had also long claimed the
                    right to impress her own subjects when found on ships of other nations. Every
                    man born in Great Britain who sailed before the mast in an American vessel was
                    liable to be seized by an English man-of-war. More than this, English naval
                    officers were allowed to judge whether a man was a native of England or not, and
                    thousands of natives of America were impressed on British ships. It was very
                    exasperating to Americans to have their ships stopped on the high-seas and
                    searched, and their citizens forced to serve in the navy of a foreign power. But
                    England was all-powerful on the sea, and the United States had to bear with such
                    insults or give up sailing ships.
                
                    Search of ships and impressments
                
                During this war between England France, which shook the whole
                    civilized world, our country tried to be neutral. But England wished to
                    interrupt our trade with the countries under control of France, while Bonaparte
                    issued orders to check our trade with England. The decrees which these two
                    powers issued one after the other became so severe at last that our ships could
                    not sail to any port without the greatest danger of being seized by 
                        Interference with our commerce.
                    
                     the cruisers of one or the other
                    power. As the English were much stronger at sea than the French, they did us the
                    more harm.
                
                    The embargo of 1807.
                
                If our country had been strong, it would not have borne such
                    outrages, but it was then far from being prepared for a war with England.
                    President Jefferson was very anxious to avoid war, and to go on paying off the
                    debt of the country, which was his leading purpose. The President thought that
                    the United Stated might get the offensive decrees repealed by stopping all its
                    trade with the outside world. An act was therefore passed in December, 1807,
                    forbidding the departure of vessels from American ports. This was known as "The
                    Embargo of 1807," or "Jefferson's Embargo." The embargo was the only very
                    unfortunate act of Jefferson's administration, which, up to this time, had been
                    most popular. It was like destroying our own commerce to keep others from
                    ruining it. While our ships rotted in port, English and New York suffered
                    heavily by the destruction of their commerce, and there were even some
                    hot-headed people in the Eastern States who talked of dissolving the Union. The
                    embargo was called a "terrapin policy," as though the country had pulled its
                    head and feet into its shell, as a terrapin does when frightened. The embargo
                    lasted about fourteen months. The law was repealed in 1809.
                
                    Election of Madison, 1808.
                
                In 1808, James Madison, of Virginia, was elected to succeed
                    Jefferson. He was the candidate of the Republican, or Democratic, party, for,
                    notwithstanding the unpopularity of the embargo, the Federalist party was now so
                    much in the minority that it carried but a little  over one fourth of the electoral vote. George Clinton, of New
                    York, was elected Vice-President.
                
                    GERORGE CLINTON
                
                
                    Indian war in the Northwest, Battle of Tippecanoe, 1811
                
                In 1811 the irritation of the American people against England was
                    increased by the outbreak of an Indian war in the Northwest. It was believed
                    that English agents furnished arms to the Indians and encouraged their hostility
                    to the settlers. The Indians were at this time under the control of the great
                    Shawnee chief Tecumseh and his brother, who was called "the Prophet," and who
                    pretended to speak by inspiration. In July, 1811, General Harrison, Governor of
                    Indiana Territory, fought a battle with the Indians at Tippecanoe and defeated
                    them, Tecumseh, who was absent when this defeat took place, afterward entered
                    the British service.
                
                    "THE PROPHET"
                
                
                    Tecumseh and "the Prophet." These two Indians were brothers, born
                        at the same time, and of the Shawnee tribe. Tecumesh was a warrior, while
                        his brother wrought upon the superstitions of the Indians by falling into
                        trances and pretending to be a prophet. He carried about a string of sacred
                        beans and other objects of reverence. He and Tecumseh deserted their own
                        tribe and settled on the Wabash, where the fame of the prophet's visions
                        drew multitudes of Indians from various tribes to him. When any chief or
                        other influential man opposed the schemes of the brothers, the Prophet had
                        influence enough to have him put to death for witchcraft. Tecumseh took the
                        extreme ground that all the country belonged to all the tribes in common,
                        and that the tribes who had sold their lands to the white men had done what
                        they had no right to do. He wished to force the government to give up all
                        lands north of the Ohio. He traveled from tribe to tribe, trying to form a
                        confederacy of all. The battle of Tippecanoe was fought in his absence, and
                        the defeat of the Indians there deranged his plans. But the successes of the
                        British in the Northwest revived his scheme his scheme. He was made a
                        brigadier-general in the British army, and at the surrender of Detroit the
                        British general Brock put his own scarf on Tecumseh as a mark of
                        distinction. The wily Shawnee, though fond of this decoration, put the scarf
                        on Round Head, an older warrior of the Wyandott tribe. Tecumseh was killed
                        at the battle of the Thames, in Canada, in 1813. He was one of the ablest
                        men produced by the Indian race, and it is to his credit that he never
                        countenanced the barbarous custom of torturning prisoners.
                
                In June, 1812, the United States declared war against England.
                    Preparations were immediately  made
                    for invading Canada; but the Americans had rushed into war without being ready,
                    and they met nothing but disaster at first.
                The Canadian authorities, on the other hand, had taken every
                    precaution against invasion. The first blow was struck by them in the far-off
                    wilderness. Fort Mackinaw, on an island in the far-off wilderness. Fort
                    Mackinaw, on an island in the straits between Lake Michigan and Lake Huron, was
                    captured by a force of English and Indians before the American commander there
                    had heard of the declaration of war. This removed all restraint from the already
                    hostile savages of the upper country, and gave to the English the support of the
                    Indian tribes.
                
                    Declaration of war, 1812. English succecces.
                
                
                    Surrender of Detroit by General Hull.
                
                General Hull, who had been sent to invade Canada by way of Detroit,
                    was now and old man, unfit to command. He showed dullness and timidity, and when
                    attacked in Detroit by a force of English, Canadians, and Indians, he
                    surrendered that post on the 16th of August, to the great grief of his troops
                    and the indignation of the whole country.
                In what war was the English government involved during Jefferson's
                    administration? What had Napoleon made himself? What had he conquered? What had
                    England great need of? How did the English navy get sailors? Could an English
                    seaman escape by embarking on the ships of another nation? Did he escape if he
                    was naturalized in another country? Who was allowed to judge whether a seaman
                    was an Englishman or not? What happened to many American 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                     seamen? Why could not our country
                    resist such insults to its flag? What part did the United states wish to take in
                    this war that shook the civilized world? What did England do against our trade?
                    What did France do? Which nation did us the more harm, England or France? Why
                    did England hurt us the more? What was Jefferson's favorite purpose at this
                    purpose at this time? How did he think the country should proceed to get the
                    decrees of England and France repealed? How was all our trade with the outside
                    world to be stopped? What was this Embargo Act called? What was the effect of
                    the embargo in regard to our trade? What was its effect on New York and New
                    England? What kind of a policy was it called? Why a terrapin policy? How long
                    did the embargo of 1807 last? Who was chosen President in the election which
                    took place in 1808? From what State did Madison come? What party elected
                    Madison? Who was chosen Vice-President? What increased the irritation of the
                    American people against England in 1811? What connection had the Indian war with
                    our quarrel with England? Who controlled the hostile Indians at this time? To
                    what tribe did Tecumesh originally belong? What was his brother called? Why was
                    he called "the Prophet"? Who fought a battle with the Indians at Tippecanoe? In
                    what year did the United States declare war against England? How well were the
                    Americans prepared for this war? What befell them at first? What had the
                    Canadian authorities done with respect to the war? What had the Canadian
                    authorities done with respect to the war? Where did they strike the first blow?
                    What effect did the capture of Mackinaw by the British have on the Indian
                    tribes?
                What general was sent to invade Canada by way of Detroit? What kind
                    of a man was he? What did he do when attacked? How did his troops fee; about the
                    surrender? How did the country feel?
                
                    
                        I. The search of American ships and the impressments of
                            sailors.
                    
                    
                        II. The interruption of our trade by unjust decrees.
                    
                    
                        III. Jefferson's embargo, 1807 1809.
                    
                    
                        IV. Election of Madison.
                    
                    
                        V. War with Tecumseh.
                    
                    
                        VI. Declaration of war with England.
                    
                    
                        VII. Fall of Fort Mackinaw.
                    
                    
                        VIII. Surrender of Detroit.
                    
                
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                Where is Tippecanone? In what direction from Louisville? Where is
                    Detroit? In what direction is Mackinaw from Detroit?
                
                    Geography
                
                Schouler's "History of the United State." Hildreth's "History of the
                    United States." McMaster's "History of the American People." Mrs, Seelye's
                    "Tecumseh."
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XLI.
                The Navy in the War of 1812.
                PRESIDENT MADISON was really averse to the war, and he was a vacillating leader.
                    The generals appointed at first were mostly Revolutionary officers, too old to
                    be good commanders. They were selected for political reasons. The soldiers were
                    high-spirited, but undisciplined. They sometimes refused to obey a disagreeable
                    order, or to follow an unpopular commander; sometimes they turned about and went
                    home. They even threatened the life of a general whom they thought guilty of
                    cowardice.
                
                    JAMES MADISON.
                
                
                    Bad state of the army.
                
                The main purpose of the government at the beginning of the war had
                    been to invade Canada. But the old General Deaborn, who had command of the army
                    on the Canadian frontier, was inefficient. The troops were brave, and some of
                    the officers distinguished themselves in various battles, but the conquest of
                    Canada proved a difficult task. Old General Hull, as we have seen, contrived to
                    lose Detroit and the whole Northwest.
                
                    Attempt to invade Canada.
                
                
                    James Madison. Madison, the fourth President, was born in
                        Virginia in 1751. During the Revolution he was a member of the Virginia
                        Legislature, and later a member of Congress. He was a member of the
                        convention that framed the Constitution of the United States, and one of the
                        ablest advocates of its adoption. He was Secretary of State in Jefferson's
                        administration, and succeeded Jefferson as President, serving two terms. He
                        retired from the presidency in 1817, and died in 1836.
                
                
                
                    Neglect of the navy at the beginning to the war.
                
                The old Republication party of that day, which was the party
                    advocating the war, had always professed a dislike for a navy. In preparing for
                    war, the whole reliance had been upon the army, and the little navy had been
                    neglected. The success of our soldiers was not doubted, but it seemed folly for
                    a few ships to encounter the navy of Great Britain, which was then completely
                    "mistress." Yet in the first year of the war the failures of the army under weak
                    officers were overwhelming, and the country was only saved from complete
                    discouragement by bold triumphs of the daring little navy.
                
                    CONSTITUTION AND GUERRIERE.
                
                
                    Naval victories over the Guerriere, the Frolic, the Macedonian,
                        and the Java.
                
                The powerful English frigate Guerriere [geh-re-air] was utterly
                    disabled and captured in an hour and ten minutes after she had engaged the
                    American frigate Constitution. This gave the greatest pleasure, because the
                    defeat of an English man-of-war on the ocean was up  to that time almost unheard of. Quickly after this triumph
                    came that of the sloop-of-war Wasp over the English sloop Frolic. One of the
                    most notable captures was that of the Macedonian by the frigate United States,
                    under command of Stephen Decatur, the same who, as a young man, had captured and
                    set fire to the Philadelphia, under the batteries of Tripoli (page 229). The
                    year was closed by the captured of a fourth man-of-war, the frigate Java. This
                    was effected by the Constitution, which was nicknamed "Old Ironsides." Under
                    three different commanders this ship won brilliant victories in the war.
                
                    BRITISH FLAG.
                
                There were other victories than these we have mentioned, and some
                    defeats, but the prowess of American seamen excited admiration everywhere. It
                    was a war for sailors' rights, and the sailors were deeply interested in it. The
                    adventurous character of American life in that day had developed a spirit of
                    personal daring well suited to naval warfare. Such was the emulation of officers
                    that in boarding an enemy's ship they actually pulled one another back in some
                    instances, so eager was every one to get over the side of the hostile vessel
                    first. One American seaman on the Constitution, in her battle with the enemy
                    surrendered, when the poor fellow raised himself with one hand and gave three
                    cheers, and falling back, expired.
                
                    SEAMAN, 1815.
                
                
                    When the frigate United States captured the British frigate
                        Macedonian, a young officer, report of the victory to the capital, entered a
                        large public assembly, escorted by two other officers, and presented the
                        ensign of the Macedonian to Mrs, Madison, the wife of the President. The
                        assembled guests cheered and wept with enthusiasm, while the young officer's
                        mother and sisters, who were present, embraced him, delighted that he had
                        come safely out of the battle.
                
                
                
                    Death of Lawrence.
                
                There were many affecting examples of courage in these contests. In
                    the losing fight of the Chesapeake with the Shannon, when losing fight of the
                    Chesapeake with the Shannon, when Captain Lawrence was carried below mortally
                    wounded, he said, "Don't give up the ship!" These words become a battle-cry in
                    the navy, and a watchword for brave men in difficult circumstances from that
                    time to this.
                The exploits of a little navy, pitted against the greatest maritime
                    power the world had ever seen, set the people wild. When the commanders of
                    successful vessels returned to port, cities welcomed them with banquets, State
                    Legislatures voted them swords, and the general government struck medals in
                    their honor.
                
                    LAWRENCE.
                
                
                    Battle of Lake Erie, 1813.
                
                
                    Admiration for the navy.
                
                A little fleet was launched on Lake Erie in 1813, and its officers
                    and men were anxious to rival the glory of the American ships at sea. In the
                    battle of Lake Erie, fought this year, Commodore Perry hung up for his signal
                    "Don't give up the ship!" the dying words of Lawrence. When his flag-ship was
                    riddled and disabled by the enemy, he got into a small boat and was rowed to
                    another vessel, standing upright while the enemy was raining shot about him.
                    Reaching the ship Niagara, he sailed down on the British line and broke it, and
                    at length compelled the whole fleet to surrender. "We have met the enemy, and
                    they are ouRstwo ships, two brigs, one schooner, and one sloop," Perry wrote to
                    General Harrison at the close of the battle.
                
                    PERRY.
                
                A similar engagement took place on Lake Champlain. While the battle
                    of Plattsburg was raging on the land, the British squadron, Superior  in men and guns, attacked the
                    American ships under Macdonough. The battle lasted two hours and twenty minutes,
                    and resulted in the surrender of the English ships. So severe was the fight,
                    that not a sound mast was left in either squadronthe masts were splinters and
                    the sails were rags.
                
                    Battle of Lake Champlain, 1814.
                
                Many private vessels were fitted out under authority of the
                    government as privateers. These scoured the seas, and captured or destroyed
                    above sixteen hundred British ships. The seamen on them fought with the same
                    splendid courage as their brethren in the navy. The swiftest of these privateers
                    were "Baltimore clippers."
                
                    MACDONOUGH.
                
                
                    Privateers in the War of 1812.
                
                How was the country prepared for the War of 1812? What kind of a
                    leader was President Madison? Of what sort were the generals selected at first?
                    For what reasons were they chosen? What was the character of the soldiers? In
                    what way did they show their lack of discipline? What was the main purpose of
                    our government at the beginning of the war? Who was in chief command of our
                    troops on the Canadian frontier? What kind of a general was he? What had General
                    Hull contrived to do? How did the old Republication party of that day feel about
                    a navy? What was thought of the chance for success with our little navy? How was
                    the country saved from discouragement in the first year of the war? What ship of
                    ours captured the Guerriere? Why did this victory excite pleasure and surprise
                    in America? What commander captured the Macedonian? How had he distinguished
                    himself when he was young? What victory closed the year? What nickname was given
                    to the frigate Constitution? What is said of the prowess of American seamen? Why
                    were sailors interested in the War of 1812? What effect had the adventurous
                    nature of American life in that day on the character of Americans? How did
                    officers show their eagerness for distinction in boarding an enemy's ship? What
                    anecdote is told of a dying seaman? What did Captain Lawrence, of the
                    Chesapeake, say when he was mortally wounded? What effect did these words have
                    on the navy? Have they been of use to others since that time?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                
                What kind of a maritime power was Great Britain at this time? What
                    was the effect of the naval victories on the American people? How were the
                    successful commanders treated? What motto did Commodore Perry show on his ship
                    in the battle of Lake Erie? What did he do when his flag-ship was disabled? What
                    did he write to General Harrison when the battle was over? Who commanded the
                    American ships in the battle of Lake Champlain? What battle was raging on the
                    land at the same time? What was the result of the fight on the waster? What was
                    the condition of the ships at its close?
                How many British ships were destroyed during this war by privateers?
                    What is the difference between a privateer and a ship of war? What sort of ships
                    were the fastest of these vessels?
                
                
                    
                        I. Failures of the army at first.
                    
                    
                        II. Successes of the navy on the seas.
                    
                    
                        III. Courage of American seamen.
                    
                    
                        IV. Exultation at naval victories.
                    
                    
                        V. The battle of Lake Erie.
                    
                    
                        VI. The battle of Lake Champlain.
                    
                
                Describe Lake Erie. What States touch it? Describe Lake Champlain.
                    What is west of it? What State on its eastern shore? What province at its
                    northern end?
                
                    Geography.
                
                Cooper's "History of the United States Navy." Schouler's "History of
                    the United States." Hildreth's "History of the United States."
                
                    Books.
                
                
                    Defeat of Winchester on the river Raisin, 1813.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XLII.
                The Army in the War of 1812.
                GENERAL WINCHESTER, also a veteran of the Revolution, was appointed to succeed
                    General Hull, after the latter had surrendered Detroit. But the Kentuckians, who
                    formed the most important element in the Northwestern army, were unwilling to
                    serve under anybody but Harrison, the hero of Tippecanoe, and the government
                    yielded to their wishes.
                
                    Harrison appointed to command the Northwestern army.
                
                General Winchester, who commanded a part of Harrison's army, was
                    defeated on the river Raisin, in Michigan.  He surrendered his men to the British general, Proctor, a
                    very brutal man, who, to his eternal infamy, left the wounded Americans to be
                    massacred and plundered by the Indians of his army. The Americans were roused to
                    revenge, and the war-cry of the enraged Western troops became, "Remember the
                    river Raisin!"
                In the spring of 1813. General Proctor, with a great force of English
                    soldiers and Indians under Tecumseh, laid siege to Harrison's little army in
                    Fort Meigs. Harrison and his troops contrived to thwart every endeavor to
                    capture the fort until re-enforcements arrived, when the enemy gave up the siege
                    and retired.
                
                    Siege of Fort Meigs by Proctor and Tecumseh, 1813.
                
                
                    When Proctor, whose force was much stronger than Harrison's, sent
                        a demand for the surrender of the fort, Harrison answered, "Tell General
                        Proctor that, if he shall take the fort, it will be under circumstances that
                        will do him more honor than a thousand surrenders."
                
                In the summer following, Fort Stephenson, a weak stockade with a
                    single six-pound gun, was brilliantly defended by a young Kentucky Officer named
                    Croghan, with only a hundred and sixty men, against a force many times as
                    strong, commanded by General Proctor.
                
                    INFANTRYMAN, 1812-1834.
                
                
                    Croghan's gallant defense of Fort Stephenson, 1813.
                
                
                    Croghan was only twenty-one years old, and Harrison wished him to
                        abandon the post. The English tried to persuade Croghan to surrender to
                        avoid a massacre, but the answer was that when the fort should be given up
                        there would not be found a man alive in it. Croghan shifted his six-pounder
                        from one angle to another, to give the impression that he had several heavy
                        guns. When the fort was assaulted at its weakest part, the Kentucky riflemen
                        opined a deadly fire. But the brave English soldiers at length reached the
                        ditch, and began to chop down the stockade. The six-pounder, which had been
                        double-loaded with grape-shot and slugs, and concealed where it covered the
                        whole ditch, was suddenly fired. Hardly a man of the assailing party
                        escaped, and the English army retreated the next morning. During the night
                        which followed, Crpgham's men, not daring to open the gate, let down water
                        to the wounded Englishmen outside and at length, by means of a trench,
                        brought them in and cared for them.
                
                
                    Battle of the Thames; death of Tecumseh, October, 1813.
                
                In September, 1813, Perry's victory on Lake Erise was won (see page
                    248). This turned the scale, and opened the way for a forward movement by
                    General  Harrison's army. Harrison
                    retook Detroit, crossed into Canada, and pursued
                Proctor's army, which he overtook at length on the river Thames. In a
                    short and sharp battle, fought here on the 1st of October, 1813, Harrison
                    defeated Proctor and his Indian allies. The brave chief Tecumseh was killed in
                    this battle, and the English army was utterly routed, Proctor, dreading the
                    revenge of the Americans for his cruelties, ran away in a carriage. The battle
                    of the Thames, and the death of the warlike Tecumseh, broke up the confederacy
                    of the Indian tribes, and brought peace to the frontier.
                
                    DRESS OF A FRENCH CANADIAN ABOUT THAT TIME.
                
                
                    In Harrison's general orders in starting for Canada after Perry's
                        victory he said: "Kentuckians, remember the river Raisin! but remember it
                        only while victory is suspended. The revenge of a soldier can not be
                        gratified up on a fallen enemy."
                
                Though Harrison and his Westerners succeeded so well, the attempted
                    invasion of Canada to the eastward proved a failure under the lead of the feeble
                    old generals who had survived from the Revolution. But the rise of young
                    generalsBrown, Scott, and Ripleyto command changed the aspect of affairs, and an
                    invasion of Canada was made in the summer of 1814. Fort Erie was taken, and the
                    battle of Eire fought and won by the Americans early on July. The battle of
                    Lundy's Lane was stubbornly contested, and lasted till midnight. The Americans
                    were left in possession of the field, but the next day they retreated. Before
                    winter set in, the Americans retired to their own side of the Niagara River.
                
                    Attempts to conquer Canada not successful. Battle of Lundy's
                        Lane, 1814.
                
                
                    FRENCH CANADIAN WOMAN
                
                
                    English attempt to invade the United States, 1814
                
                The English, having now peace in Europe, had been able to send
                    re-enforcements to Canada, and in this same summer of 1814 they attempted an
                    invasion of the United States, by Lake Champlain, the way so often  traveled before by French and
                    English expeditions. But the naval victory won near Plattsburg by Commodore
                    Macdonough (see the preceding chapter), and the resistance made by the Americans
                    in the battle of Plattsburg, fought at the same time, turned the British back
                    again.
                
                    Battle of Bladensburg; fall of Washington, 1814.
                
                But the British invasion, by way of Chesapeake Bay, was more
                    successful. In August, 1814, the British landed in Maryland an army stronger
                    than any that could be brought to meet it. On the 24th of August a battle was
                    fought at Bladensbrug [bla'-dens-burg], in Maryland, which resulted in a victory
                    for the English, who entered Washington, and burned the Capitol and most of the
                    public buildings. The same force that had taken Washington attacked Baltimore by
                    land and water, but the vigorous defense of that place forced the British to
                    retire. It was during this conflict that the song called "The Star-Spangled
                    Banner" was written.
                
                    AFTER 1795 THE FLAG HAD FIFTEEN STARS AND AS MANY STRIPES, UNTIL
                        1818, WHEN THE STRIPES WERE REDUCED TO THRTEEN AGAIN, WITH AS MANY STARS AS
                        STATES.
                
                
                    THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER OF 1814.
                
                The persuasions of Tecumseh and his brother, the Prophet, had raised
                    up a war party among the Creek Indians, who dwelt mostly in southern Alabama. A
                    large part of the nation, under the lead of a half-breed chief named
                    Weathersford, or "Red Eagle," made war on their white neighbors and on the
                    Indians of their own tribe who were disposed to be friendly to the United
                    States. British agents supplied these Indians with arms. Weathersford, like
                    Tecumseh, had a prophet to help him, who had been initiated into the office by
                    Tecumseh's brother. This chief, also, discouraged the barbarities of the
                    Indians, but he could not restrain them, and cruel outrages of torture and
                    massacre took place.
                
                    War with the Creeks.
                
                
                
                    Overthrow of the Creeks; rise of General Jackson.
                
                General Jackson, then an officer of the Tennessee militia, led a
                    force in to southern Alabama, and, after conquering the greatest difficulties
                    and fighting many bloody battles, he broke the power of the Greeks, so that
                    Weathersford himself entered Jackson's tent and surrendered. This was in April,
                    1814. Jackson, from being a commander of volunteers, was now made a
                    major-general, and put in command of the troops in the Southwest.
                
                    Jackson seizes Pensacola.
                
                Florida was at this time in possession of Spain, which was at peace
                    with the United States. But that power was secretly in sympathy with England,
                    and English troops made Pensacola, in Florida, a base of operations against
                    Mobile. With his usual fiery zeal, Jackson marched into Spanish territory,
                    captured Pensacola, and dislodged the British. He then retired.
                
                    MAJOR-GENERAL 1812.
                
                Jackson hastened to New Orleans, which was soon threatened by a large
                    British force. With an energy unsurpassed perhaps in modern history, he formed
                    an army out of the men and material within his reach, and built defenses against
                    the British approach. He formed companies of free colored men, and he even took
                    the convicts out of prison to make soldiers of them. After several preliminary
                    battles, the English endeavored to carry Jackson's works by storm on the 8th of
                    January, 1815. But Jackson's preparations were so through, that the enemy was
                    repulsed with a frightful loss of twenty-six hundred men. The Americans lost but
                    eight killed and thirteen wounded. Sir Edward Pakenham, the British commander,
                    was killed, and the attack on New Orleans was abandoned.
                
                    Jackson's victory at New Orleans, January 8, 1815.
                
                
                    Peace of Ghent, 1814.
                
                When this battle was fought, peace had already been made, but the
                    news had not yet reached this country.
                
                The treaty of peace was signed at Ghent [pronounce G hard], in
                    Belgium, of the 24th of December, 1814. By the terms of this treaty, neither
                    Great Britain nor the United States gained anything. The right of searching
                    American vessels was not mentioned on the treaty; but war had shown Great
                    Britain that the right to search could no longer be maintained against a
                    spirited nation, and American ships have never been searched from that time to
                    this.
                This war had caused a great dial of suffering and misery in this
                    country, by the derangement of business, the destruction of property, and the
                    loss of life. The news of the peace was hailed with the greatest delight.
                
                    Suffering caused by the war.
                
                Who was appointed to succeed Hull in command of the Northwestern
                    army? What post had Hull surrendered? Were the soldiers willing to serve under
                    Winchester? Whom did the Kentuckians desire to have for commander? Of what
                    battle was Harrison the hero? (August whom was the battle of Tippecanoe fought?)
                    In what State is the battle-ground of Tippecanoe? Where was General Winchester
                    defeated? In which of the States as since formed is the river Raisin? To what
                    British general did Winchester's troops surrender? What took place after the
                    surrender? What was the war-cry of the Western troops after this?
                To what fort did General Proctor lay siege in the spring of 1813? Who
                    commanded the Indians in this siege? What was the result of this siege?
                Who defended Fort Stephenson? What was the result of this defense?
                    What did Harrison do after Perry's victory? Where did Harrison overtake
                    Proctor's army? What was the result of the battle of the Thames? What chief was
                    killed here? What effect on the Indians did the defeat of the English and the
                    death of Tecumseh have? How did the attempted invasion of Canada to the eastward
                    succeed? What effect did the rise of younger generals have? What battle lasted
                    until midnight? Who held possession of the field? Did the Americans 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                     remain in Canada? By what road did
                    the English attempt to invade the United States? Had this road been used before
                    for invasion? (see pages 123 and 178). What naval officer commanded in the
                    battle of Lake Champlain during this invasion? (see the preceding chapter). What
                    was the result of the defeat on the water and the resistance offered at the same
                    time in the battle of Plattsbrug? What British invasion was more successful?
                    What battle fought during this invasion? In what State is Bladensburg? Who won
                    the victory in this battle? What happened in Washington afterward? What other
                    city was attacked during this invasion? Was it taken? What well-known song was
                    written during this attack?
                
                What had raised a war party among the Creek Indians? What chief led
                    them? Where did they get supplies of arms? In what respects was Weathersford
                    like Tecumseh? Did he succeed in restraining his savages? Who led a force
                    against the Creeks? Where were the Creeks settled? What came of Jackson's war
                    with them? What nation possessed Florida at this time? What led Jackson to march
                    on Pensacola? What did he accomplish by this? When Now Orleans was threatened,
                    what did Jackson do? What happened on the 8th of January, 1815, when the British
                    attacked Jackson's works? Where was the treaty of peace made? What is said of
                    the terms of this treaty? What is said of the claim to search American vessels?
                    What was the effect of the war in America? How was the news of the peace
                    received?
                
                
                    
                        I. Harrison and the war in the Northwest.
                    
                    
                        1. Harrison put in command.
                    
                    
                        2. The defeat and massacre on the river Raisin.
                    
                    
                        3. The siege of Fort Meigs.
                    
                    
                        4. The defense of Fort Stephenson by Croghan.
                    
                    
                        5. The invasion Canada and the battle of the Thames.
                    
                
                
                    
                        II. The war on the Niagara frontier and eastward.
                    
                    
                        1. Failure of old generals.
                    
                    
                        2. Invasion of Canada under new officers.
                    
                    
                        3. Invasion of the United States by way of Champlain.
                    
                
                
                    
                        III. Invasion by way of the Chesapeake.
                    
                    
                        
                            a. Bladensburg.
                    
                    
                        
                            b. Washington.
                    
                    
                        
                            c. Baltimore.
                    
                
                
                
                
                    
                        IV. Jackson and the war in the Southwest.
                    
                    
                        1. War with the Creeks.
                    
                    
                        2. Invasion of Florida.
                    
                    
                        3. Defense of New Orleans.
                    
                
                
                    
                        V. The peace.
                    
                
                
                    Geography
                
                
                    Books.
                
                1. Harrison's campaign: In what States and what part of each State
                    are the sites ofthe battle on the river Raisin; Fort Meigs; Fort Stephenson;
                    Detroit? Where is the site of the battle of the Thames? 2. Campaign on the
                    Niagara frontier: Where was Fort Erie? Lundy's Lundy's Lane? 3. The Eastern
                    campaign; Where Plattsburg? 4. In what State is Bladensbrug? What direction from
                    Washington? By what bay would ships approach Baltimore? 5. Jackson's campaign:
                    Where is Pensacola? In what direction from New Orleans? On what river is New
                    Orleans? By what sheet of water did the British approach it?
                Hall's "Life of Harrison." Mrs. Seelye's "Lossing's "War of 1812."
                    Parton's "Life of Jackson." G. C. Eggleston's "Red Egle."
            
            
                CHAPTER XLIII.
                Expansion of the Union.
                LET us now go back to the period
                    immediately following the adoption of the Constitution, and trace the birth of
                    new States. The first State admitted was Vermont. The territory which now forms
                    Vermont was climbed by New Hampshire, which granted the land to settlers. For
                    this reason it was called "The New Hampshire Grants." New York claimed it also,
                    and tried to make the people buy their lands over again. But the "Green Mountain
                    Boys" kept up an independent government of their own throughout the Revolution
                    In 1791 the State was admitted under the name of Vermont, a word of French
                    derivation meaning "Green Mountain."
                
                    Vermont admitted as the fourteenth State, 1791.
                
                
                    GENTLEMAN'S RIDING DRESS, EARLY PART OF THE
                        CENTURY.
                
                
                Kentucky was a part of Virginia, and was settled by Virginians, who
                    took with them their slaves, their agricultural habits, and their military
                    spirit. With the consent of Virginia, Kentucky was separated from that State and
                    admitted to Union in 1792. The people of this country have generally emigrated
                    in pretty straight lines to the westward. As Virginians broke over the mountains
                    into Kentucky, so North Carolinians crossed in to the valleys of Tennessee.
                    North Carolina gave up her right to the territory west of the mountains soon
                    after the Constitution was formed, and what is now Tennessee was part of the
                    Southwestern Territory, until it was admitted to the Union in 1796.
                
                    Kentucky, the fifteenth State, 1792. Tennessee, the sixteenth,
                        1796.
                
                
                    HAIR DRESS LIKE HELMET, ABOUT 1806.
                
                These two States, Kentucky and Tennessee, had slaves. But the
                    Ordinance of 1787, as we have seen on page 232, did not allow slaveholding in
                    the territory north of the Ohio River; so that all the States formed out that
                    territory were free States from the beginning. In the two years following the
                    passage of this ordinance, twenty thousand people made their way down the Ohio
                    River. But the Indian wars checked the settlement of the country until after
                    Wayne's victory (see page 217). Ohio was admitted to the Union February 19,
                        1803.*
                    
                        *
                        This is the correct date, according to late
                        investigations.
                    
                
                
                    Ohio, the seventeenth, 1803.
                
                It was more than nine years before another State was admitted. In
                    1812 the southern part of the great territory bought from France was admitted,
                    under the name of Louisiana the name at first given to the whole. Thus, when the
                    War of 1812 began, the old Union of thirteen States had increased to eighteen.
                
                    Louisiana, the cighteenth, 1812.
                
                
                    TURGAN HEAD-DRESS, WORN EARLY IN THIS CENTURY.
                
                
                The second war with England, and particularly the naval battles and
                    the crushing defeat which Jackson inflicted on the British troops at New
                    Orleans, made the United States respected in Europe as it had never been before.
                    Emigrants began to flock to America. The peace with the Indians caused the
                    Mississippi Valley, then called "The Far West," to fill up rapidly. In more than
                    thirty years after the Revolution, only five States were added to Union; but the
                    next six States were admitted in six successive yearsIndeana, next west of Ohio,
                    in 1816. The defeat of the Creeks had opened the Southwest; and the new State of
                    Mississippi, between Tennessee and Louisiana, was admitted in 1817. Illinois,
                    west of Indiana, was admitted in 1818; and Alabma filled the gap between
                    Mississippi and Georgia in 1819. In 1820 the District of Maine, Long attached to
                    Massachusetts, through separated from it geographically, was admitted as an
                    independent State.
                
                    Rapid expansion after the war Indiana, the nineteenth, 1816.
                        Mississippi, the twentieth, 1817. Illinois, the twenty-first, 1818. Alabama,
                        the twenty-second, 1819. Maine, the twenty-third, 1820.
                
                
                    OPERA HEAD-DRESS, EARLY IN THE CENRURY.
                
                By 1820, therefore, all the territory east of the Mississippi except
                    the extreme northern portion, now included in Michigan and Wisconsin, had been
                    made into States, and the State of Louisiana had been made out of the territory
                    which had been bought from France. But, by this time, a new State on the west of
                    the Mississippi River was knocking at the door of the Union. This was Missouri.
                    Over the admission of this State there was Missouri. Over the admission of this
                    State there was a great debate, lasting through three sessions of Congress.
                
                    Debate over the application of Missouri.
                
                
                    EVENING DRESS IN JEFFERSON'S TIME.
                
                The cause of this debate was the fact that Missouri proposed to come
                    in as a slave State. The bringing of slaves into the United States had been
                    forbidden in 1808. The States north of the southern line of Pennsylvania  had all, before 1820, taken measures
                    to free their slaves. The States south of the southern line of Pennsylvania,
                    having much of their wealth in slaves, and cultivating crops that seemed to
                    require their labor, had by this time mostly give up the thought of freeing
                    their slaves. So that there were now two classes of States in the Union: free
                    States and States having slaves. Each of these divisions of the Union was afraid
                    that the other would get control of the country. It had usually been the custom,
                    in admitting new States, to bring on one from the North and one from the South,
                    to keep the balance good.
                
                    State of the slavery question slavery question.
                
                
                    CHILD'S DRESS IN THE EARLY YEARS OF THE 19TH CENTRUY.
                
                But Missouri brought up a new question. According to the Ordinance of
                    1787, the State north of the Ohio had all come in as free States; but those the
                    south of that river had been allowed to enter as slaveholding States. Louisiana
                    had been purchased as slaveholding territory, and was admitted as a salve State.
                    But now the question arose whether all the great region bought from France was
                    to be added to the Southern side of the scale. Missouri was west of the
                    Mississippi, and so far north as to seem to break into the line of free States.
                
                    Missouri brings up a new phase of the question.
                
                
                    WALKING-COSTUME, 1807.
                
                Most of the people at the North wished all the new territory made
                    into free States; most of the people at the South wished to have it all open to
                    settlement by Southern people with slaves. The question was finally decided by
                    letting Missouri come in as a slave State, but slavery was at the same time
                    forever forbidden in the rest of the territory north of the southern line of
                    Missouri. Thus all the territory to the north and west of that State would be
                    free. This was known as the Missouri 
                        The Missouri Compromise. Missouri the twenty-fourth State
                            admitted, 1821.
                    
                     souri Compromise. It was adopted in
                    1820, and Missouri was finally admitted in 1821. Henry Clay, the most famous of
                    the orators and political leaders of the day, was very active in promoting this
                    measure.
                
                    Growth of population.
                
                The "Old Thirteen" had now grown to twenty-four. The expansion of the
                    nation in population and wealth was very rapid. In 1820 there were more than
                    nine and a half million people in America. This was about three times as many as
                    there were when the Revolutionary War was ended.
                Which was the first State admitted to the Union after the adoption of
                    the Federal Constitution? What was Vermont called before it become a State? Why
                    was it called the New Hampshire Grants? What State besides New Hampshire claimed
                    Vermont? Why are the people of Vermont called the "Green Mountain Boys"? What
                    mountains are there in Vermont? Why was the State called Vermont when it was
                    admitted to the Union in 1791? Of what State was Kentucky a part? By whom was it
                    settled? What did Virginians take with them when they went to Kentucky? How
                    could Congress admit a part of a State into the Union as a new State? Whose
                    consent was given to it? In what direction have the people of this country
                    generally moved when they emigrated? From what State did most of the first
                    settlers in Tennessee come? When did North Carolina give up its right to what is
                    now Tennessee? Was is formed into a State before 1800? What was the difference
                    between the States on the south side of the Ohio River and those on the north?
                    Why were there no slaves on the north side of the Ohio River? What is said of
                    the emigration to the Western country in the years following the famous
                    Ordinance of 1789? Was Ohio admitted to the Union before or after 1800? What was
                    the next State admitted after Ohio? How did Louisiana come to belong to the
                    United States? What part of the old French province of that name was admitted as
                    Louisina? In what year was Louisiana admitted? What happened to the country in
                    that year? How many States were there in the Union when the War of 1812 broke
                    out? What impression did the War of 1812 make in Europe? What battle of that war
                    excited particular attention in Europe? What effect did this have on emigration?
                    What caused the Mississippi Valley to fill up rapidly? How many States were
                    added to the Union in the space of one generation after the Revolution,  if we count a little more than
                    thirty years as representing a generation of people? In 1816 and afterward for a
                    number of years one State was admitted each year: for how many years did this
                    happen? Of all the territory that had belonged to the United States at the close
                    of the Revolutionthat is, of all the territory east of the Mississippi Riverhow
                    much remained to be formed into States in 1820? What was the first State, lying
                    mostly west of the Mississippi, to be admitted to the Union? Was Louisiana
                    admitted before the War of 1812 or afterward? What was the next State west of
                    the Mississippi to ask for a place in the Union? (From what country did we get
                    the territory out of which Missouri is formed?) Through how many sessions of
                    Congress did the debate over the admission of Missouri last? What was the cause
                    of this debate? At what time had the bringing of slaves into the United States
                    been forbidden? What had Pennsylvania and the States north of it done about
                    slavery before 1820? Why had the States to the southward retained their slaves?
                    How did the two divisions in the Union feel about each other? In bringing States
                    into the Union, how had the balance been kept good? How did the new States north
                    of the Ohio differ from those south of that river? Were there slaves in
                    Louisiana before the United States bought it? What new question arose when
                    Missouri offered to come in? Was the greater part in Missouri north or south of
                    the line between the free States and the slave States? What did the Northern
                    people wish regarding the new territory? How did most of the southern people
                    feel about it? How was the question decided? What was this decision called? In
                    what year was the Missouri Compromise made? What statesman took a leading part
                    in promoting it? What had he advocated in 1812?
                To what number had the States increased by this time? How many people
                    were there in the United States in 1820? How many times as many as the people at
                    the close of the Revolution, less than forty years before?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. States admitted between the adoption of the Constitution
                            in 1787, and the War of 1812.
                        1. Vermont, 1791, 2. Kentucky, 1792. 3. Tennesse, 1796. 4.
                            Ohio, 1803. 5. Louisiana, 1812.
                    
                    
                        II. States admitted between the second war with England and
                            the Missouri compromise.
                        1. Indiana, 1816. 2. Mississippi, 1817. 3. Illinois, 1818. 4.
                            Alabama, 1819. 5. Maine, 1820.
                    
                    
                        III. Missouri Compromise.
                        1. The abolition of the slave trade, 1808. 2. The abolition
                            of slavery in the Northern States. 3. Division of the States into two
                            classes. 4. A new question raised regrading  slavery in the territory bought from France. 5. How
                            the question was decided.
                    
                    
                        IV. Expansion of population by 1820.
                    
                
                On the blackboard, or on a large sheet of manila paper, draw a map of
                    the Union as it was in 1787, shading the old thirteen States, or tinting them
                    with colored crayons. Let the new States mentioned in this chapter be put in
                    outline. Then, as each State is reached in topical recitation, let it be shaded
                    or tinted like the rest, and the growth of the Union, step by step, will be
                    represented.
                
                    Blackboard illustration.
                
                
                The geographical study with reference to this chapter should have for
                    its first object the acquiring of a definite knowledge of the relative location
                    of each of the new States mentioned in the chapter. For this purpose consult the
                    list in the topics above, and let a description of the location of each State
                    and its surroundings accompany the topical recitation. Fix in the mind by
                    reference to the map the great east and west line between the free and slave
                    States in 1820, and the great north and south line mostly along the Mississippi,
                    between the territory possessed by the United States after the peace with
                    England in 1783, and the territory purchased from France in 1803.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XLIV.
                From Monroe to Van Buren.Rise of Whigs and
                    Democrats.
                
                    Monroe's presidency; the era of good-feeling.
                
                A GREAT part of the expansion to the
                    Union by the admission of new States, described in the preceding chapter, took
                    place in the presidency of James Monroe, who was chosen to that office in 1816.
                    Monroe was a man of even temper, with very little party feeling, and with the
                    greatest desire to be just and to act wisely. He was very popular, and his
                    administration was called "the era of good-feeling." The Federal party being now
                    almost extinct, Monroe was re-elected in 1820 without any opposing candidate.
                
                    JAMES MONROE.
                
                
                    Purchase of Florida from Spain, 1821.
                
                
                    James Monroe, fifth president, was born in Virginia in 1754. As
                        soon as he had graduated at William and Mary college, in 1776, he joined the
                        Revolutionary army. He distinguished himself in several battles. He was
                        minister to France and to England, and was secretary of State when Madison
                        was President. He was inaugurated President March 4, 1817, and served eight
                        years. After leaving the presidency he was very poor. He died in New York on
                        the 4th day of July, 1831. He was the third President to die on the 4th of
                        July.
                    Florida(For the early discovery and exploration of Florida, see
                        page 116.) French Protestants made a settlement in Florida in 1564, but they
                        were nearly all cruelly put to death by Spaniards in 1565. In this year the
                        Spaniards founded St. Augustine, the oldest town in the present United
                        States. In the treaty of 1763, Spain ceded Florida to England. In 1783 it
                        was ceded back to Spain. In 1821 it was conveyed to the United States by
                        Spain, and in 1845 it was admitted to the Union as the twenty-seventh
                    State.
                
                Next to the Missouri Compromise, of which we have spoken in the
                    preceding chapter, the most remarkable event of Monroe's administration was the
                    purchase of the Peninsula of Florida from Spain. This was completed in 1821, and
                    General Jackson, who had seized part of Florida during the War of 1812, and
                    again 
                        SPANISH STANDARD
                    
                     in the Seminole War of 1818, having
                    both times to relinquish it again, was now sent to receive the new province from
                    the Spanish governor.
                In 1823 the countries in America to the south of us, which had been
                    colonies of Spain, were striving to establish themselves as independent
                    republics, and it was feared that an alliance of Europe nations would help Spain
                    to subdue them. President Monroe, therefore, sent a message to Congress, in
                    which he announced what has always since been known as "The Monroe Doctrine."
                    This doctrine was, that the United States would object to any attempt on the
                    part of European powers to "extend their system" of interference to "any part of
                    this hemisphere." This was a declaration of independence for the whole of
                    America. The United States still maintains the principle as stated by Monroe.
                
                    Announcement of the "Monroe Doctrine," 1823.
                
                Monroe, who went out of office in 1825, was the last President
                    connected with the Revolution.
                For want of any issue between them, both the old parties had gone to
                    pieces, and new ones were not yet formed. There were four candidates for the
                    presidency in 1824: Crawford, Jackson, Adams, and Clay. No one of these got a
                    majority of the electoral votes, and the duty of electing a president devolved
                    on the House of Representatives.
                
                    John Quincy Adams elected by the House of Representatives in
                        1824.
                
                John Quincy Adams, the sixth President, was the son of John Adams,
                    the second President. He was born in Braintree, Mass., in 1767. He studied in
                    France and Holland, and spent some time in Sweden, Denmark, Russia, and England
                    while yet a boy. He graduated at Harvard College when he was twenty years old,
                    and studied law. He was at various times American minister at the courts of
                    Holland, England, Prussia, and Russia, and was one of commissioners to negotiate
                    the treaty with England at the close of the War of 1812. He was Secretary of
                    State in Monroe's Cabinet, and President of the United States from 1825 to 1829.
                    When he quitted the presidency he did not leave public life, but sat in the
                    lower house of Congress from 1831 to 1848, and this was the most brilliant part
                    of his career. At eighty years of age he was still called "The old man
                    eloquent." He died in the Capitol at Washington in 1848.
                
                John Quincy Adams, of Massachusetts, was chosen. The administration
                    of Adams was a stormy and unpopular one. He was extremely honest and faithful,
                    but, like his father, John Adams, he had no gift for winning friends. He could
                    not bend to the people; his cold manners and his disregard for the opinions of
                    others made him enemies, who succeeded in preventing his re-election.
                
                    JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
                
                In 1828 Andrew Jackson, of Tennessee, was chosen President, taking
                    office in March, 1829. He was re-elected in 1832, and held office in all for
                    eight years. Jackson was a man sincerely patriotic and honest, but self-willed
                    and of a violent temper.
                
                    Election of Andrew Jackson in 1828.
                
                
                    ANDREW JACKSON
                
                He was the first President who turned out of government office the
                    men who were opposed to him, appointing his own friends in their places. He
                    vetoed a great many 
                        Andrew Jackson, the seventh President, was born in North
                            Carolina in 1767. He joined the Revolutionary army in South Carolina
                            when he was but fourteen years old. He studied law and settled in
                            Nashville, Tenn. He was a member of the United States Senate and judge
                            of the Supreme Court of Tennessee before he became distinguished as a
                            soldier. His military achievements are told in Chapter XLII. He was
                            President from 1829 to 1837. As the first President that had risen from
                            the ranks of the common people, he was very popular, and was supposed to
                            represent the American ideas of the time. He was called "Old Hickory" by
                            his admirers. He died in 1845.
                    
                     acts of Congress. He succeeded in
                    breaking down the United States Bank, which, up to that time, had kept the
                    public moneys. He vetoed almost all the measures proposed for the promotion of
                    roads and other "internal improvements" by the general government. Jackson set
                    his face against the doctrine advanced by John C. Calhoun, of South Carolina, in
                    his time, that a State could "nullify" a law of the United States. The business
                    of the United States with other nations was conducted during Jackson's
                    administration with great spirit and ability, and the country was respected
                    abroad.
                
                    Character of Jackson's administration.
                
                As the moderate and peaceful administration of Monroe caused the
                    dissolution of the old Federal and Republican parties, so the administration of
                    a man of strong party feeling and of stormy temper like Jackson made new party
                    divisions. Jackson loved his friends and hated all opponents. The country came
                    to be divided into Jackson men and anti-Jackson men. The Jackson men claimed to
                    succeed to the old Democratic-Republican party, they were called "Democrats."
                    Those who were opposed to Jackson were called "Whigs," a name formerly applied
                    in England to the party opposed to the arbitrary power of the king. The
                    principal feature of American politics for about twenty 
                        Rise of the Whing and Democratic Parties.
                    
                    
                        JOHN C. CALHOUN.
                    
                     years was the rivalry of the Whig
                    and Democratic parties.
                The main differences between the Whig party and the Democratic were:
                
                    Difference between the parties.
                    Clay, Calhoun, and Webster are often spoken of together. They
                        were the three great statesmen of what is sometimes known as "the compromise
                        period" of American history. Henry Clay was born in Virginia in 1777. He was
                        a poor boy, and gained his education with difficulty. He settled in Kentucky
                        as a young man, and long represented that State in the House of
                        Representatives and the Senate. John C. Calhoun was born in South Carolina
                        in 1782, and graduated at Yale College. Clay and Calhoun were both bold
                        advocates of the war with England in 1812. Webster, who was born in the same
                        year with Calhoun, entered Congress in 1813, during the war. From this time
                        these three men gradually came to the front as the greatest masters of the
                        art of debate the country had known. Calhoun was a member of Monroe's
                        Cabinet, Clay of John Quincy Adams's, Webster of Harrison's and Fillmore's.
                        But they were all three greatest in Congress. Each of them desired to be
                        President, but all were disappointed. Calhoun was Vice-President for eight
                        years, from 1825 to 1833. Clay was active in bringing about the Missouri
                        Compromise, which Calhoun favored. Later than this Calhoun became the chief
                        advocate of the doctrine that the States were sovereign, and that the Union
                        was a compact of sovereign States. Clay and Webster, on the other hand, were
                        advocates of the authority of the Union. Clay was the author of the
                        Compromise of 1850, which Webster favored. Calhoun died in 1850; Clay and
                        Webster in 1852.
                
                1. That the Whigs advocated the re-establishment of the United States
                    Bank; the Democrats opposed it.
                2. The Whigs were in favor of the building of roads and canals at the
                    expense of the United States. The Democrats did not believe that the government
                    of the Union should undertake "internal improvements," as roads and canals were
                    then called.
                3. The Whigs generally wished to increase the power of the United
                    State government; 
                        HERY CLAY.
                    
                     the Democrats were more in favor of
                    what were called in favor of what were called States' rights. The Democrats
                    thought that, whatever power the Constitution did not expressly give to the
                    general government, could only be exercised by the States.
                The great leaders of the Whig party were Henry Clay, of Kentucky, and
                    Daniel Webster, of Massachusetts. These were two of the greatest orators the
                    country has ever known. Another orator of the first rank, John C. Calhoun, of
                    South Carolina, was on the Democratic side. He believed in the power of a State
                    to "nullify" a law of the nation. But the Democratic party generally agreed with
                    Jackson, that the laws of the United States were supreme until the courts
                    decided them unconstitutional.
                
                    DANIEL WEBSTER.
                
                
                    The great party leaders, Clay, Webster, and Calhoun.
                
                In 1836 Martin Van Buren, of New York, was nominated by the Democrats
                    and elected President. He followed the policy of Jackson, but in a gentler way.
                    He did not veto any bills passed by Congress.
                
                    Election of Van Buren, 1836.
                
                What President took office in 1816? What kind of a man was Monroe?
                    How was he liked by the people? What was his administration called? What was
                    remarkable about his second election in 1820?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What territory did the United States acquire during Monroe's
                    presidency? Form what country did we get it? Who was sent to take possession of
                    Florida in 1821? Had he ever been there before? Under what circumstances? What
                    colonies were trying to establish themselves as independent republics? What
                    declaration did Monroe  make in 1823
                    regarding the interference of European nations with the affairs of America? What
                    is this declaration called? Who was the last of the Revolutionary Presidents?
                    How many candidates were there for President in 1824? What happened in this
                    election? Who was chosen by the House of Representatives? How did the
                    administration of Adams differ from that of Monroe? What was John Quincy Adams's
                    character? Was he re-elected? Was his father elected a second time? (See page
                    226.) Who was elected in 1828? What had Jackson done before this? (See page
                    254.) What kind of a man was Jackson? What did he do in regard to the
                    office-holders who were opposed to him? What was his course regarding acts of
                    Congress? What influence did he have on the United States Bank? What course did
                    he take regarding roads and canals? What doctrine did Calhoun and others
                    advocate? How did Jackson treat this doctrine of "nullification"? How did he
                    conduct the business of the country with foreign nations? What effect did
                    Jackson's administration have on political parties? What were Jackson's friends
                    called? What were those opposed to Jackson called? For about how many years did
                    the struggle between Democratic and Whig parties occupy the field of American
                    politics? Give an account of the differences between the two parties in regard
                    to the Bank of the United States. In regard to internal improvement. Which party
                    favored States rights as opposed to the power of the general government? What
                    did the Democrats think about the Constitution? Who were the great leaders of
                    the Whig party? What great orator of the time was on the Democratic side? How
                    did he Democrats generally feel about Calhoun's theory of the right of a State
                    to "nullify" the acts of Congress? Who was chosen President in 1836? By what
                    party? What policy did he follow? How did he differ from Jackson?
                
                    
                        I. Monroe's administration. 
                                
                                    1. "The era of good feeling."
                                
                                
                                    2. The acquisition of Florida.
                                
                                
                                    3. The "Monroe doctrine."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. John Quincy Adams's administration. 
                                
                                    1. Election of J. Q. Adams.
                                
                                
                                    2. His character.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Jackson's administration.
                        
                            
                                1. Jackson's election and character.
                            
                            
                                2. His course with regard to
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        a. Office-holders.
                    
                    
                        b. Vetoes.
                    
                    
                        c. United States Bank.
                    
                    
                        d. Internal improvements.
                    
                    
                        e. Nullification.
                    
                    
                        f. Foreign affairs.
                    
                
                
                    DRESS OF A LADY IN JACKSON'S TIME.
                
                
                
                    
                        IV. New parties.
                        
                            
                                1. Their formation.
                            
                            
                                2. Their differences.
                            
                            
                                3. Their leaders.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Van Buren's administration.
                    
                
                The location of Florida with reference to Georgia and Alabama. With
                    reference to the Spanish possessions in Cuba.
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XLV.
                The Steamboat, the Railroad, and the Telegraph.
                SOON after 1800, certain changes
                    began in ways of travel that have made life different from that of our
                    forefathers. We have seen in previous chapters that travel in old times was very
                    slow. Men jogged along day after day and week after week to make a journey of
                    hundreds of miles on horseback, or they were jolted over bad roads in
                    stage-wagons or carriages. Pack-horses or heavy wagons carried all the freight
                    that went by land. Boats, rowed or pushed with poles, went slowly up and down
                    the rivers, carrying passengers and freight. Periaugers, with oars and sails,
                    and other small vessels, plied up and down the coast, and all the ships at sea
                    were propelled by sails.
                
                    ROBERT FULTON.
                
                
                    Modes of travel at the beginning of the 19th century.
                
                In ships our people made great improvements. The "Baltimore clipper,"
                    a schooner with raking maststhat is, masts that slanted backwardwas famous for
                    its speed. Our frigates gained advantages in the War 
                        Improvement in ships made by Americans. The Baltimore
                            clippers.
                    
                     of 1812 by being better sailers than
                    that English men-of-war. At a later period the American "clipper-built ships"
                    were the swiftest sailing-vessels in the world. This superiority in building and
                    sailing swift ships has remained with America to the present time, as recent
                    yachtraces have shown.
                
                    BALTIMORE CLIPPER.
                
                After the invention of the steam-engine in England, attempts were
                    made in France, Scotland, and America to built boats that would go by steam. But
                    Robert Fulton, an American, built the first really successful steamboat. She was
                    launched in 1807, and ran between New York and Albany, to the great wonder of
                    all who saw her. Steamboats soon after took the place of keel-boats (page 233)
                    on the Western rivers, and they greatly aided in the rapid development of the
                    new country.
                
                    Fulton's first steamboat, 1807.
                
                
                    FULTON'S FIRST STEAMBOAT.
                
                Steamboats served for commerce and travel where there were rivers and
                    lakes. But how should the traffic on the Western rivers and the Great Lakes be
                    connected with the rivers east of the Alleghany Mountains and the sea? Canals,
                    long used in Europe, were thought of for this purpose, and Washington was much
                    interested in a proposed canal from the Potomac to the Ohio River. But the first
                    great canal in this country was that from 
                        The Erie and other canals.
                    
                     the Hudson River to Lake Erie. The
                    chief promoter of this work was De Witt Clinton, governor of New York. It was
                    eight years in construction. It was begun on the 4th of July, 1817, and in 1825
                    its completion was celebrated by a procession of boats from Albany to the ocean,
                    where Governor De Witt Clinton poured a keg of Lake Erie water into the sea, as
                    a sign of their union. This canal, by opening a trade with the West, made New
                    York the greatest city of the United States.
                
                    THE WAY THAT LITTLE GIRLS DRESSED WHEN GRANDMA WAS
                        A CHILD.
                
                But, for the more mountainous country of the Middle States, a great "
                    National Road " for wagons was planned and built from western Maryland as far as
                    the western part of Indiana. The extension of railroads soon rendered it of no
                    importance as a national work.
                
                    The "National Road."
                
                But the greatest change of all, in the life of Americans, was made by
                    the railway, which was introduced from England. The first railroads were merely
                    tracks of iron bars, on which little cars, loaded with coal, were drawn from the
                    mines. The first railway in the United States was but two miles long, and was
                    used only for hauling stone. The cars were drawn by horses. The first
                    passenger-train in America was run on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in 1830,
                    but the cars were drawn by horses the first year. The extension of railways was
                    very rapid; they changed America more than any other country, because here the
                    distances are so great. We have almost as many miles of railway as all the world
                    besides.
                
                    Railroads introduced about 1830.
                
                
                    A BONNET OF 1830.
                
                The first passenger-cars were merely stage-coaches on the rails, and
                    in other countries they still keep something 
                        American improvements in railroads.
                    
                    
                        FIRST STEAM PASSENGER-TRAIN IN AMERICA.
                    
                     of this form. In America large, airy
                    cars for passengers were early introduced, and the parlor-car, the sleeping-car,
                    the hotel-car, and the dining-car are all of American origin, and are little
                    used elsewhere. The street tramway, or horse-railroad, and the elevated railways
                    for rapid travel in cities, were first used in this country.
                The electric telegraph, in its present practical shape, was the
                    invention of an American artist, S. F. B. Morse. In old times people sent
                    messaged by objects shown on high ground, by lights displayed at night, or by
                    bonfires kindled on the hills. Even the wild Indians sent intelligence across
                    the plains by waving a blanket over a fire and thus making a "smoke-signal." In
                    1835 Morse set up and worked a telegraphic wire. But it was nine years later
                    before he could persuade Congress to appropriate money to set up the first line.
                    In 1844 the first message was sent from Washington to Baltimore.
                
                    Invention of the electric telegraph.
                
                
                    S. F. B. MORSE.
                
                
                    Morse had gone to his lodgings in despair on the last night of
                        the session of Congress. There were a large number of bills in advance of
                        the one for promoting the telegraph. But the next morning the daughter of
                        Commissioner Ellsworth called at his lodgings and informed him that a bill
                        had passed granting $30,000 to build an experimental telegraph line. When
                        the line was built from Washington to Baltimore, this young lady was allowed
                        to dictate the first dispatch, which she did, sending the words, "What hath
                        God wrought!" The first public news dispatch brought to Washington the
                        intelligence that James K. Polk had been nominated for President.
                
                
                    Change in modes of living produced by railroad and telegraph.
                
                The introduction of the railway and the invention of the telegraph
                    have completely changed the conditions of our life. In former times it was weeks
                    after a presidential election before the result could be generally  known. So wide is our country to-day
                    that, if intelligence had to be carried, as formerly, by stage-coaches and
                    post-boys on horseback, it would take months for an important event to be known
                    in remote regions of the country. Now, every important bit of news is known from
                    end to end of the country in a few hours. Railroads, too, have made distant
                    places seem near together, and distributed the comforts of civilization to the
                    most remote parts of the country.
                What changes began to take place soon after 1800? How did our
                    forefathers travel by land? How was freight carried over land? What means of
                    conveyance was there on the rivers? What kind of vessels sailed along the coast?
                    How were all the ships at sea propelled?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What kind of improved ships did the Americans build? What advantage
                    did the Baltimore clipper have over other vessels? How were its masts arranged?
                    What advantage did our frigates have in the War of 1812? What is said of the
                    relative speed of some of our sailing-vessels at the present time compared with
                    those of other countries? In what country was the steam-engine invented? In what
                    countries were attempts made to build steam-engine invented? In what countries
                    were attempts made to build steamboats? Who built the first really successful
                    steamboat? To what country did Fulton belong? Between what places did his first
                    steamboat run in 1807? (What water would a boat sail on from New York to
                    Albany?) What effect did the invention of steamboats have on the new country
                    west of the Alleghanies? What plan was thought of for connecting the steamboat
                    commerce and travel on the Western rivers and Great Lakes with the commerce of
                    the Eastern rivers and the sea? What canal project was Washington interested in?
                    What was the first great canal in this country? Who was the chief promoter of
                    this work? How long did it take to build the Erie Canal? How was its completion
                    celebrated in 1825? What effect did the Erie Canal have on New York city? What
                    plan was adopted for travel and conveyance of freight across the Alleghany
                    Mountains? In what State did the National Road begin? To what State did it
                    extend?
                In what country did the railway originate? For what were the first
                    railroads used? On what railway was the first passenger-train in the United
                    States used? How were the cars drawn on this road in 1830? Why did railroads
                    work a greater change in American life than in that of any other people? What
                    country has the most miles of railway?
                
                What were the first passenger-cars like? How do our cars differ from
                    most of those in other countries? What forms of the railway-car were first used
                    in America? In what country was the electric telegraph invented? How were
                    messages sent in former times? How do the wild Indians telegraph? Who invented
                    our present system of telegraphing? How long was it after he began to work at it
                    before he got a line established? Between what places was his first line set up?
                    How long would it take for an important event to become known in remote parts of
                    our great country if we had only the stage-coach and post-boy on horseback? What
                    were the effects of railroad and telegraph on our life?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. The old modes of travel.
                        
                            
                                I. By land.
                            
                            
                                2. By water.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Improvements in navigation.
                        
                            
                                1. Swift ships.
                            
                            
                                2. The steamboat.
                            
                            
                                3. The Erie Canal.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Land-travel.
                        
                            
                                1. The National Road.
                            
                            
                                2. The railroad.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The telegraph.
                        
                            
                                1. Old methods of signaling.
                            
                            
                                2. Morse's invention.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Effects of the railroad and telegraph on our life.
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER XLVI.
                Annexation of Texas.Beginning of the Mexican
                    War.
                DURING the administration of Van
                    Buren, various causes brought on severe financial distress in 1837. The "hard
                    times" were attributed by the people to the hostility of Van Buren to the banks.
                
                    MEXICAN FLAG.
                
                In 1840 General William H. Harrison was nominated by the Whigs
                    against Van Buren. The canvass of that year was one of wild excitement. The
                    Whigs, to 
                        The "hard times" of 1837.
                    
                    
                        Harrison elected President, 1840. His death.
                    
                    
                        William Henry Harrison, ninth President, was born in Charles
                            City Country, Virginia, in 1773. His father was Benjamin Harrison,
                            Governor of Virginia. He was educated at Hampden Sidney College. He
                            entered the army an ensign in 1791, and was aide-de-camp to General
                            Wayne in his campaign in Ohio (see page 217). He was afterward Secretary
                            of the Northwest Territory, delegate in Congress, the first Governor of
                            Indiana Territory, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs. His military
                            life is told in chapters XL and XLII of this book. His death took place
                            in 1841.
                    
                     please the popular feeling of the
                    time, boasted that their candidate lived in a log-cabin and drank hard cider.
                    They drew log-cabins on wheels in their processions. It is known in the history
                    of American politics as the "Log-cabin and Hard-cider Campaign." Harrison was
                    triumphantly elected, and was inaugurated amid wild rejoicings. But he died in
                    one month after the beginning of his term.
                
                    WILLIAM H. HARRISON
                
                John Tyler, of Virginia, who had been elected Vice-President in the
                    "Hard-cider Campaign," became President on the death of Harrison. He did not
                    sympathize with his party in their views regarding the bank question, and when
                    Congress passed a bill for its re-establishment he vetoed the measure. This act
                    brought on him the anger of the Whigs and a suspicion of bad faith. His whole
                    administration was passed in dissension with the party that elected him, and he
                    left office without honor.
                
                    Tyler President.
                
                
                    John Tyler, born in Virginia, 1790. He was a member of Congress
                        and Governor of Virginia. Died 1862.
                
                
                    JOHN TYLER
                
                In 1844 the Whigs nominated the eloquent Henry Clay for President;
                    the Democrats nominated  James K.
                    Polk, of Tennessee. Polk; who advocated the annexation of Texas, was elected.
                The most important event of Tyler's administration was the passage of
                    a bill for the annexation of Texas, which was accomplished just before Tyler
                    gave up office to Polk. Texas had been one of the States of the Republic of
                    Mexico. A large number of Americans had settled on grants of land there. These
                    came into collision with the Mexican government, which was arbitrary and
                    oppressive, and an armed revolution broke out in Texas in 1835. The Texans were
                    commanded by General Sam Houston, and after several defeats achieved their
                    independence. For about ten years Texas was an independent country, and was
                    treated as such by several European nations as well as by the United States. It
                    was annexed to the United States by treaty, and admitted to the Union in 1845.
                    In territory it is about the size of France.
                
                    Texas becomes an independent country, and is annexed to the
                        United States.
                
                
                    JAMES K. POLK.
                
                The annexation of Texas was strongly opposed by many people in the
                    United States because its laws allowed slavery, and it would be an addition to
                    the power of the slave-holding States. Its annexation was also opposed by many
                    of the Whigs, who feared a war with Mexico, for Mexico had never given up its
                    hope of reconquering Texas.
                
                    Opposition to the annexation of Texas.
                
                
                    James K. Polk, born in Tennessee, 1795. He was Speaker of the
                        House of Representatives at one time, and was nominated for the presidency
                        in preference to Martin Van Buren, because the latter was opposed to the
                        immediate annexation of Texas. Polk died, 1849.
                
                
                There were already other grounds of quarrel with Mexico. In its
                    violent revolution American citizens had been robbed of a great deal of property
                    by those claiming authority. As one Mexican government quickly overthrew
                    another, the United States tried in vain to get a payment of what was due to our
                    citizens. And even if Mexico had consented to the annexation of Texas, there
                    would have remained a dispute about its true boundary. Our government supported
                    the claim of Texas, that the Rio Grande [ree'-o grand'-deh] was the true border,
                    while Mexico would not allow that the State of Texas extended farther to the
                    west than the Nueces [noo-eth'-ez] River. Grounds of quarrel with Mexico.
                When General Taylor occupied this disputed territory, in 1846, the
                    Mexicans attacked his troops, and thus hostilities began. With a force much
                    inferior to the Mexicans, Taylor fought and won the battle of Palo Alto
                    [Pah'-loo ah'-to], and afterward attacked and defeated them in a strong position
                    at Resaca de la Palma [ray-sac'-ah day lah pall'-mah].
                
                    Beginning of the Mexican War.
                
                
                These defeats drove the Mexicans across the Rio Grande. In May Taylor
                    crossed the river and took possession of the city of Matamoros. But the Mexicans
                    showed no disposition to make peace. Having received re-enforcements, Taylor
                    marched on the fortified city of Monterey [mon-teh-ray'], which was defended by
                    more 
                        Capture of Monterey.
                    
                     than ten thousand Mexicans. Taylor's
                    force was smaller. The place was captured on the 24th of September, 1846, after
                    several days of hard fighting.
                General Taylor now advanced farther into Mexico, but the United
                    States government changed its plans, and orders were sent to Taylor to detach
                    all but five thousand of his troops to the assistance of General Scott, who was
                    to command in a new campaign, which was to be made into Mexico by way of Vera
                    Cruz [vayrah crooth']. Thus weakened, General Taylor took up a strong position
                    at Buena Vista [bway'-nah vees'-tah], where he was attacked by twenty thousand
                    Mexicans under Santa Anna. After two days of the most courageous fighting, and
                    after running the greatest risk of an overwhelming defeat, the little American
                    army achieved the most brilliant victory of the war.
                
                    Battle of Buena Vista.
                
                By this time the war had shown the immense superiority of the
                    American troops, the most of whom were volunteers. The Mexicans often fought
                    bravely, but the frequent revolutions and pretty civil wars in Mexico had
                    demoralized officers and soldiers. The arms of the Mexicans were also out of
                    date. The Americans of that time were brave and enterprising, and a little too
                    fond of military glory. They fought with great boldness and steadiness, and
                    their early victories made them expect success.
                What happened in 1837? Who was President during the "hard times of
                    thirty-seven"? To what did the people attribute this financial distress? Who was
                    nominated against Van Buren in 1840? What was the character of the canvass? What
                    boast did the Whigs make about Harrison? What did they display in their
                    processions? What was the political campaign of 1840 called? Which was elected,
                    Harrison or Van Buren? How long did Harrison live after his inauguration? 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     (what battle had Harrison fought in
                    Indiana? What fort did he defend in Ohio? What decisive battle did he fight in
                    Canada? See pages 251, 252.) Who succeeded to the presidency when Harrison died?
                    In what regard did he differ from the Whig party which had elected him? What did
                    he do when they passed a bill to establish the bank again? What did the Whigs
                    think of this act? How was his administration passed?
                Who was elected to succeed Tyler in 1844? What was the most important
                    measure of Tyler's administration? To what country and Texas belonged? How did a
                    revolution rise in Texas in 1835? Who commanded the Texans? What was the result
                    of the rebellion in Texas? How long did Texas remain an independent nation? How
                    was it annexed to the United States in 1845? How does it compare with France in
                    size? Why was the annexation of Texas opposed in the United States? What was
                    feared in regard to Mexico? What did Mexico claim regarding Texas?
                
                What other cause for quarrel with Mexico was there? Why could not the
                    United States get a settlement of the claims of our citizens against Mexico?
                    What dispute was there between Mexico and Texas? What did our government claim
                    as the western border of Texas? What river did the Mexicans claim was the
                    border? What did General Taylor do in 1846? What battle did he fight? What
                    strong position did he attack and carry?
                
                What effect did these defeats have? What city did Taylor take in May?
                    On which side of the Rio Grande is Matamoros? What city did Taylor now march
                    against? Which army had the more troops? What was the result of Taylor's attack
                    on Monterey? What did Taylor do after taking Monterey? Why was a great part of
                    Taylor's troops taken away from him? What battle did Taylor fight with five
                    thousand men? How many Mexicans  were
                    there against him? What was the result? How did the American troops compare with
                    the Mexicans? What had demoralized the Mexicans? What kind of arms did they
                    have? What was the character of the Americans of the time? How did they fight?
                
                    
                        I. Political events.
                        
                            
                                1. The effect of the hard times.
                            
                            
                                2. The log-cabin campaing.
                            
                            
                                3. Death of Harrison.
                            
                            
                                4. Tyler's break with the Whigs.
                            
                            
                                5. Polk's election.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Texas.
                        
                            
                                1. As a Mexican State.
                            
                            
                                2. As an independent country.
                            
                            
                                3. Its annexation.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Mesican War.
                        
                            
                                1. Causes of the war.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            a. Mexican claim to Texas.
                    
                    
                        
                            b. Damage done to citizens of the United
                            States.
                    
                    
                        
                            c. The boundary of Texas.
                    
                
                
                    
                        2. Taylor's invasion of Mexico.
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            a. East of the Rio Grande.
                    
                    
                        
                            b. Matamoros and Monterey.
                    
                    
                        
                            c. Buena vista.
                    
                
                
                    
                        IV. superiority of the American soliders.
                        
                            
                                1. Mesicans and their arms.
                            
                            
                                2. Character of the Americans.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics
                
                
                    SHOWING RELATION BETWEEN TAYLOR'S CAMPAIGN AND
                        SCOTT'S
                
                The pupil should be required to describe the location of Texas with
                    reference to Mexico, to the United States, to Louisiana, and to the gulf of
                    Mexico. Describe the position of Palo Alto, Resaca de la Palma, and Matamoros to
                    one another, and to the Rio Grande. In what part of Mexico were Taylor's
                    operations carried on?
                
                    Geography.
                
                The teacher may draw an outline-map on the blackboard and the
                    location of each battle-field, without writing any name. Then let the pupils in
                    turn each write the name of some battle opposite the mark of its location. Or
                    the pupil may be required to make outline-maps on paper, as directed in Chapter
                    II and some other.
                Ripley's "History of the Mexican War." Books.
                
                    Books.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XLVII.
                The Close of the Mexican War, and the
                    Annexation of New Territory.
                IT is probable that the government of the United States expected at
                    first to conclude the war after one or two battles by Taylor on the east side of
                    the Rio Grande. But if the Mexicans proved themselves as soldiers inferior to
                    the troops which marched against them, they showed themselves stubborn in their
                    refusal to treat for peace after repeated defeats. Mexico was so filled with
                    factions, and one Mexican government was so soon turned out by another, that no
                    government felt itself strong enough to take the responsibility of making a
                    humiliating peace.
                
                    Persistence of the Mexicans.
                
                
                    SANTA ANNA.
                
                The war had been begun for the purpose of securing Texas, and of
                    enforcing the claim of Texas to the territory east of the Rio Grande. But many
                    of the American people at that time were eager for more territory, and the
                    object of the war was changed. Soon after the war was declared, Colonel Kearny
                    was sent to conquer the thinly settled northern portion of Mexico and Upper
                    California. New Mexico was surrendered to the United States without resistance
                    in August, 1846. A civil government, subject to the United States, was
                    immediately established there. Conquest of New Mexico.
                
                    Conquest of California.
                
                In California matters were hurried up by the presence of an
                    adventurous lieutenant, John C. Fremont, who was at the head of an exploring
                    party. Under his lead the few American settlers there established an independent
                    government. The United States ships of war on the  coast seized the California ports, and the whole country was
                    thus annexed to the United States. It now became the main object with the United
                    States to close the war in such a way as not to surrender the great territory
                    thus acquired.
                When it became evident that General Taylor's victories in northern
                    Mexico only wounded the vanity of the Mexicans without subduring them, it was
                    resolved to land a force at Vera Cruz and march into the interior. It was
                    thought that the Mexicans would readily make peace when their capital was
                    threatened.
                
                    Scott's expedition planned.
                
                General Scott, at that time commander-in-chief of the American
                    armies, took charge of this expedition. He landed on the 9th of March, 1847, and
                    immediately laid siege to Vera Cruz. The city surrendered on the 27th of the
                    same month.
                
                    Vera Cruz taken.
                
                
                    
                        California.The name of this State while it
                        belonged to Mexico was Alta California, or, in English, Upper California;
                        Lower California still remains a part of Mexico. Upper California was first
                        visited by the Spaniards in 1542. Sir Francis Drake, the same who took
                        Ralegh's colony back to England in 1585, visited Upper California in 1579,
                        calling it New Albion, which means New England. It was nearly two hundred
                        years later, in 1769, when Catholic missionaries from spain made the first
                        settlement of white people in that country. There were only about then
                        thousand white inhabitants in the whole province when it was seized by the
                        United States in 1846. In the summer of that year California settlers from
                        the United States set up a movement for independence, and tried to establish
                        a government, known now as "The Bear Flag Republic." They were aided by
                        captain Fremont (afterward a general), who was in the province as the leader
                        of an exploring expedition. United States naval officers on the coast,
                        expecting a war between the United States and Mexico, raised the American
                        flag on shore, and after some fighting, the province remained in American
                        hands, and was definitely annexed at the close of the Mexican War. In 1848
                        gold was discovered in California, and the next year many thousands of
                        people from the Eastern States sailed around Cape Horn to seek their
                        fortunes in the richest gold-mines in the world. In 1849 the people formed a
                        State government, and the State was admitted to the Union in 1850. at first
                        its chief interest was gold-mining, but now it is a State of very great
                        agricultural resources, especially in fruit-growing.
                
                Marching into the interior, General Scott found the Mexican general,
                    Santa Anna, opposing him at a strongly fortified position. On the 18th and 19th
                    of April, 1847, Scott fought the battle of Cerro Gordo [ther'-ro gor'-do], 
                        Battle of Cerro Gordo.
                    
                     completely defeating and dispersing
                    the Mexican army. But the more the Mexicans were defeated, the more unwilling
                    were they to make peace with an invading army.
                One of the most difficult undertakings that ever fell to the lot of
                    an army now became necessary. The American army of ten thousand men had advanced
                    into the very heart of Mexico. It had to subsist on the country, and to attack
                    the Mexicans, now rallying in great numbers, in strongly fortified positions.
                
                    Difficulty of Scott's march.
                
                
                    WINFIELD SCOTT.
                
                Arrived in the region of the capital, General Scott fought and won
                    the battle of Contreras [con-tray'-ras] on August 20, 1847, and the battle of
                    Churubusco [choo-rooboos'-co] on the same day. After this battle there was an
                    armistice, but attempts at negotiation failed, and on the 8th of September Scott
                    defeated the Mexicans at Molino del Ray [mo-lee'-no del ray]. On the morning of
                    September 13th the American troops carried the fortress of Chapultepec
                    [chah-pool-ta-pec'] by storm, going over the works with scaling-ladders and
                    fighting a hand-to-hand battle within the castle walls. The city of Mexico was
                    attacked at the same time, and the next 
                        Battles about the capital. Surrender of the city of
                        Mexico.
                    
                    
                        
                            Winfield Scott was born in Petersburg,
                            Va., in 1786. He entered the army in 1808. His brilliant services in
                            various battles during the War of 1812 had raised him by the close of
                            the war to the rank of major-general. In 1841 he became general-in-chief
                            of the army. His conquering march form Vera Cruz to the city of Mexico
                            has been described in the city of Mexico has been described in the text.
                            He ran for President in 1852 and was defected. When the civil war began,
                            he was seventy-five years old, and he was obliged, by his infirmities,
                            to yield the chief command to younger men. He died in 1866, at the age
                            of eighty.
                    
                     day is was evacuated by the Mexicans
                    and occupied by General Scott.
                
                    Peace concluded, February, 1848.
                
                Although the Mexicans had lost every considerable battle from the
                    beginning of the war to the conquest of the capital, their national pride made
                    them very loath to make peace. In February, 1848, nearly five months after the
                    capture of the capital, a peace was signed, by which all the territory of New
                    Mexico, as then constituted, and Upper California became United States
                    territory. Our government, however, agreed to pay fifteen million dollars to
                    Mexico, and to pay the claims of our own citizens against Mexico.
                There has always been a difference of opinion in the United States
                    about the Mexican War. Even at the present time opinions are divided at to
                    whether it might not have been wisely avoided. It cost us the lives of thousands
                    of brave men who fell in fighting on a foreign soil, or perished by the heat of
                    the climate and the diseases of the country, and it caused much misery to
                    innocent people in Mexico. No doubt, the ignorance and prejudice prevailing in
                    Mexico at that time, and the frequent overthrow of one government and the
                    setting up of another, made it difficult to treat with that country without war.
                
                    The territory acquired from Mexico.
                
                The territory acquired from Mexico, first and last, was larger than
                    the United States at the close of the Revolutionary War. It comprised all the
                    territory now included in Texas, California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, the greater
                    part of Colorado, and a part of Wyoming.
                When the Mexican War broke out, we were engaged in a dispute with
                    England about our claim to the country of the Pacific Ocean to the north of
                    California. This 
                        Dispute about the Oregon country.
                    
                     had been settled in 1846 in such a
                    way as to give us what is now the State of Oregon and the Territory of
                    Washington. Our claim to this country was chiefly founded on the discoveries
                    made there by a Boston sea-captain in 1792, and by and expedition sent out by
                    President Jefferson in 1804.
                After the admission of Missouri in 1821, no new States were taken
                    into the Union for fifteen years. Arkansas was admitted as a slave State in
                    1836, and was balanced by Michigan, which came in as a free State in the
                    following year. Two States in the extreme South were admitted in 1845Florida,
                    which we had acquired from Spain (page 264), and Texas, which had been a part of
                    Mexico and then an independent republic (page 278). But in 1846 Iowa was
                    admitted, and in 1848 the extreme northern State of Wisconsin. In 1848 Congress
                    admitted California, the first State on the Pacific coast, which was then like a
                    new world to Americans.
                
                    Admission of Arkansas, 1836; Michigan, 1837; Florida and Texas,
                        1845; Iowa, 1846; Wisconsisn and California, 1848.
                
                
                    SCOTT'S CAMPAIGN FROM VERA CRUZ TO THE CITY OF
                        MEXICO.
                
                What did our government expect at the beginning of the war with
                    Mexico? Why was Mexico stubborn in its refusal to treat for peace?
                
                    Questions for study
                
                For what objects had the war been begun? How did many of our people
                    feel at that time about the acquisition of new territory? What was Colonel
                    Kearny sent to do? What were the northern parts of Mexico as it then existed
                    called? When New Mexico surrendered to the United States in 1846, what was done
                    about its government? What hurried up the conquest of California? What was
                    Fremont doing there?
                
                What did the American settlers there do? What part did United Stated
                    ships of war take in the conquest? What now became the main Object of the war?
                    What new expedition against Mexico was planned? What was it expected to
                    accomplish? Who took charge of this new expedition? Where did Scott land? In
                    what year? What month? What city did he besiege? With what result? What Mexican
                    general did he find opposing him when he marched into the interior? What battle
                    did he fight? What was the result to the Mexican army? How did this affect the
                    Mexicans as to peace?
                What kind of a task was now before the soldiers under Scott? Why was
                    the undertaking difficult? What two battles were fought on the 20th of August,
                    1847? How did attempts to treat for peace after these battles result? What is
                    the name of the battle fought on the 8th of September? What fortress was carried
                    by storm on the 13th of September? What now befell the capital of Mexico? Had
                    the Mexicans won any battle? What made them loath to conclude at treaty of
                    peace? How long was it after the city of Mexico was captured when the Mexicans
                    consented to make peace? What provinces were ceded to the United states? How
                    much money did our government agree to pay to Mexico? How did the most of the
                    Whigs fell about the Mexican War? Why did antislavery men oppose it? What
                    opinions are held about it today? What is said of the amount of territory
                    received from Mexico? What States and Territories have been made from it? On
                    what was out claim to the country now included in Oregon and Washington
                    Territory founded? With what country did the 
                     United States have a dispute about
                    it? How was it settled in 1846? What new slave State was admitted in 1836? What
                    free State in the next year? What two extreme Southern States were admitted in
                    1845? What two Northern States were admitted in 1846 and 1848? What extreme
                    Western State came into the Union?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Object of the war charged.
                        
                            
                                1. Stubborn resistance of the Mexicans.
                            
                            
                                2. Factious divisions of the Mexicans.
                            
                            
                                3. Desire for new territory.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Conquest of the northern provinces.
                        
                            
                                1. New Mexico.
                            
                            
                                2. California.
                            
                            
                                3. Desire to retain this territory.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. General Scott's campaign.
                        
                            
                                1. Its plan.
                            
                            
                                2. Capture of Vera Cruz.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Cerro Gordo.
                            
                            
                                4. Battles near the city of Mexico.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                    a. Contreras and Churubusco.
                            
                            
                                
                                    b.The armistice.
                            
                            
                                
                                    c.Molino del Rey.
                            
                            
                                
                                    d.Occupation of the capital.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                IV. The peace. February, 1848.
                            
                            
                                V. Differences of opinion about the war.
                                
                                    
                                        1. The opposition of the Whigs at the
                                            beginning.
                                    
                                    
                                        2. The opposition of anti-slavery men.
                                    
                                    
                                        3. Losses by the war.
                                    
                                    
                                        4. Difficulty of dealing with Mexico without
                                            a war.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                VI. New territory and new States.
                                
                                    
                                        1. The territory annexed from Mexico.
                                    
                                    
                                        2. The Oregon country.
                                    
                                    
                                        3. New States.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        The location of the several battles of Scott's expedition may
                            be learned in the way used for those of Taylor's campaign in the
                            previous chapter. Describe the location of the territory acquired form
                            Mexico an its present division into States and Territories. What great
                            river borders Arkansas on the east? What State north of it?  What State south of it? What
                            lakes border Michigan? By what waters is Florida bounded? How does it
                            compare with other States in the matter of sea-coast? What great river
                            is on the east of Iowa? What on the west? What State between Iowa and
                            Arkansas? Between what river and lake is Wisconsin? Where is California?
                        SIXTH REIVEW.FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE WAR OF
                            1812 TO THE CLOSE OF THE MEXICAN WAR. Chapters XL to
                            XLVII.
                        
                            
                                Events preceding the second war with England.(XL.)
                                
                                    
                                        Impressment of sailors.
                                    
                                    
                                        Decrees against our trade.
                                    
                                    
                                        The embargo of 1807.
                                    
                                    
                                        The election of Madison.
                                    
                                    
                                        War with Tecumseh.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Beginning of the war.(XL and XLI.)
                                
                                    
                                        Declaration of war.
                                    
                                    
                                        Fall of Mackinaw and Detroit.
                                    
                                    
                                        General failure of American armies.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The successes of the navy.(XLI.)
                                
                                    
                                        Naval victories at sea.
                                    
                                    
                                        Naval victories on the lakes.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                War in the Northwest.(XLII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Harrison put in command.
                                    
                                    
                                        Defeat on river Raisin.
                                    
                                    
                                        Fort Meigs and Fort Stephenson.
                                    
                                    
                                        Battle of the Thames.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Campaigns at the North and East.(XLII.)
                            
                            
                                Failure of attempts to invade Canada.
                            
                            
                                English invasion by Lake Champlain.
                            
                            
                                Battle of Bladensburg: burning of Washington.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Jackson's campaign at the South.(XLII.)
                        
                            
                                War with the Creeks.
                            
                            
                                Jackson invades Florida.
                            
                            
                                Battle of New Orleans.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The peace.(XLII.)
                        
                            
                                First ten States admitted.(XLIII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Five States admitted before the War of
                                        1812.
                                    
                                    
                                        Five States admitted between the war and the
                                            Missouri Compromise.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The Missouri Compromise.(XLIII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Abolition of the slave-trade, 1808.
                                    
                                    
                                        Gradual abolition of slavery at the
                                        North.
                                    
                                    
                                        Missouri raises a new question.
                                    
                                    
                                        Admission of Missouri, 1821.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                The increase of population to 1820.(XLIII.)
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Presidency of Monroe.(XLIV.)
                                
                                    
                                        Decline of parties.
                                    
                                    
                                        Purchase of Florida.
                                    
                                    
                                        The Monroe doctrine.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Character and administration of John Quincy
                                    Adams.(XLIV.)
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Jackson's presidency.(XLIV.)
                                
                                    
                                        Jackson's election and character.
                                    
                                    
                                        Traits of his administration.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                New parties formed. (XLIV.)
                            
                            
                                Differences between the Whigs and Democrats.
                            
                            
                                Their leaders.
                                
                                    
                                        Presidency of Martin Van Buren.(XLIV.)
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                New modes of travel.(XLV.)
                                
                                    
                                        Swift ships.
                                    
                                    
                                        Steamboats.
                                    
                                    
                                        Canals.
                                    
                                    
                                        The National Road.
                                    
                                    
                                        Railroads.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The telegraph.(XLV.)
                                
                                    
                                        Morse's invention.
                                    
                                    
                                        Effect of the railroad and telegraph on
                                        life.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Struggles of the Whigs and Democrats.(XLVI.)
                                
                                    
                                        Political effects of the hard times.
                                    
                                    
                                        Election and death of Harrison.
                                    
                                    
                                        Tyler's presidency.
                                    
                                    
                                        Polk's election.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Annexation of Texas. (XLIV.)
                                
                                    
                                        Its history.
                                    
                                    
                                        Admitted-to the Union.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Mexican War. (XLVI and XLVII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Causes of the war.
                                    
                                    
                                        Taylor's campaign.
                                    
                                    
                                        Conquest of the northern provinces.
                                    
                                    
                                        Scott's campaign.
                                    
                                    
                                        The peace.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Traits of the war. (XLVI and XLVII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Mexicans and their arms.
                                    
                                    
                                        Character of American troops.
                                    
                                    
                                        Opposition to the war.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                New territory and new States. (XLVII.)
                                
                                    
                                        The territory taken from Mexico.
                                    
                                    
                                        The Oregon Territory.
                                    
                                    
                                        New States.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER XLVIII.
                The Question of Slavery in Politics.
                THE annexation of Texas opened a new
                    chapter in our history. It brought on the Mexican War. That brought a large
                    addition to our territory. It was necessary to settle the question of slavery in
                    the annexed territory, and this opened the slavery question anew. Both of the
                    old parties were after a while split asunder by the debate, and the question of
                    slavery or no slavery in the Territories became the leading issue in our
                    politics. In sixteen years from the annexation of Texas, this chain of causes
                    had plunged the country into the most tremendous civil war in the history of the
                    world. In just twenty years the war had ended in the entire abolition of slavery
                    in the United States. Thus, the annexation of Texas brought about unforeseen
                    results, and changed the history of the continent.
                
                    The annexation of Texas sets in motion a chain of events that end
                        in the civil war.
                
                
                    Anti-slavery agitation opposed.
                
                After the Missouri Compromise in 1820 (page 260), it had been an
                    accepted maxim in our politics that the slavery discussion should not be
                    reopened. The antislavery men who persisted in agitating the question were
                    thought unpatriotic. They were severely persecuted even by Northern people, who
                    feared that their agitation of the subject might destroy the Union of the
                    States.
                
                    The Wilmot Proviso.
                
                But, when the arrangement made by the Missouri Compromise was once
                    disturbed by annexing Texas and other Mexican territory, the political struggle
                    between the free and slave States began anew. In 1846, during the Mexican War, a
                    bill was introduced in Congress 
                    looking to a peace with Mexico, to be made by a purchase of territory. Mr.
                    Wilmot, of Pennsylvania, moved to add a proviso that slavery should never exist
                    in the territory thus acquired. This was known as "the Wilmot Proviso." The
                    proviso was finally rejected, but it opened the question of freedom or slavery
                    in the new territory before the Mexican War was ended.
                
                    ZACHARY TAYLOR.
                
                The first effect of the excitement was to render certain the defeat
                    of the Democratic party in the election of 1848. A large number of Democrats and
                    a smaller number of Whigs seceded from the old parties and formed the Free-Soil
                    party, which desired to shut slavery out of the Territories. The Democrats
                    nominated General Cass; the Whigs nominated General Zachary Taylor, the hero of
                    Buena Vista, for President. The Free-Soilers nominated ex-President Martin Van
                    Buren. Taylor was elected. After serving for a year and four months, President
                    Taylor died, and was succeeded by Millard Fillmore, the Vice-President.
                
                    Election and death of President Taylor. Fillmore succeeds to the
                        presidency.
                
                
                    ZACHARY TAYLOR. General Taylor was the twelfth President of the
                        United States, and the these first twelve Presidents seven were born in
                        Virginia, which got the name of "the Mother of Presidents" from the fact.
                        Zachary Taylor was born in Virginia in 1784, but he was carried to Kentucky
                        in his infancy. He got a commission in the army when he was twenty-four
                        years old. He gained his first distinction by his gallant defense of Fort
                        Harrison in the war against Tecumseh's Indians. (Chapter XL.) In a war waged
                        against the Seminole Indians in Florida he defeated the savages in a severe
                        battle at Okeechobee. His fame rests on his achievements in the Mexican War,
                        which we have related in Chapter XLVI.
                
                
                    Discovery of gold in California.
                
                But while the country was excited over the presidential election, an
                    event took place in the newly annexed  Territory of California that gave new violence to the slavery debate.
                    Particles of gold were discovered in the Sacramento River in California in 1848.
                    The California mines proved to be the richest in the world. A great rush of
                    people to the new Territory set in. Ships loaded with passengers sailed around
                    Cape Horn, and trains of ox-carts went across the plains, then occupied only by
                    Indians. In 1849 the people of California set up a State government without
                    authority from Congress, and asked to be immediately admitted to the Union. As
                    part of the new State was south of the Missouri Compromise line, and as its
                    Constitution forbade slavery, the slave States were opposed to this addition to
                    the number of free States.
                
                    
                        Millard Fillmore, born in New York, 1800. He
                        secured his education with difficulty, and rose to prominence in his
                        profession. In his own State he secured the passage of a law abolishing
                        imprisonment for debt. Died 1874.
                
                
                    Fugitive slaves and the slave-trade in the District of
                    Columbia.
                
                Meantime the growing anti-slavery sentiment at the North made it
                    harder to reclaim runaway slaves, who escaped in large number to the free
                    States. The Southern States complained of this as a violation of the
                    Constitution, which provided that all such fugitives should be sent back. The
                    Northern States complained that the public traffic in slaves in the city of
                    Washington was highly improper in the capital of a free country.
                The veteran statesman Henry Clay had always been a skillful
                    compromiser of difficulties. He now arranged and carried, with the help of
                        
                        MILLARD FILLMORE.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Compromise of 1850.
                     Webster and others, the measures which have since been known as "The
                    Compromise of 1850." By this compromise slavery was to be continued in the
                    District of Columbia, buy the buying and selling of slaves there was to be
                    abolished. At the same time a new and severe law was made for the return of
                    fugitive slaves, which was no longer left to the States, but intrusted to United
                    States officers. California was admitted as a free State, and New Mexico
                    organized as a Territory without slavery. The leading statesmen of the country
                    imagined that these measures, which gave something to each side, would forever
                    put to rest this dangerous question.
                
                    FRANKLIN PIERCE.
                
                
                    Election of Franklin Pierce.
                
                There was indeed a lull in the excitement. The little Free-Soil
                    party, which had helped to defeat the Democrats in 1848, cast fewer votes in
                    1852 for its candidate, John P. Hale, than it had cast for Van Buren in 1848.
                    The Whigs nominated General Winfield Scott, the conqueror of the city of Mexico,
                    but divisions on the slavery question had broken the power of that party, and
                    Franklin Pierce, of New Hampshire, the Democratic candidate, was elected by a
                    large majority.
                
                    
                        Franklin Pierce, fourteenth President, born
                        in New Hampshire, 1804. He was a lawyer, a member of the House of
                        Representatives, and a United Sates senator. He served in the Mexican War as
                        brigadier-general under Scott. He was a man of correct life, but of mediocre
                        ability. Died 1869.
                
                
                    Opposition to the fugitive-slave law.
                
                The Compromise of 1850 did not prove to be, what its promoters called
                    it, "a finality"; that is, an end of the debate. The fugitive-slave law
                    exasperated the Northern  people.
                    Every negro claimed under it excited the sympathy of the people and awakened
                    opposition.
                
                    Effect of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
                
                The anti-slavery sentiment at the North was quickened and diffused at
                    this time by the publication of the novel entitled "Uncle Toms Cabin." It was
                    calculated to excite sympathy for slaves, and it at once reached a circulation
                    that has hardly an equal in the history of literature.
                
                    Dissatisfaction at the South.
                
                The South was equally dissatisfied. The violent censures of
                    anti-slavery speakers and writers excited bitter feelings. It soon became
                    evident also that about all of the territory remaining to be admitted into the
                    Union would, in the nature of things, come in as free States. It was seen that
                    this would put the slave States in the minority, and destroy what was called
                    "the balance of power" between the two sections.
                
                    Efforts to secure new territory at the South. The filibuster.
                
                Attempts were therefore made to purchase the Island of Cuba, in order
                    to make new States form it. But Spain refused to sell Cuba. The desire of our
                    people for new territory had been greatly inflamed by their recent acquisitions,
                    and threats were made to seize Cuba by force. Expeditions were secretly fitted
                    out in the United States to promote insurrections in the island, but they came
                    to nothing. Several attempts were made by "filibusters" to seize territory from
                    the weal states in Central America. These were continued until 1860, when the
                    chief filibuster, William Walker, was captured and executed by Central American
                    authorities.
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What war immediately followed the annexation of Texas? How did the
                    Mexican War lead to the reopening of the controversy about slavery? How did this
                    bring about at last a great change in the history of America? How did the people
                    of this country feel about the slavery  question after the adoption of the Missouri Compromise in 1820? How were the
                    anti-slavery men regarded? Why was the discussion of the subject thought to be
                    unpatriotic? What disturbed the arrangement made by the Missouri Compromise?
                    What was "the Wilmot Proviso"? Was it introduced before or after the close of
                    the Mexican War? Was it adopted or rejected? What effect did it have? How was
                    the Free-Soil party formed? What did the Free-Soilers wish to do? Who was
                    nominated by the Democrats in 1848? Who by the Whigs? Who by the Free-Soilers?
                    What was the result? What had brought General Taylor into fame? How long was he
                    President? Who succeeded him? What happened in California during the
                    presidential canvass of 1848? What followed this discovery? How did emigrants
                    get to California in that day? What did the people do for government? Why were
                    the people of the Southern States opposed to the admission of California as a
                    free State? What complaint did the Southern people make against the Northern
                    States? What did the Constitution provide in this regard? What did the Northern
                    people complain of? Who arranged the Compromise of 1850? What provisions were
                    made by this compromise in regard to slavery in the District of Columbia? What
                    was done about the sale of slaves there? What was done about fugitive slaves?
                    What did the leading statesmen of the country imagine in regard to these
                    measures? What was the first effect of the compromise? What three candidates ran
                    for President in 1852? For what was Scott celebrated? Mention some of his
                    battles (see preceding chapter). Which candidate was elected? Which of the
                    compromise measures of 1850 excited ill feeling at the North? Why? What book
                    published at his time increased the anti-slavery feeling? What is said of the
                    popularity of this book? Why was the South dissatisfied? What attempt to
                    purchase new territory was made? With what success? What is said of
                    filibustering expeditions? What was the fate of William Walker?
                
                    Study by topics
                
                
                    
                        I. From the annexation to the civil war.
                        
                            
                                1. Admission of Texas led to
                            
                            
                                2. Mexican War led to
                            
                            
                                3. Acquisition of new territory led to
                            
                            
                                4. New slavery agitation led to
                            
                            
                                5. Civil war.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. The slavery agitation.
                        
                            
                                1. The Wilmot Proviso.
                            
                            
                                2. The admission of California.
                            
                            
                                3. The Compromise of 1850.
                            
                            
                                4. Return of fugitive slaves.
                            
                            
                            
                                5. Effect of "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
                            
                            
                                6. Attempts to restore the balance of power.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            a. By the purchase of Cuba.
                    
                    
                        
                            b. By filibustering expeditions.
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                In what direction is the Island of Cuba the United States? Which one
                    of our States lies nearest to Cuba? What country lies between the United States
                    and Central America?
            
            
                CHAPTER XLIX.
                Break-up of Old Parties. Approach of the Civil
                    War.
                
                    Decay of the Whig party
                
                THE Whig party was passing into
                    decrepitude. The measures it had advocatedthe United States Bank, the tariff,
                    and internal improvementswere no longer of the highest importance in the eyes of
                    the people.
                
                    The American, or Know-Nothing, party.
                
                The Whigs had been badly beaten in 1852. Those opposed to the
                    Democratic party felt obliged to take new ground. A party was founded in 1853,
                    which proposed to keep foreigners out of office and to make them wait a longer
                    term before becoming citizens. This new party was the "American party." Its
                    members were organized in secret lodges, and it carried many elections by
                    surprise. To all questions about its doings the members of this order answered,
                    "I don't know." From this arose the name "Know-Nothing," which was commonly
                    applied to the party. It spread rapidly for two or three years, but died as
                    quickly as it had come into life, for the slavery question took a new form,
                    which left no room for nay other debate.
                
                    STEPHEN A. DOUGLAS.
                
                
                    The Kansas-Nebraska Bill.
                
                This new form was brought about by the bill organizing the
                    Territories of Nebraska and Kansas, introduced in 1854 by Senator Douglas, of
                    Illinois. This bill repealed the Missouri Compromise, which had been adopted  in 1820. By that compromise slavery
                    had been forbidden in all new territory north of latitude thirty-six degrees and
                    a half. Kansas and Nebraska were on the north side of this line. The "Nebraska
                    Bill," as it was called, repealed this restriction, and left it for the settlers
                    in the new territory to decide the question of slavery for themselves. This was
                    called "Squatter Sovereignty" in the discussions of the time.
                
                    Formation of the Free-Soil and then of the Republican party.
                
                The excitement over the repeal of the Missouri Compromise exceeded
                    any ever before known in this country. Many people in the North regarded it as
                    an act of bad faith. People in the South claimed that they had an equal right
                    with free-state people to take their property of every kind to the new
                    Territories. Both sides became exceedingly violent. As President Pierce favored
                    the Nebraska Bill, those Whigs who took the same side generally went over to the
                    Democratic party, while those opposed to the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
                    whether Whigs or Democrats, united, and, with the old Free-Soil party, formed an
                    "Anti-Nebraska party." This presently took the name "Republican," but it is not
                    to be confounded with the old Republican party of the days of Jefferson.
                
                    Violent collisions in Kansas.
                
                Meantime the great struggle between the two sections had been
                    transferred to the new Territory of Kansas. This lay directly west of Missouri,
                    and a strong effort was made to secure it, both by the North and the South.
                    Emigrants poured in from both sides of the line between the free and the slave
                    Sates. Societies were formed a the North to promote emigration, and in Missouri
                    to keep emigrants from the free States away. Many free-state men were stopped
                         and turned back on the Missouri
                    River. The free-state people and the slave-state people now came into collision
                    on the Kansas prairies. Men from Missouri assisted the Southern party. Rival
                    government were formed. Kansas soon became the scene of a violent struggle.
                    Midnight assassinations and mobs were common, and something like open war broke
                    out from time to time. The men from the Northern States soon had a majority, and
                    asked admission to the Union. The bloody feud in Kansas by this time produced
                    the greatest excitement in Congress and convulsed the whole country.
                
                    Buchanan elected President, 1856.
                
                
                    
                        James Buchanan, fifteenth President, born in
                        Pennsylvania, 1791. He was a successful lawyer, a member of Congress, United
                        States minister to Russia, member of the Senate, and Secretary of State in
                        the Cabinet of President Polk. He was minister to England during the
                        administration of Pierce. In 1854 he was one of the signers of a document
                        known as the "Ostend Manifesto," by which three foreign ambassadors of the
                        United States assembled at Ostend, in Belgium, advised their government to
                        seize the Island of Cuba by force, if it could not be purchases from Spain.
                        Died 1868.
                
                While the people were in this state of passionate excitement about
                    the struggle in Kansas, the presidential canvass of 1856 came on. The Democrats
                    nominated James Buchanan, of Pennsylvania; the new Republican party nominated
                    John C. Fremont, who had become known as a daring explorer in the Western
                    plains, and who had taken part in the conquest of California. The American, or
                    Know-nothing, party nominated ex-President Millard Fillmore. Buchanan, the
                    Democratic candidate, was elected. Fillmore got but eight electoral votes,
                    Fremont one hundred and fourteen, and Buchanan one hundred and seventy-four. The
                    election showed that the people were interested in nothing but the settlement of
                    the slavery question. No presidential elec  tion had ever before turned wholly or chiefly on this
                    question.
                
                    The Dred Scott decision.
                
                The Supreme Court of the United States now attempted to settle the
                    question of slavery in the Territories, and thus take it out of politics. In the
                    spring of 1857, in the case of a negro named Dred Scott, who sued for his
                    freedom on the ground that his master had taken him to a free State, the Supreme
                    Court decided that the African whose ancestors had been slaves had no rights
                    under the Constitution, and that Congress had no power to forbid slavery in the
                    Territories. So, far from settling the question, this decision proved to be oil
                    on the fire. The North now feared that slavery would be made national by a
                    decision of the Supreme Court.
                
                    JAMES BUCHANAN.
                
                
                    John Brown's raid, 1859.
                
                In 1859 John Brown, who had borne a conspicuous part as a free-state
                    man in the murderous feuds of the Kansas struggle, seized the United States
                    armory at Harper's Ferry, in the mountains of Virginia, and undertook to
                    liberate the slaves. As he had but eighteen men under his command, he was soon
                    overcome. He was tried and executed, but this raid alarmed the South more than
                    the Dred Scott decision had the North. People at the South began to fear that
                    the Northern people were trying to arm the slaves for the murder of their
                    masters.
                
                    Lincoln elected President, 1860.
                
                The excitement over the subject of slavery had already divided into
                    two parts nearly all the great 
                    religious denominations, and had destroyed the Whig party. In 1860 it divided
                    the Democratic party. The majority in the convention of the party nominated
                    Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois, the author of the Kansas-Nebraska Bill. The
                    Democrats who adhered most strongly to the South put forward John C.
                    Breckinridge, of Kentucky. The Republicans nominated Union party, as it was
                    called, which desired to make peace between the angry sections, nominated John
                    Bell, of Tennessee. Lincoln was elected. We have now reached the point where the
                    angry debate between the North and the South was at last about to break into a
                    long and terrible war.
                
                    Increase in the number of free States. Minnesota admitted, 1858;
                        Oregon, 1959; and Kansas, 1861.
                
                One element in the political jealousies of this excited time was the
                    increase of free States. Minnesota was admitted in 1858, Oregon in 1859, and
                    Kansas soon after the election of Lincoln, in 1861. These were all free States.
                    There was now no territory left at the South from which new slave States could
                    be made.
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What great was badly beaten in 1852? What measures did the Whigs
                    advocate? What new party was founded to take its place in 1853? What did the
                    American party propose to do regarding those who came from foreign countries?
                    How were its members organized? Why were they called Know-nothings? Did the
                    party last long? What brought up the slavery question in a new form? By whom was
                    the "Nebraska Bill" introduced? What did this bill repeal? What can you tell
                    about the Missouri Compromise? Why called Missouri Compromise? (See pages 260,
                    261.) How long had this compromise lasted in 1854? (Subtract 1821 from 1854.) On
                    which side of the Missouri Compromise lien were Kansas and Nebraskathat was
                    slavery to be settled in these Territories according to the Nebraska Bill? What
                    effect did this act have? How did the people in the North regard it?  What view did the people of the
                    South take of it? What ground did President Pierce take? What became of the
                    Whigs who were divided by this question? What name was given at first to those
                    who opposed the Nebraska Bill? What name was finally given to this party? Had
                    there been any other party called Republican? What took place in Kansas? How was
                    Kansas situated with regard to Missouri? What measures were taken at the North?
                    What was done to check emigration from the free States? What form did the
                    struggle in Kansas take? What effect did the struggle have on Congress and the
                    country?
                Who was the candidate of the Democratic party in 1856? Who was
                    nominated by the new Republican party? Who was the candidate of the Know-nothing
                    party? Which was elected? What did the election show? How did the Supreme Court
                    try to settle the question? In what case did they render their decision? What
                    did they decide about slavery in the Territories? What effect did their plan for
                    settling the dispute have? Who was John Brown? What armory did he seize? Where
                    is Harper's Ferry? How many men did he have? What effect did his raid have upon
                    the South? What effect had the slavery question had on most of the religious
                    denominations? What effect had it had on the Whig party? What took place in the
                    Democratic party in 1860? Who was nominated by the majority of that party? Who
                    buy those that adhered most strongly to the South? Whom did the Republicans
                    nominate? There was a fourth party: what was it called? Whom did the
                    Constitutional Union party nominate? Who was elected? What State was admitted in
                    1858? What in the next year? When was Kansas admitted? Why was it that no more
                    slave States were formed?
                Some of these topics are treated in the preceding chapter, and are
                    here reviewed for the sake of completeness.
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Rise and fall of new parties after the Mexican War.
                        
                            
                                1. The Free-Soil party, nicknamed "Barn-burners."
                            
                            
                                2. Decay of the Whig party.
                            
                            
                                3. The American party, called also
                                "Know-nothings."
                            
                            
                                4. The Republican party, at first
                                "Anti-Nebraska."
                            
                            
                                5. The Constitutional party in 1860.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. The question of slavery in the Territories.
                        
                            
                                1. The Wilmot Proviso.
                            
                            
                                2. The Compromise of 1850 and the admission of
                                    California.
                            
                            
                                3. Repeal of the Missouri Compromise.
                            
                            
                                4. The struggle in Kansas.
                            
                            
                                5. The Dred Scott decision.
                            
                            
                                6. The John Brown raid.
                            
                            
                                7. The election of Lincoln.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    Composition.
                
                It would be a good exercise for a pupil to write a paper on "The
                    Causes of the Civil War." Let him use his own words and express his own
                    opinions, prejudices, and sympathies, whatever they may be.
                
                    Geography.
                
                What large river rises in Minnesota? On what large lake does a part
                    of Minnesota lie? What States lie to the south and east of it? How is Oregon
                    situated with reference to California? What ocean on its western border? What
                    State on the eastern border of Kansas?
            
            
                CHAPTER L.
                How the Great Civil War began.
                
                    The movement of secession.
                
                THE excitement at the South had
                    reached a pitch that rendered an effort to break up the Union inevitable. From
                    the moment that Lincoln's election was known, active preparations were made in
                    what were called the "cotton States" South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama,
                    Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texasto dissolve the Union of States.
                
                    Difference of opinion about State sovereignty.
                
                From the beginning of the government there were two opinions in
                    regard to the power of a State under the Constitution. The Federalists thought
                    that nearly all the powers of government were vested in the United States
                    authorities, but the Jefferson Republicans held that a State retained a
                    considerable share of independence. At a later period the chief advocate for the
                    sovereignty of the State had been John C. Calhoun, of South Carolina (page 268),
                    who though a State could declare an act of Congress nullthat is, not valid
                    within its bounds. In 1832 the State of South Carolina declared the tariff law
                    null, and forbade its citizens to pay the duties. This was called nullification;
                    but President Jackson, who did not believe in the doctrine, threatened the
                    nullifiers with the army and navy of the United States.
                
                
                    The seven "cotton States" pass ordinances of secession, 1861.
                
                The States-rights doctrineas the belief in the right of a State to
                    act independently was called had found a good many adherents in the South, and
                    in the present excitement the extreme Southern States claimed that, by
                    exercising the right of the individual State, they might lawfully secede from
                    the Union. South Carolina first passed an ordinance of secession on December 20,
                    1860. By the 1st of February each of the seven "cotton States" had declared
                    itself separated form the Union and independent.
                
                    The Peace Convention meets in vain.
                
                Meantime the recollection of the success of the Missouri Compromise
                    in 1820 (page 260), and of the Compromise of 1850-(page 294), led some members
                    of Congress to try to settle the troubles once more by compromise. Many plans
                    for changes in the Constitution and laws were proposed in Congress, but all
                    without avail. A "Peace Convention," suggested by Virginia, assembled in
                    Washington on the 4th of February, 1861. There were delegates from all but the
                    seceded States. John Tyler, ex-President of the United States, was president of
                    this convention. But the plan of compromise suggested by the Peace Convention
                    failed, like all others. The time for compromises had gone by, and it was beyond
                    the ingenuity of man to prevent a collision between the two sections which had
                    opposed each other in politics, and were now about to try their strength and
                    endurance in the deadly struggles of the battle-field.
                
                    The period of confusion.
                
                It was a time of great trouble and division. Many people at the North
                    sympathized with the secession movement; many people at the South were in favor
                    of maintaining the Union. Part of the Cabinet of President Buchanan desired to
                    help the seceding States, to  which
                    they belonged; the other Secretaries wished him to use force in putting down the
                    rebellion against his authority. The President, for his part, did not believe
                    that the States had a right to go out of the Union, but he also did not believe
                    that he had any authority to compel them to stay in. So everything was in
                    confusion, debate, and perplexity in that awful winter, during which a storm was
                    gathering, the force and extent of which nobody could foresee.
                
                    Anderson in Fort Sumter.
                
                All eyes were turned to Charleston harbor, where thousands of excited
                    Southerners faced a little garrison under command of Major Robert Anderson. On
                    the evening of the day after Christmas, Anderson suddenly moved his garrison in
                    the dark from the weak Fort Moultrie into the stronger Fort Sumter. A ship sent
                    with supplies and re-enforcements was fired on by the South Carolina batteries
                    and turned back.
                
                    Confederate government formed.
                
                
                    
                        Jefferson Davis was born in Kentucky, June 3,
                        1808. He graduated at West Point in 1828. He left the army in 1835, and
                        became a member of Congress ten years later. In the Mexican War he was
                        colonel of a Mississippi regiment, and was distinguished for courage and
                        coolness in action. He served several years as United states Senator from
                        Mississippi, and was Secretary of War in President Pierce's Cabinet. He
                        again entered the Senate in 1857, from which he resigned when Mississippi
                        seceded in 1861. He was President of the Confederate States during the
                        entire war.
                
                On the 4th of February, the day that the Peace Convention met in
                    Washington, there assembled in Montgomery, Ala., a convention of delegates from
                    the seceded States. This convention proceeded to form a new government, under
                    the title of "The Confederate States of America." Jefferson Davis, of
                    Mississippi, was elected President.
                
                    The bombardment of Fort Sumter.
                
                On the 4th of March Abraham Lincoln was inaugurated President of the
                    United States. Measures were soon taken to re-enforce and supply the garrison of
                    Fort Sumter. But the ships 
                    
                        CONFEDERATE UNIFORMS.
                        NORTH CAROLINA MILITIA.
                        REG. INFANTRY PRIVATE.
                        WASHIGTON ARTILLERY.
                        MONTGOMERY TRUE BLUE.
                        FIELD OFFIVER OF INFANTRY.
                        GEN. LEE'S UNIFORM.
                        REGCAVALRY PRIVATE
                        LOUISIANA ZOUAVE.
                        REG. ARTILLERY PRIVATE.
                    
                     sent were detained outside the bar
                    by a storm, and, as soon as their coming was known, all the Confederate
                    batteries, after a while, replied. For thirty-six hours the bombardment
                    continued, setting fire to the wood-work of the fort and pounding its walls to
                    pieces. At the end of this time Major Anderson, whose provisions were nearly
                    exhausted, agreed to evacuate the fort.
                Curiously enough, nobody was killed on either side in this
                    bombardment. But the bombardment of Sumter changed the whole situation. Doubt
                    was at an end on both sides. Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas,
                    forced now to take one side or the other, soon joined the Confederacy. On the
                    other hand, the Sunday morning on which Major Anderson marched out of fort
                    Sumter saw the Northern States also almost of one mind. Men were wild with
                    excitement, and political parties were forgotten. It was not for congress or the
                    President to decide on peace or warthe war burst uncontrollably from the pent-up
                    feelings of the people.
                
                    JEFFERSON DAVIS.
                
                
                    CONFEDERATE FLAG OF 1861.
                
                
                    The war begun.
                
                In response to a call from the President, nearly a hundred thousand
                    men enlisted in the Northern States in three days. Trains loaded with volunteers
                    began to move toward Washington. Money and ships without stint were offered to
                    the government by the rich. The Southern peo 
                    
                        The rush to arms.
                     ple were equally enthusiastic and unanimous. Thousands of the young men
                    of the South eagerly poured into Virginia. The great civil war had burst upon
                    the country in all its fury.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                How many States were called "cotton States"? What were they? What
                    took place in the cotton States when Lincoln's election became known? What
                    difference of opinion had there been from the beginning of the government about
                    the power of a State? What did the Federalists hold? What was the opinion of the
                    Republican party of Jefferson's time? Who had been the chief advocate for State
                    sovereignty in later times? What can you tell about the nullification movement
                    in South Carolina? How did President Jackson regard the doctrine of
                    nullification? In what part of the country had the Sates-rights doctrine found
                    adherents? How did the Southern States propose to leave the Union? What State
                    seceded first? How many States had seceded by February 1st? What two celebrated
                    compromises were remembered at this time? What did this recollection lead to?
                    What plans were formed in Congress? With what result? What State suggested the
                    "Peace Convention"? Where did it meet? Who was its president? What was the
                    result of this plan of compromise suggested by the Peace Convention? Was there
                    any way to avoid war?
                Were the people at the North unanimous at this time? Were the people
                    of the South all agreed? What division of opinion was there  in the President's Cabinet? What opinions did
                    President Buchanan hold? To what fort in the South were all eyes turned? Who
                    commanded this fort? What did Anderson do on the evening of the day after
                    Christmas? What happened to the ship sent with supplies?
                What convention assembled at the South in February? What did this
                    convention proceed to form? What was this new government called? Who was chosen
                    President of the Confederate States? When Lincoln was inaugurated, what was done
                    about Fort Sumter? What happened to the ships sent to relieve it? What took
                    place when the ships were discovered? How long did the bombardment last? What
                    effect did it have? What did Major Anderson do at the end of this time? What
                    effect did the bombardment of Sumter have on the Southern States? What new
                    States joined the Confederacy? What effect did it have at the North? What is
                    said of enlistments at the North? Of money and ships given to the government?
                    What is said of the excitement at the South? Into what State did thousands of
                    Southern young men hasten?
                
                    
                        I. Movements at the South.
                        
                            
                                1. Secession.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a.The "States-rights
                                            doctrine."
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b.Seven States
                                        secede.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                2. The "Confederate States" formed.
                            
                            
                                3. The war begun.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a.The capture of Fort
                                            Sumter
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Four more States join
                                            the Confederacy.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. Troops pushed into
                                            Virginia.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Movements at Washington and in the North.
                        
                            
                                1. Efforts at compromise.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Plans proposed in
                                            Congress.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. The Peace
                                        Convention
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                2. The inauguration of Lincoln.
                            
                            
                                3. The war begun.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Effort to relieve
                                            Sumter.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Effect of the attack
                                            of Sumter.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                    
                        1. The situation of the seven "cotton States": How many are
                            on the Gulf of Mexico? How many touch the Atlantic Ocean? Which lies on
                            both the gulf and the ocean? Which of the cotton States border on the
                            Mississippi River? Which one is next to Mexico?
                    
                    
                        2. The situation of the four additional States which seceded
                            after the war began, viz., Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and
                            Arkansas: How many and which lie on the Atlantic? How many are on the
                            Mississippi River?
                    
                    
                        3. The location of Fort Sumter: In what harbor? In what
                            States is Charleston?
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER LI.
                Confederate Victory at Bull Run.The First
                    Western Campaign.
                
                    The question of Union or secession.
                
                WEare to remember that, through the
                    war was caused by slavery, it was not at first about slavery, but about
                    secession. "Our States are sovereign, and have a right to secede when they think
                    they have reason," was the Southern view of the matter. "You are a part of the
                    Union, which forms but one nation, and to break up the Union is rebellion," was
                    the Northern view. But the passions excited by the bitter debate over questions
                    relating to slavery lay at the bottom of the struggle. Neither side dreamed of
                    the long and bloody conflict that was to follow. Each expected to settle the
                    matter in two or three battles. But of them found out what stubborn work it was
                    to fight against Americans.
                
                    Advantages and disadvantages.
                
                The Southerners were naturally more military than the Northern
                    people; they were generally accustomed to the saddle and the use of fire-arms.
                    Many of the Northern men, especially those of the Eastern States, had to learn
                    to load and fire a gun after they went into the army. For a long war the North
                    had several advantages. Money, trade, and the mechanical facilities for
                    producing arms, ships, clothing, and other military necessities, belonged in a
                    superior degree to the North. The North had also the advantage of numbers; the
                    South the advantage of fighting in defense of its own ground.
                The divided sympathies of the people in the border States, and the
                    quick sending forward of volunteers 
                    
                        The prompt movement from the North secures the border
                        region.
                     from the North by many railroads, prevented Maryland, Kentucky, and
                    Missouri from seceding. In the western part of Virginia, where the slaves were
                    few, the Union sentiment was strong, and this region, after a while, separated
                    itself from Virginia and formed a new State, which took the name of West
                    Virginia. The failure to secure the border region was a serious loss to the
                    Confederacy, for this was a land of Indian corn, most valuable for the feeding
                    of armies. The South thus lost also the Ohio and Potomac riversthe best line of
                    defense.
                
                    
                        The Struggle for Missouri.The battles in
                        Missouri and Arkansas proved a side campaign that had for its aim the
                        securing of this State, in which opinion was much divided for the Union or
                        the Confederacy. The Governor of Missouri took sides with the Confederacy.
                        In the hard-fought battle of Wilson's Creek, August 10, 1861, General Lyon,
                        of the United States army, was killed, and his army retreated after the
                        fight. The Confederate general Price attacked Lexington, Missouri, on the
                        18th of September following, and captured nearly three thousand Union
                        soldiers. In November following, General Pope, of the United states army, by
                        several skillful movements, intercepted and captured large bodies of
                        recruits on their way to join the Confederate army. A severe battle fought
                        at Pea Ridge, in northwestern Arkansas, on the 6th of March, 1862, finally
                        secured Missouri to the Union, by preventing the Confederate forces from
                        re-entering that State.
                
                
                    Opening move ments.
                
                The war opened with several small actions, such as the seizure of
                    ports and navy-yards by the Confederates, the attack on Union troops by a mob in
                    Baltimore, several skirmishes in different parts of the country, and battles in
                    the mountains of Virginia. The Confederates had moved their capital from
                    Montgomery, Ala., to Richmond, Va., and the first important battle-ground would
                    lie between the two capitals. So sure were the people of a short war, that most
                    of the Northern 
                        
                            Campaign in West Virginia. Several
                            battles, though of no great magnitude, were fought to secure control of
                            West Virginia. The Union armies here were commanded by General George B.
                            McClellan. A small battle at Philippi was won by the Union troops, and a
                            more considerable engagement at Rich Mountain (June 11, 1861), lasting
                            about an hour and a half, gave the possession of West Virginia to the
                            Federal government.
                    
                     volunteers had been called out for
                    only three months, and it was thought necessary to fight a battle before their
                    time should expire. The people and news-papers at the North were clamoring for a
                    forward movement.
                
                    IRVIN McDOWELL.
                
                
                    Confederates win the first battle.
                
                General McDowell moved toward Richmond, and on the 21st of July,
                    1861, the battle of Bull Run, or Manassas, was fought, chiefly by raw troops on
                    both sides. Generals Joseph E. Johnston and Beauregard commanded the
                    Confederates. The battle was a severe one and the losses were heavy, but the
                    Confederates were re-enforced at the right moment, and the Union army was at
                    length entirely routed, and fled back to Washington in confusion.
                
                    
                        Early Battles in Kentucky.The early struggle
                        in eastern Kentucky was a little war by itself. Besides minor skirmishes,
                        Colonel Garfield, afterward President, defeated the Confederate leader
                        Humphrey Marshall in the little battle of Prestonburg on the 17th of
                        January, 1862. Another sharp conflict took place at Mill Spring two days
                        later, in which General George H. Thomas was victorious over the Confederate
                        general Zollikoffer.
                
                
                    G. T. BEAUREGARD.
                
                
                    Grant takes Fort Henry and Fort Donelson.
                
                
                    ANDREW H. FOOTE.
                
                The first important movement after Bull Run was the campaign which
                    broke the Confederate line at the West, and gave the Mississippi River above
                    Vicksburg to the control of the Federal government. Ulysses S. Grant, who had
                    already begun to show good military abilities, moved against Fort Henry, on the
                    Tennessee River, in co-operation with the gunboat fleet under Commodore Foote.
                    Grant and Foote captured Fort Henry February 6, 1862. The Tennessee River here
                    runs near to the Cumberland River. On the Cumberland River. Only about twelve
                    miles from Fort Henry, was the Confederate Fort Donelson. After a 
                    
                        CHARGING AN EARTHWORK.
                    
                     stubborn battle, in which the Union
                    loss was twenty-three hundred men, this fort was also surrendered, and with it
                    fifteen thousand Confederate troops. This broke the center of the Confederate
                    line of defense in the West, and forced them to fall back from Nashville and
                    other points.
                
                    Fall of Island No. 10.
                
                General Pope, supported by gunboats, not moved against the
                    Confederates who blocked the Mississippi at New Madrid and Island No. 10. New
                    Madrid was evacuated, but, in order to capture Island No. 10, Pope, who was on
                    the west side of the river, must cross below the island and cut off it supplies.
                    As the batteries on the island blocked the river, he had to dig a canal across a
                    bend in the river in order to get transport-boats below the island, so as to
                    ferry across the Mississippi. It took nineteen days to cut this canal. Gun-boats
                    could not get through it, and the transports could not cross without their
                    protection. Two gunboats were run past the batteries of the island at night. Cut
                    off on all sides, the island was compelled to surrender, with nearly seven
                    thousand men.
                
                    JOHN POPE
                
                
                    Grant moves toward Corinth.
                
                The object of the Union troops in attacking Island No. 10 had been to
                    take a step toward getting possession of the Mississippi River, so as to get the
                    use of this great highway, and thus separate the Confederacy into two parts. For
                    the same purpose the forces under Grant, after taking Fort the same purpose the
                    forces under Grant, after taking Fort Donelson, pushed southward up the
                    Tennessee River, and a movement was planned to take Corinth, in the northern
                    part of Mississippi. Many railroads centered at this place. The Union army,
                    under General Grant, was gathered near Corinth, at Pitts-burg Landing, in
                    Tennessee, on the banks of the Tennessee  River. Grant had from thirty to forty thousand men, and had
                    no thought of a powerful enemy near at hand. The confederate general, Albert
                    Sidney Johnston, rapidly collected a strong army, and determined to crush the
                    force at the Landing before Grant could be re-enforced by the arrival of another
                    army under General Buell.
                
                    A. S. JOHNSTON.
                
                The battle of Shiloh, or Pittsburg Landing, began on Sunday morning,
                    April 6, 1862. Johnston undertook to attack in such a way as to surprise and
                    drive Grant's army back between the river and a creek. The loss on that dreadful
                    Sunday was great on both sides. The Confederates, with desperate energy, drove
                    Grant's men back until Pittsburg Landing was almost in their possession. But
                    their general, Albert Sidney Johnston, was killed. Buell's army began to arrive,
                    and the Union troops were re-formed in the night. The second day's fighting was
                    also extremely severe. The exhausted Confederates under Beauregard at length
                    retired from the field. This was the first great battle of the war.
                The Union army, when it had a little recovered from the terrible
                    shock and had been recruited, moved forward against Corinth, which, after a
                    siege, was evacuated by Beauregard on the 30th of May. The consequence of this
                    success was, that the whole Mississippi River, as far down as Vicksburg, came
                    into possession of the Federal authorities.
                
                    The great battle of Shiloh, or Pittsburg Landing.
                
                
                    D.C. BUELL.
                
                
                    Corinth evacuated by the Confederates.
                
                
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                
                What was the war caused by? What was the war about? How could the war
                    be caused by slavery, and not be about slavery? What was the Southern claim in
                    the matter of secession? What was the position of the North? Was a long war
                    expected on either side?
                Which were naturally the more military, the Southern or the Northern
                    people? Which knew the more in general about fire-arms? What advantages had the
                    North for a long war? Which had the advantage of numbers? What advantage had the
                    Southern troops?
                What prevented Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri from seceding? What
                    part of Virginia remained in the Union? How was this managed? What advantage did
                    the North get from holding the four border States? What good line of defense did
                    the South lose in losing the border?
                With what kind of actions did the war being? To what place did the
                    Confederates move their capital? Where would the first great battle-ground
                    naturally be? Why was it necessary to the Union army to fight a battle at once?
                    What movement did McDowell make? What battle was fought on the 21st of July,
                    1861? Who commanded the Confederate army at this battle? Which won the battle?
                    What was the first important movement after Bull Run? What fort did Grant attack
                    first? Who commanded the gunboat fleet that helped him? How far away from the
                    Cumberland is the Tennessee River at the Confederates on the Cumberland River?
                    What took place at Fort Donelson? What was the result to the Confederates of the
                    loss of this fort? Against what two places did General Pope begin operations?
                    What happened at New Madrid? What did Pope have to do to take Island No. 10? How
                    many days did it take? How did gunboats get past the island? How did Pope compel
                    the island to surrender? What object was in view in theattack on Island No. 10?
                    What place did Grant now propose to seize? Why was Corinth deemed important? At
                    what place was Grant's army gathered? How many men did he have? What did General
                    Albert Sidney Johnston resolve to do? Why did he wish to  defeat Grant at once? By what two names is the first
                    great battle of the war called? How did Albert Sidney Johnston under-take to
                    crush Grant's army? What was the result of the first day's battle? What happened
                    to General Johnston? What was the result of the second day's battle? What place
                    was taken by the Union troops after this? What was the result of the capture of
                    Corinth?
                
                    FIRST BATTLE OF BULL RUN.
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. The conditions of the war.
                        
                            
                                1. The war about secession.
                            
                            
                                2. Relation of slavery to the war.
                            
                            
                                3. Advantages of each side.
                            
                            
                                4. The border States.
                            
                            
                                5. First actions.
                            
                            
                                6. The two capitals.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Bull Run and its effects.
                    
                    
                        III. Campaign for opening the Mississippi River.
                        
                            
                                1. Fort Henry.
                            
                            
                                2. Fort Donelson.
                            
                            
                                3. Island No. 10.
                            
                            
                                4. Shiloh.
                            
                            
                                5. Corinth.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                    
                        I. Relation of Washington to Richmond: In what State is
                            Richmond? On what river? In what direction is Washington from Richmond?
                            On what river is Washington? Is Bull Run, or Manassas, battle-ground
                            nearer to Washington or to Richmond? In marching from Washington to Bull
                            Run, what course would an army take? In marching from Richmond to
                            Manassas, what direction would be taken?
                    
                    
                        2. Island No. 10: What State lies on the eastern side of the
                            Mississippi at Island No. 10? What State on the west? In what river is
                            this island situated? What is the largest river in the United States
                            (except Alaska)?
                    
                    
                        3. In what State is Pittsburg Landing? On what river? Is it
                            above or below Fort Henry on the ame river? In what State is Corinth?
                            What direction from Pittsburg Landing? In what direction is the city of
                            Memphis, Tenn., from Corinth?
                    
                
                
                    Books.
                
                On the war generally: "Battles and Leaders of the Civil War," and
                    Dodge's "Bird's-Eye View of the Civil War,"
            
            
                CHAPTER LII.
                The War at the East.From Bull Run to
                    Gettysburg.
                GENERAL SCOTT, who was commander-in-chief of the armies of the United States at
                    the beginning of the war, was old and infirm, and he soon retired. McClellan, by
                        
                        McClellan commander-in-chief.
                    
                     his well-planned battle at Rich
                    Mountain, in western Virginia, had shown capacity, and he was now called to
                    command the forces in front of Washington. He spent eight months in organizing
                    and disciplining has army.
                
                    Peninsular campaign begun. Battle of Williamsburg.
                
                Instead of moving directly against the Confederate forces lying in
                    front of him, McClellan thought best to take his army by water to Fortress
                    Monroe, and from there to go up between York River and James River toward
                    Richmond. The land between these two rivers forms a peninsula; this is therefore
                    known as the Peninsular campaign. From the beginning, the campaign was
                    unfortunate in many ways. Part of the troops which McClellan expected to receive
                    were detained for the defense of Washington. The Confederates forced him to
                    spend a month in the siege of Yorktown. Yorktown was evacuated on the 5th of
                    May. McClellan's troops pursued the retiring Confederates, and fought the battle
                    of Williamsburg that day. The Confederates retreated at night toward Richmond.
                
                    GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN.
                
                But the Confederate general, Thomas J. Jackson, who had go the
                    nickname of "Stonewall" Jackson in the first battle of Bull Run, and who was
                    operating in the Valley of Virginia, now made a series of rapid manoeuvres, by
                    which he defeated or confused several bodies of Union troops and frightened the
                    authorities at Washington, so that McDowell's troops at Fredericksburg were held
                    back from joining McClellan before Richmond. 
                        Battle of Fair Oaks.
                    
                     Meantime the Confederate army
                    defending Richmond, under General Joseph E. Johnston, fought the battle of Fair
                    Oaks, by attacking one wing of McClellan's army while it was divided into two
                    parts by the Chickahominy River, and won a partial success. Johnston having been
                    wounded in this battle, General Robert E. Lee succeeded him. Stonewall Jackson
                    now slipped away from the Valley of Virginia, and suddenly brought his army down
                    by rail to assist Lee in the struggle against McClellan.
                
                    "STONEWALL JACKSON."
                
                McClellan with drew his forces to the James River. About this time
                    the two armies were engages every day; these conflicts are known as the Seven
                    Days' battles. For a whole week the Confederates beat upon McClellans' army. Its
                    months of discipline and drill enabled it to fall back slowly before Lee's
                    furious onslaught.
                
                    The Seven Days' battles.
                
                But McClellan's first plan had failed. The President had lost
                    confidence in McClellan's ability to overmatch such generals as Lee and Jackson.
                    A new general must be found. Pope, whose energy and success at Island No. 10 had
                    given him reputation, was put in command of the army in front of Washington, and
                    the army on the James River was brought back by degrees to reinforce him.
                
                    Thomas Jonathan Jackson, called "Stonewall Jackson," was born in
                        Virginia, January 21, 1824. He graduated at West Point in 1846. In the
                        Mexican War he was twice brevetted for meritorious conduct. He resigned from
                        the army in 1852, and became a professor in the Virginia Military Institute.
                        He entered the Confederate service at the beginning of the war. During the
                        first battle of Bull Run he resisted a charge with so much steadfastness
                        that he gained the title of "Stonewall Jackson," by which name he will be
                        known in history. The promptness and rapidity of his marches, and the
                        obstinate courage he showed on the battle-field, made him and important
                        factor in the war. He was shot by mistake by his own men, May 2, 1863, and
                        died on the 10th.
                
                
                    Pope in command at Washington.
                
                
                But Pope proved not to be equal to the Confederate generals in his
                    front. Jackson made a great circuit around through thoroughfare Gap, and cut off
                    Pope's communications with Washington. The Federal army fought bravely on the
                    old Bull Run battle-field (August 29 and 30, 1862), and Pope showed his usual
                    energy, but his enemy had beaten him in skillful manuvres, and his army fell
                    back disheartened to neighborhood of Washington again, where it was a year
                    before.
                
                    Second battle of Bull Run, or Manassas.
                
                McClellan, who, in spite of the unfortunate outcome of his campaign,
                    had won the confidence of the men in the Eastern army, was now again put in
                    command of it. Lee followed up his advantages by crossing the Potomac. Meantime
                    he sent a force and captured Harper's Ferry, with eleven thousand Union
                    soldiers. On the 16th and 17th of September McClellan and Lee fought one of the
                    severest battles of the war at Antietam Creek, near Sharpsburg, in Maryland. On
                    the 18th Lee withdrew across the Potomac, and McClellan followed slowly, and
                    again made the Rappahannock his line.
                
                    Great battle at Antietam, in Maryland, 1862.
                
                But McClellan had lost the confidence of his superiors, and he was
                    now finally removed. General Burnside was next put in command of this unlucky
                    army. McClellan had been thought too cautious, but Burnside was rash. He crossed
                    the Rappahannock at Fredericksburg, and assailed the Confederate works on the
                    heights back of the town on December 13, 1862. His army was defeated with great
                    slaughter.
                
                    Burnside succeeds McClellan, and is defeated at
                    Fredericksburg.
                
                Burnside was relieved, and General Hooker was tried. In the spring of
                    1863 General Hooker fought what was called the Chancellorsville campaign, where,
                    like those who had gone before him, he was outmanuvred 
                        A. E. BURNSIDE.
                    
                    
                        Hooker succeeds Burnside. Defeated at Chancellorsville,
                        1863.
                    
                     by Lee's generalship and Jackson's
                    marching qualities. On May 6th Hooker recrossed the Rappahannock.
                
                    Meade and Lee fight a great battle at Gettysburg.
                
                Lee soon after crossed the Potomac, and pushed his veteran army into
                    Pennsylvania, striking for Harrisburg. Hooker was relieved from commanding the
                    army opposed to Lee, and General George G. Meade succeeded him. Near Gettysburg,
                    in Pennsylvania, the vanguards of the two great armies met on the 1st day of
                    July, 1863. The people of the North and those of the South were filled with fear
                    and anxiety as this battle approached. The courage of the troops on both sides
                    was simply marvelous. On the second day of the battle the Confederates carried
                    works at both ends of the Union line. The next day the Union army recovered the
                    lost ground on its right. The Confederates then made a tremendous assault an
                    broke through the center of the Federal army, but they were soon driven back
                    defeated. Lee's army rested a day and then retreated. Lee had lost about one
                    third of his men: Meade had lost a good deal more than a fourth of his. In all,
                    about forty-eight thousand had been killed, wounded, or captured in this awful
                    struggle between two veteran and resolute armies.
                
                    GEORGE G. MEADE.
                
                What was the chief trouble with the Federal armies? What is said of
                    Scott? Where had McClellan distinguished himself? What did McClellan do for the
                    Army of the Potomac? How long was it after he took command before he made any
                    forward movement?
                When he moved, what road to Richmond did he take? Between what two
                    rivers did he march? Why 
                    
                    
                        Questions for study.
                     is this called "The Peninsular Campaign"? What disappointments and
                    detentions did McClellan meet with? After Yorktown was evacuated, what battle
                    was fought? What name was commonly given to the Confederate general Jackson? In
                    what valley was he operating? What manuvres did he now make? What effect did
                    these have in Washington? What was the result with reference to re-enforcing
                    McClellan's army? How was McClellan's army attacked at the battle of Fair oaks?
                    By what river was the army divided? What did Stonewall Jackson do? To what river
                    was McClellan now withdrawing? What are the battles that took place at this time
                    called? What effect did the seven days' battles have on McClellan's army? What
                    had been the result of McClellan's plan? How did the President regard him? What
                    general was now brought from the West? In what operation had Pope shown energy
                    and skill? Of what army was he now given the command? What was done with
                    McClellan's army? How did Pope compare in ability with the Confederate generals
                    opposed to him? What did Stonewall Jackson do? Where did the armies fight in
                    August, 1862? What was the result? Who was again put in command of the army
                    after Pope's failure? What did Lee do? What place did he capture? Where was a
                    battle fought between McClellan and Lee? What kind of a battle was that of
                    Antietam, or Sharpsburg? What did General Lee do after two days' fighting? What
                    did McClellan do? Who was put in place of McClellan? What was Burnside's
                    character? What disastrous movement did Burnside make? Who succeeded Burnside?
                    What campaign did Hooker fight? With what result? What did Lee do after the
                    campaign of Chancellorsville? Who succeeded Hooker in command of the Union army?
                    Near what town did the two great armies meet on the 1st of July, 1863? In what
                    State? How did the people feel about this battle? How did the soldiers fight at
                    Gettysburg? What successes did the Confederates gain the first day? What took
                    place on the second day? What did Lee do after the battle? What proportion of
                    his troops did Lee lose? What proportion of his whole force did Meade lose? How
                    many were lost in both armies?
                
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. The Peninsula.
                        
                            
                                1. McClellan in command.
                            
                            
                                2. The forward movement.
                                
                                    
                                        a. Yorktown.
                                    
                                    
                                        b. Williamsburg.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                3. McClellan's reverses.
                                
                                    
                                        a. Jackson in the Valley.
                                    
                                    
                                        b. Battle of Fair Oaks.
                                    
                                    
                                        c. Jackson re-enforces Lee.
                                    
                                    
                                        d. Seven days' battles.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Pope's campaign.
                        
                            
                                1. Pope called to Washington.
                            
                            
                                2. Second battle of Manassas, or Bull Run.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Lee enters Maryland.
                        
                            
                                1. Lee takes Harper's Ferry.
                            
                            
                                2. Crosses the Potomac.
                            
                            
                                3. Fights with McClellan at Antietam.
                            
                            
                                4. Retreats to Virginia.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Burnside and Hooker.
                        
                            
                                1. Burnside at Fredericksburg.
                            
                            
                                2. Hooker at Chancellorsville.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Lee invades Pennsylvania.
                        
                            
                                1. Meade in command of the Union army.
                            
                            
                                2. Confederate success the first day at
                                Gerrysburg.
                            
                            
                                3. Confederates driven back the second day.
                            
                            
                                4. Lee retreats.
                            
                            
                                5. Losses.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                    
                        1. The Peninsula: Describe the position of Fortress Monroe
                            with reference to it. The rivers on the north and south of the
                            Peninsula. Situation of the Peninsula with relation to Chesapeake
                        Bay.
                    
                    
                        2. James River: Its relation to Richmond and to the
                            Peninsula.
                    
                    
                        3. Position of the Valley of Virginia with reference to the
                            Potomac River; to Washington; to eastern Virginia. Mountains on the east
                            of the Valley; on the west.
                    
                    
                        4. Position of Antietam with reference to Washington; to the
                            Potomac. 5. Gettysburg: In what State? In what direction from
                            Harrisburg? From Baltimore? From Washington?
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER LIII.
                Various Operations in 1862 and 1863.
                IN order to give a clear account of
                    the campaigns about Washington and Richmond, down to the battle of Gettysburg,
                    we have put that branch of the war into one continuous story in the preceding
                    chapter. Many things of the highest importance were happening else-where, while
                    McClellan and the generals who came after him were wrestling with Johnston, Lee,
                    and Jackson for Washington and Richmond.
                
                    Battle of the iron-clads at Fortress Monroe.
                
                At the very moment that McClellan was getting ready to move his army
                    to the Peninsula, there took place a famous naval battle in the waters of
                    Hampton Roads, near Fortress Monroe. The Confederates, having seized the Norfolk
                    Navy-Yard, had changed the hull of the steam-frigate Merrimac into an
                    iron-plated steam-ram, and named it the "Virginia." On the 8th of March, the
                    Virginia, or, as she is generally spoken of, the Merrimac, came out from Norfolk
                    into Hampton Roads, and after a battle sank the sloop-of-war Cumberland. The
                    frigate Congress was next disabled and afterward burned, for nothing built of
                    wood could make any impression on this iron monster, whose sloping sides
                    resisted cannon-balls as a bird's feathers shed the rain. The loss of life on
                    both the vessels that were destroyed was great. The steam-frigate Minnesota,
                    which was aground, was only saved from destruction by the coming of night. It
                    was expected that, with the morning, the iron ship would complete the sinking of
                    the shipping in Hampton Roads,  and
                    then go to the Potomac and attack Washington city. But, at midnight, there
                    arrived from New York, all unexpected, a little iron vessel, named the Monitor,
                    of a new pattern, invented by John Ericsson. The next morning, when the Merrimac
                    came out again, the Monitor successfully defended the Minnesota, until the
                    Confederate ram, having met its match, retire. This battle in Hampton Roads
                    changed the construction of war-ships the world over, for it was proved that
                    wooden ships were of no use against iron ones.
                
                    JOHN ERICSSON.
                
                At the beginning, many of the Northern people, who were very much in
                    favor of the war to preserve the Union, had been opposed to the abolition of
                    slavery. But, as the struggle went on, the feeling at the North against slavery
                    increased. On the 22d of September, 1862, just after the battle of Antietam,
                    President Lincoln announced that, if any portion of the country should remain in
                    arms against the government, he would declare 
                        Emancipation proclamation.
                    
                    
                        THE MONITOR AND THE MERRIMAC.
                    
                     the slaves in that part of the
                    country free. On the 1st of January, 1863, a proclamation was made, declaring
                    the slaves free in all parts of the country then in armed rebellion against the
                    government.
                We have seen that the first object of the Union armies in the West
                    was to wrest the Mississippi River from the Confederate forces who held it by
                    powerful works at Vicksburg and by forts below New Orleans. While the armies
                    were operating above, the river was attacked from below. On the 18th of April,
                    1862, the bombardment of the forts below New Orleans was begun by a fleet of
                    gunboats, and the firing lasted for five days, but the forts held out. At ten
                    o'clock on the morning of the 24th, Farragut, in command of the fleet, took the
                    bold course of running his ships past the forts. The Confederates resisted by a
                    tremendous fire from the forts and from their ships. They also tried to burn the
                    United States vessels by floating down upon them fire-rafts and burning
                    steamboats loaded with cotton, and they attacked them also with an iron-clad
                    ram, named the Manassas. But, not withstanding this resolute defense, Farragut
                    got by the forts, with some loss, and captured the city. The forts afterward
                    surrendered.
                
                    Capture of New Orleans.
                
                
                    FARRAGUT.
                
                While Halleck dallied after taking Corinth, the Confederate general
                    Bragg took thirty-five thousand men by rail to Mobile, and thence northward on
                    another line and seized Chattanooga. We shall see that it after ward cost the
                    Union troops some of the most desperate battles 
                        Bragg at Chattanooga.
                    
                     of the war to dislodge the
                    Confederates from this stronghold.
                From Chattanooga Bragg moved north and invaded Kentucky, and tried to
                    reach Louisville, on Ohio. A foot-race took place between the two armies, but
                    Buell and the Union troops reached Louisville first. After a severe battle at
                    Perryville, October 8, 1862, Bragg retreated to Chattanooga once more.
                
                    Battle of Corinth.
                
                
                    Bragg and Buell in Kentucky, 1862.
                
                Part of the Union army was yet at Corinth. While Bragg and Buell were
                    manoeuvring in Kentucky, the Confedrates, under General Van Dorn, attacked this
                    place on the 3d and 4th of October, 1862, and by the most desperate fighting
                    drove the Union army from line to line until a part of the attacking force
                    actually gained the town. But the resistance of the troops under Rosecrans was
                    as stubborn as the attack was resolute, and Van Dorn's assaults were repulsed:
                
                    BRAXTON BRAGG.
                
                Hitherto in many operations the Confederates had the advantage in
                    generalship. They were especially strong in this regard in the Virginia
                    campaigns. But the Union armies at the West were gradually coming under the
                    control of General Grant, a man of restless vigor and tremendous power of
                    endurance under difficulty and repulse. All his first attempts to take Vicksburg
                    failed. Plan after plan was tried. A ditch was dug across the bend of the river
                    opposite Vicksburg, in the hope that the river would change its bed, but this
                    failed. Grant tried to open other channels to reach the water-courses in the
                    rear of the city. From time to time, when one plan failed, he resorted to a new
                    device.
                At last gunboats and transports were run past the Vicksburg
                    batteries. Crossing the Mississippi at Bruinsburg, 
                        Grant tries many devices against Vicksburg.
                    
                    
                        Siege and surrender of Vicksburg, 1863.
                    
                     below Vicksburg, Grant got in the
                    rear of that stronghold. He took Jackson, the capital of Mississippi, and by a
                    series of movements and successive battles he at last shut up the Confederate
                    general Pemberton, with twenty thousand man, in the fortifications of Vicksburg.
                    Grant twice tried to carry the fortifications by assault, but the Confederate
                    soldiers were well-seasoned veterans behind strong works, and the assaults were
                    costly failures. The Union army, therefore, settled down to a regular siege of
                    the place. On the 4th of July, 1863, the day after the battle of Gettysburg in
                    Pennsylvania, the half-starved garrison of Vicksburg surrendered to General
                    Grant.
                
                    Surrender of Port Hudson.
                
                While Grant was operating against Vicksburg, General Banks, who had
                    taken an army of the Federal troops by sea to New Orleans, was trying to capture
                    Port Hudson, farther down the river. Here, as at Vicksburg, two assaults were
                    repulsed. But, when Vicksburg surrendered. Port Hudson was obliged to yield.
                    This gave the Union armies possession of the whole of the Mississippi River, and
                    cut off the western States of the Confederacy from the eastern.
                What took place in Hampton Roads when McClellan was about to move his
                    army to the Peninsula? How was the ram Virginia, or Merrimac, built? What ships
                    did she destroy? What unexpected opponent arrived during the night? What was the
                    result of the second day's battle? What effect did this battle have on the
                    building of war-ships in this and other countries?
                What change of feeling about slavery took place at the North during
                    the war? What proclamation did President Lincoln issue on the 22d of September,
                    1862? What proclamation was made on the 1st of January, 1863? What was the first
                    object of the Union armies in the West? By what fortifications did the 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                    
                     Confederates hold the Mississippi
                    River? How did the Union forces attack the river from below? For how many days
                    were the forts below New Orleans bombarded? Did they yield to the fire? How did
                    Farragut reach the city? What attempts were made to destroy his fleet? What
                    became of the forts below New Orleans?
                
                Were the Federal armies in the West at this time under the command of
                    a general of great ability? What advantage did the Confederate general Bragg
                    take of General Halleck's slowness after the capture of Corinth? (For the
                    capture of Corinth, see page 315.) What route did Bragg take to get to
                    Chattanooga from near Corinth? Is this a very direct route? What movement did
                    Bragg make from Chattanooga? What city was he aiming for? Who reached it before
                    him? What did he do after the battle of Perryville? After what great battle was
                    Corinth taken from the Confederates? What took place at Corinth on October 3 and
                    4, 1862? What was the result of Van Dorn's attack on the place? In what regard
                    had the Confederates been the stronger in many operations? What general in the
                    Union army was now rising into control of the Western armies? What is said on
                    him? What success did his first plans for taking Vicksburg meet with? What were
                    some of his plans? When gunboats had been run past the Vicksburg batteries, what
                    did General Grant do? What town did he capture to the eastward of Vicksburg? Of
                    what State is Jackson the capital? What did he at last succeed in doing? When he
                    had shut up General Pemberton in Vicksburg, what did he try to do? What was the
                    result of these assaults? What course was then taken to reduce Vicksburg? With
                    what result? Who was operation against Port Hudson while Grant was besieging
                    Vicksburg? Did General Banks succeed in carrying the works by assault? What led
                    to the surrender of Port Hudson? What was now the condition of the Mississippi
                    River?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Battle in Hampton Roads.
                        
                            
                                1. The Merrimac.
                            
                            
                                2. Her first successes.
                            
                            
                                3. The Monitor.
                            
                            
                                4. Her defense and its results.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Emancipation Proclamation.
                        
                            
                                1. Increase of feeling at the North against
                                slavery.
                            
                            
                                2. Preliminary proclamation.
                            
                            
                                3. Final proclamation, January 1, 1863.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        III. The campaign against New Orleans.
                        
                            
                                1. The effort to secure the Mississippi.
                            
                            
                                2. Bombardment of the forts below New Orleans.
                            
                            
                                3. Farragut runs past the forts.
                            
                            
                                4. Capture of the city and forts.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Bragg and Buell.
                        
                            
                                1. Bragg goes to Chattanooga.
                            
                            
                                2. Bragg invades Kentucky.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Perryville.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Battle of Corinth.
                    
                    
                        VI. The Vicksburg campaign.
                        
                            
                                1. Rise and military character of Grant.
                            
                            
                                2. His failures at Vicksburg.
                            
                            
                                3. His campaign back of Vicksburg.
                            
                            
                                4. Attempt to carry the works by storm.
                            
                            
                                5. Siege and surrender.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        VII. Campaign against Port Hudson.
                        
                            
                                1. Banks tries to carry it by assault.
                            
                            
                                2. Its surrender.
                            
                            
                                3. The conquest of the Mississippi.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        1. Hampton Roads: What great river comes in at Hampton Roads?
                            Why was it called the James River? (Page 20.) What fortress guards the
                            entrance to Hampton Roads? On what river is Norfolk situated? In what
                            general direction would the Merrimac sail in passing from Norfolk to
                            Hampton Roads?
                    
                    
                        2. How did Farragut approach New Orleans?
                    
                    
                        3. In what direction is Louisville from Chattanooga? Across
                            what two States would Bragg have to pass to reach Louisville from
                            Chattanooga? In what State is Chattanooga? On what river is
                        Louisville?
                    
                    
                        4. On what river is Vicksburg? In what direction is Jackson
                            from Vicksburg? In what State are Vicksburg and Jackson? What direction
                            is Port Hudson from Vicksburg? From New Orleans? What is the general
                            course of the Mississippi River?
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER LIV.
                The Campaign between Nashville and Atlanta.
                THE Western part of the war had
                    become divided into two main parts. The Union armies won their first object when
                    they gained control of the Mississippi. But another long and bitter contest was
                    fought out before 
                        The war in central Tennessee.
                    
                     they could secure the strongholds of
                    central Tennessee and northern Georgia.
                The first great battle on this line was that of Stone's River, or
                    Murfreesboro, fought on the last day of the year 1862, about the time that Grant
                    was beginning operations against Vicksburg. The conflict was marked by the
                    brilliant charges made by the Confederates under Bragg, which at length broke to
                    pieces the whole right wing of the Union army. General Rosecrans had succeeded
                    Buell in command of the Union troops. The result of the day's fighting was very
                    favorable to the Confederates. But in the latter part of the day the
                    half-defeated Union soldiers, under the immediate command of General Thomas,
                    made the most determined resistance to the dashes which the Confederates
                    continued to make. Some of the generals wished to retreat, but Rosecrans, who
                    had defended Corinth with so much stubbornness, announced his intention to
                    "fight or die here." On the nest day, which was the first day of 1863, neither
                    of the shattered armies was in a condition to make a serious attack. On the
                    third day of the battle the Confederates, by a tremendous charge, drove back
                    part of the left wing of Rosecrans's army, but they were soon cut to pieces and
                    themselves driven back. After the two armies had bravely held their ground with
                    varying fortunes for three days, Bragg retreated, and Rosecrans entered
                    Murfreesboro. Each army had lost about nine thousand in killed and wounded,
                    besides those captured.
                
                    Battle of Stone River, or Murfreesboro.
                
                
                    W. S. ROSECRANS.
                
                In the summer and autumn of 1863, Rosecrans, by some well-planned
                    manoeuvres, put Bragg at such disadvantage that he was forced to fall back from
                    time to time until he had left Chattanooga in the hands of the Union 
                        The battle of Chickamauga.
                    
                    
                    
                        HOLDING THE LINE.
                    
                     troops. But Bragg received
                    re-enforcements, and the great battle Chickamauga was fought on the 19th and
                    20th of September, 1863. It was a battle of charge and counter-charge. On the
                    first day the Union army won considerable advantage; but on the second day the
                    right half of Rosecrans's army was broken, and it retreated in confusion toward
                    Chattanooga. The utter rout of the Union army was prevented by General Thomas,
                    whose division had also saved the army at Murfreesboro. With extraordinary
                    coolness he held the left wing against repeated assaults, and, when ammunition
                    failed, his men used their bayonets to repel the Confederate charges. Though
                    Bragg's troops, by splendid fighting, had gained a great victory, Thomas, by the
                    most brilliant defense of the war, kept them back ling enough to enable
                    Rosecrans to prepare for the defense of Chattanooga, to which place the Union
                    troops retreated.
                
                    GEORGE H. THOMAS.
                
                Grant, who had gained great reputation by his Vicksburg campaign, was
                    now given command of all the forces west of the mountains. Rosecrans was
                    relieved, and Thomas, who was called "the Rock of Chickamauga," was put in his
                    place. Grant took immediate command of the besieged troops in Chattanooga, with
                    Thomas next.
                
                    Grant in command at Chattanooga.
                
                Bragg having sent a way a part of his army to attack Burnside in East
                    Tennessee, Grant took advantage of this weakening of his force to attack Bragg's
                    army in his front. The main body of Bragg's army was intrenched in Chattanooga
                    Valley. Bragg also held Missionary Ridge, in his rear, and Lookout Mountain, to
                    the south-west. Hooker attacked and carried Lookout Mountain on the morning of
                    November 25, 1863, while a mist shut 
                        Battles at Chattanooga.
                    
                     out the summit from the valley. This
                    is sometimes called "The Battle above the Clouds." But Sherman, who had
                    previously carried an outlying hill at the north end of Missionary Ridge, was
                    checked in his attempt to advance by the obstinate resistance of the
                    Confederates under Hardee. Grant, therefore, sent the army under Thomas out of
                    Chattanooga to attack the Confederates in front, with instructions to carry the
                    first line and lie down. By a swift charge, under a severe fire, they carried
                    the line at the foot of the mountain; but the guns of the Confederates on the
                    top of Missionary Ridge sent a galling fire upon them. without orders one
                    impatient regiment after another rushed up the hill. Bragg's troops made a
                    vigorous resistance, but the eager assailants carried the line in six places,
                    and the Confederate army was forced to retreat.
                Grant was now put in command of all the Union armies, and he took
                    charge in person of the army in front of Washington, while Sherman was left to
                    command the Western army. Sherman, a man of incessant activity and ability of
                    many kinds, was confronted by the Confederate general Joseph E. Johnston, who
                    had been appointed to succeed Bragg. Johnston also was a man of military genius,
                    and extremely prudent. Sherman, by skillful manceuvres, tried to force Johnston
                    to fight in the open field, so as to increase the difficulty of supplying his
                    army, and to compel Sherman to attack him behind breastworks.
                
                    Sherman against Johnston. Kenesaw Mountain.
                
                
                    
                        Joseph Eggleston Johnston was born in
                        Virginia in 1807. He graduated at West Point in 1829. He distinguished
                        himself as an engineer and in active service during the Mexican War. He
                        resigned in 1861, and entered the Confederate army, where he always
                        displayed the greatest prudence and ability.
                
                
                    J. E. JOHNSTON.
                
                
                Many severe engagements were fought, but Johnston avoided a general
                    battle. At length Sherman attacked Johnston at Kenesaw Mountain, but the
                    Confederates repulsed him.
                The Confederate government, dissatisfied with Johnston's long and
                    cautious retreat before Sherman, removed him, and General Hood took his place.
                    Hood believed in sharp fighting, and several battles took place at various
                    points about Atlanta, but they generally resulted in favor of the Union army. At
                    length, Sherman got a considerable part of his army south of Atlanta, so that
                    Hood was compelled to abandon that city or be shut up in it.
                
                    Hood succeeds Johnston. Sherman takes Atlanta.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                    J. B. HOOD.
                
                Into what two main parts had the war west of the Alleghanies become
                    divided? What object did the Union armies secure with the fall of Vicksburg?
                    What strongholds were to be won by another contest? What was the first great
                    battle on the line of central Tennessee and northern Georgia? What was Grant
                    doing at the time the battle of Murgreesboro was fought? In what part of the
                    year 1862 did this battle near Murgreesboro take place? How did the Confederate
                    soldiers carry on the battle? What was the general result of the day's fighting?
                    What did Rosecrans say that night? What was the condition of the two armies on
                    New-Year's day, 1863? What did the Confederates do on the following day? What
                    was the result of this charge? What course did Bragg then take? What is said of
                    the losses in this battle? How did Rosecrans force Bragg to fall back in the
                    summer of 1863? What now became of Chattanooga? What battle did Bragg fight in
                    September, 1863, to recover Chattanooga? What kind of a battle was it? Which
                    army won advantages on the first day? What took place on the second day? What
                    prevented the destruction of the Union army? What other battle had Thomas saved?
                    What name did Thomas get from this defense on this occasion? 
                        BATTLES ABOUT CHATTANOOGA.
                    
                     Which army gained a great victory?
                    What did "the Rock of Chickamauga" secure by his defense? Who was put in command
                    of all the forces west of the Alleghanies? Who now took the place of Rosecrans?
                    By what success had Grant won a great reputation? Of what army did Grant now
                    take immediate command? How did Bragg at this time weaken his army? Where was
                    the main body of his army? What two mountains did he hold? What did Hooker
                    attack and carry? What is the battle on Lookout Mountain sometimes called? How
                    did Sherman's attack on the other extreme of Bragg's defense get on? What did
                    Grant order Thomas's men to do? Did they stay long at the first line? Why? What
                    was the result of this charge up the ridge?
                What change was now made in the position of General Grant? Who was
                    left chief in command of the Western armies? What kin of a man was Sherman? Who
                    had succeeded Bragg? What kind of a man was Joseph E. Joseph E. Johnston? What
                    did Sherman try to do? What did Johnston wish to do? What was the result of the
                    battle of Kenesaw Mountain? Why did the Confederate government remove Johnston?
                    Whom did they put in his place? What was the general result of the fighting
                    about Altanta? How did Sherman force Hood to abandon Atlanta?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. The war in the West divided into two parts.
                    
                    
                        II. Rosecrans and Bragg.
                        
                            
                                1. The battle of Stone River, or Murfreesboro.
                            
                            
                                2. Battle of Chickamauga.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Grant and Bragg.
                        
                            
                                1. Grant in command.
                            
                            
                                2. Bragg weakens his army.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Chattanooga.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Hooker takes Lookout
                                            Mountain.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. Sherman partly
                                            successful at Missionary Ridge.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. The volunteer charge
                                            of Thomas's troope gains the victory.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Sherman and Johnston.
                        
                            
                                1. Sherman command: his character.
                            
                            
                                2. Johnston succeeds Bragg: his character.
                            
                            
                                3. Sherman and Johnston manuvring.
                            
                            
                                4. Confederate victory at Kenesaw Mountain.
                            
                            
                                5. Johnston removed.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Sherman and Hodd.
                        
                            
                                1. Hood tries sharp fighting without success.
                            
                            
                                2. Hood abandons Atlanta.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    MAIN POINTS OF THE CAMPAIGN BETWEEN NASHVILLE AND
                        ATLANTA.
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                In what general direction is Murfreesboro form Nashaville? In about
                    what direction is Chattangooga from Nashville? In what drirection is Atlanta
                    from Nashville? Atlanta from Chattanooga?
            
            
            
                CHAPTER LV.
                From the Wilderness to Petersburg. The War in
                    the Valley.
                In the spring of 1864 General Grant, who had taken Vicksburg and won
                    the battle of Chattanooga, was put in command of all the armies of the Union. He
                    left Sherman, as we have seen, to command in the West, while he took up his
                    headquarters with Meade in front Washington. The veteran Eastern armies that had
                    fought so long against each other, between Washington and Richmond, were now to
                    fight to the death, each under the most famous general on its side.
                
                    ULYSSES S. GRANT.
                
                
                    Grant confronts Lee.
                
                
                    Ulysses S. Grant was born in Point Pleasant, Ohio, April 27,
                        1822. He spent his bodyhood on a farm. In 1839 he was appointed a cadet at
                        West Point, from which he graduated about the middle of his class in rank.
                        As a lieutenant in the Mexican War, he was conspicuous for bravery, taking
                        part in the battles of palo Alto, Resaca de la Palma, and the assault on
                        Monterey. He also took part in the siege of Vera Cruz, and the succeeding
                        battle of Scott's campaign. He resigned from the army in 1854 and engaged in
                        farming, but was not successful. When the civil was broke out he was a clerk
                        in the leather-store of his father in Galena, Ill., on a small salary. He
                        then became mustering officer for the State of Illinois, was appointed
                        colonel of the Twenty-first Regiment from that State, and thus entered on
                        his great military career, the outlines of which will be found in the text.
                        After serving two terms as President, he retired to private life, and made a
                        journey round the world, receiving honours wherever he went. He died on
                        Mount McGregor, N. Y., on the 23d of July, 1885.
                
                
                    Desperate battles in "The Wilderness."
                
                Under Grant and Meade, the Army of the Potomac moved forward to ward
                    Richmond. It encountered Lee's  army
                    in a region of dense wood, full of undergrowth known as "The Wilderness."
                    Grant's army was much the more numerous, for by this time the South, which had
                    put forth nearly its whole strength from the beginning, was becoming somewhat
                    exhausted. On the otherhand, Lee fought behind intrenchments, and, in changing
                    his position moved on shorter lines than his opponet. For sixteen days, in the
                    Wilderness and about Spottsylvania Court-House, the armies were so close to each
                    other in the thick brush that the men had to be continually on guard, and so
                    they got little chance for sleep. When they changed positions, the marching was
                    generally done in the night, while the days witnessed the most tremendous
                    fighting the had been seen since the battle of the great Napoleon. In sixteen
                    days the Union army lost 37,500 men, and Lee's losses, though much less, were
                    severe.
                
                    Manuvres.
                
                Robert Edward Lee was born in Virginia, June 19, 1807. He graduated
                    at West point in 1829, second in his class. He distinguished himself as an
                    engineer in the siege of Vera Cruz. He was for three years in command of the
                    Military Academy at West Point. When his own State of Virginia seceded, he
                    thought himself bound to go with it. He resigned his commission on the 20th of
                    April, 1861, and was made commander-in chief of the Virginia State forces, and
                    later a Confederate general. To his great ability was mostly due the
                    stubbornness of the struggle carried on by the Confederates between Richmond and
                    Washington. After the war was over, General Lee accepted the result manfully,
                    and devoted himself to his duties as President of Washington-lee University, at
                    Lexington, Va., where he died on the 12th of October, 1870.
                Lee was not crushed, but Grant got nearer to Richmond from time to
                    time by secretly moving a part of the army from his right and marching it around
                    to the rear of his other troops, and then pushing it as far ahead on his left as
                    possible. By thus outflanking Lee, Grant compelled him to fall back, that he
                    might not be cut off from Richmond and his supplies. But Lee always managed to
                    fall back in time to be  again
                    between Grant's army and Richmond. The two great generals and the two veteran
                    armies were well matched and neither could gain a complete victory.
                This fighting and this moving to the eastward and around Lee's flank
                    were kept up with varying success until Grant got near to Richmond, when, on the
                    2d of June, 1864, at Cold Harbor, Grant attacked the Confederate works along the
                    whole line. The Union army was repulsed with a loss of nearly six thousand men
                    in an hour.
                
                    Attempt to take Petersburg.
                
                
                    ROBERT E. LEE.
                
                On the 13th of June, 1864, by another rapid march to the left,
                    General Grant's army began to cross the James River. As soon as over, they made
                    an attempt to capture Petersburg, in order to cut off one source of supplies and
                    re-enforcements for Richmond. The outer works near Petersburg were carried, but
                    the Confederates fell back to new lines, and received re-enforcements. The
                    attempt to drive them out of these by assault failed. The Union troops now built
                    trenches close up to the Confederate works, and the two armies held these
                    frowning lines, face to face, for nine months, until within a few days of the
                    close of the war.
                
                    Explosion of the mine. Attack repulsed.
                
                Soon after the siege began, a mine was dug from the trenches of the
                    Union army under an angle of the Confederate works. By this mine a part of the
                    works was blown up on the 30th of July. An attack was made immediately after,
                    but it was badly managed,  and only
                    resulted in the loss of a great many Union soldiers.
                
                    Hunter marches up the vally, and tries to take Lynchburg.
                
                In all the years of the war there had been a smaller campaign carried
                    on in the Valley of Virginia. This fertile valley lies between ranges of
                    mountains. Its morthern end reaches the Potomac not very far away from
                    Washington. In this valley the Confederate general Breckinridge defeated General
                    Sigel at New Market on the 15th of May, 1864. General Hunter, who took command
                    of the Union troops, defeated the Confederate general Imboden at Piedmont twenty
                    days later. Hunter, with eighteen thousand men, pushed for Lynchburg, which was
                    a place of the greatest importance. He destroyed railroads and worked much
                    damage, but Lynchburg was re-enforced in time to save it. Finding his retreat
                    down the Valley cut off, Hunter saved his starving army by making his way into
                    the Kanawha Valley. This took him to the west of the Alleghany Mountains, and
                    quite out of the Valley.
                
                    Early marches down the Valley, and tries to take Washington.
                
                The Valley was thus left open to Early, who marched a Confederate
                    force down to Harper's Ferry and across into Maryland. Early defeated a small
                    force under General Lew Wallace at Monocacy on the 7th of July, and pushed
                    straight for Washington, which he might have captured at a dash had he been a
                    little quicker; but re-enforcements from Grant's army marched into the works as
                    the assault began, and he was repulsed. He retreated again up the Valley,
                    pursued by a strong force. But, when a part of the Union troops was withdrawn
                    and sent back to Grant, Early attacked and defeated those under Crook at
                    Kernstown, and threw his cavalry across the 
                        JUBAL EARLY.
                    
                     Potomac again, and into
                    Pennsylvania, where they burned Chambersburg. In getting back into Virginia,
                    this cavalry force was attacked and defeated.
                
                    Sheridan in the Valley. Battles at Winchester and Fisher's
                    Hill.
                
                General Sheridan was now given charge of the Union troops on this
                    line. Sheridan was for a long time very wary, determined not to risk a battle
                    against an experienced general like Early without a good chance for success.
                    When Early's force had been weakened by the sending of part of it to
                    Pertersburg, Sheridan attacked him and won the battle of Opequon, or Winchester,
                    on the 19th of September, 1864. Three days later, Sheridan attacked Early in his
                    trenches at Fisher's Hill, having sent a force around to suddenly assail him on
                    one side or flank, while the rest of the Union troops charged the works in
                    front. Early's men, attacked on two sides, were routed and driven farther up the
                    Valley to the south.
                
                    PHILIP H. SHERIDAN.
                
                
                    Destruction in the Valley. Battle of Cedar Creek. Sheridan's
                        ride.
                
                Philip Henry Sheridan was born in Albany, N. Y., March 6, 1831. He
                    graduated at West Point in 1853. He first gained distinction as a cavalry
                    commander, then he showed great qualities at Perryville and Murfreesboro, after
                    which he was made a major-general. At Chickamauga and in the battles about
                    Chattanooga he further distinguished himself. His campaign in the Valley of
                    Virginia and the part he play in the closing scenes made him one of the most
                    famous generals of the war. He succeeded Sherman at the head of the army, and in
                    1888 he was made a full general. Only Grant and Sherman had attained that rank
                    in the United States army before him. He died at Nonquitt, Mass., Aug. 5, 1888.
                Sheridan burned all the barns filled with grain, and carried off all
                    the stock in the Valley, to prevent the Confederates from returning. But when
                    Sheridan went back toward the Potomac, Early, largely re-enforced, followed him
                    through this land of starvation. While Sheridan was absent from his troops, a
                         part of Early's array, leaving
                    behind their swords, canteens, and everything that could make a noise, moved the
                    night along a lonely path until they got around the flank and behind the Union
                    army, and surprised them while they were asleep. Early, at the same time, with
                    the rest of his troops, attacked Sheridan's army in front This was the beginning
                    of the battle of Cedar Creek. The Confederates defeat and drove back the Union
                    troops for four miles, capturing many prisoners. Sheridan, hearing the firing,
                    put spurs to his horse, and rode up the Valley, calling to his fleeing soldiers,
                    "Come, boys, we're going back!" His presence turned the tide, and by night had
                    defeated Early once more. A few smaller actions ended the campaign, for most of
                    the troops on both sides were needed at Petersburg, where the last struggle of
                    all was to take place.
                
                    COLD COMFORT.
                
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                Who was put in command of all the Union armies in the spring of 1864?
                    Whom did Grant leave in command of the Western armies? Where did he make his own
                    headquarters? Where did Grants army encounter the army of Lee? What kind of a
                    region was the Wilderness? Which army contained the more men? What was the state
                    of the South at this time? What advantage did Lee have? For sixteen days after
                    the armies came together, what was the character of the struggle? When was the
                    marching done? What is said of the fighting? What can you tell about the losses?
                    What was the result of al this fighting and moving? How did Grant move his army
                    nearer to Richmond? How did Lee fall back? What took place at Cold Harbor on the
                    2d of June, 1864?
                
                    WILDERNESS CAMPAIGN.
                
                What did Grant do on the 13th of June? When his army was across, what
                    did they try to do? Did they meet with any success? Did they capture Petersburg
                    by assault? Seeing that Petersburg could not be carried by assault, what did the
                    Union troops do? What measure was taken for blowing up the Confederate works?
                    What was the result? Why did it end badly?
                What is said of the campaigns in the Valley of Virginia? Which side
                    won the battle of New Market in May, 1864? What took place at Peidmont twenty
                    days later? What did Hunter do after defeating the Confederates? Why did he not
                    capture Lynchburg? How did Hunter escape? What advantage did the Confederate
                    general Early take of Hunter's absence from the Valley? What was the result of
                    the battle of Monocacy? Against what place did Early afterward march? Why did he
                    not capture Washington? Where did he go? Where did he defeat Crook? What did he
                    do afterward? What town in Pennsylvania was burned by Confederate cavalry? What
                    happened to this force in getting back into Virginia? Who now took charge of the
                    Union troops in the Valley? What led Sheridan to attack Early? What was the
                    result of the battle of Opequon, or Winchester? What battle was fought three
                    days later? How was the attack made? What was the result of the battle of
                    Fisher's Hill?
                What did Sheridan do to keep Early's troop from occupying the Valley
                    again? Did Early come down the Valley again? How did the begin the battle of
                    Cedar Creek? What did he accomplish? What turned the tide? What did Sheridan say
                    as he came back? What was the result? Why did not the war in the Valley
                    continue? Where was the last struggle of all to take place?
                
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Grant and Sherman in command of the Union armies.
                    
                    
                        II. From the Wilderness to Petersburg.
                        
                            
                                1. The battles in the Wilderness and about
                                    Spottsylvania.
                            
                            
                                2. The movements by which Grant got nearer to
                                    Richmond.
                            
                            
                                3. The assault at Cold Harbor.
                            
                            
                                4. The crossing of the James.
                            
                            
                                5. Before Petersburg.
                            
                            
                                Also
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. Relative strength of
                                            the two armies.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. How the Union army was
                                            moved to the left.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. Hardship of marching
                                            at night and fighting by day.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The war in the Valley.
                        
                            
                                1. Breckinridge defeats Sigel.
                            
                            
                                2. Hunter defeats Imboden.
                            
                            
                                3. Hunter pushes for Lynchburg.
                            
                            
                                4. His retreat by Kanawha Valley.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Invasion of Maryland by Early.
                        
                            
                                1. The Valley left open by Hunter.
                            
                            
                                2. Early crosses into Maryland.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Monocacy.
                            
                            
                                4. Washington narrowly escapes capture.
                            
                            
                            
                                5. Early's retreat.
                            
                            
                                6. Early's cavalry cross again. Burning of
                                    Chambersburg, in Pennsylvania.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Sheridan against Early.
                        
                            
                                1. Sheridan cautious.
                            
                            
                                2. Battle of Winchester, or Opequon.
                            
                            
                                3. Battle of Fisher's Hill.
                            
                            
                                4. Destruction in the Valley.
                            
                            
                                5. Battle of Cedar Creek.
                            
                            
                                6. Close of the campaign.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                1. Direction of the "Wilderness" from Washington. Location of
                    Spottsylvania Court-house with reference to the Wilderness. In what direction
                    from Richmond is Cold Harbor? On which side of the James River is Cold Harbor?
                    On which side is Richmond? What direction from the James river is Petersburg? Is
                    Petersburg on the James River? In what direction is Petersburg from Richmond? 2.
                    What Mountains on the eastern side of the Valley of Virginia? What on the
                    western? Where is the Potomac River With reference to the Valley? What place is
                    on the Potomac at the mouth of the Shenandoah River? In what direction from
                    Washington is Harper's Ferry? Is Washington on the Virginia or on the Maryland
                    bank of the Potomac? 3. On which side of the Alleghany Mountains is the Kanawha
                    River? Into what river does it flow?
            
            
                CHAPTER LVI.
                Close of the Civil War.
                IN Chapter LIV we have seen that
                    Sherman captured Atlanta, having in opposition to him the Confederate general
                    Hood. The latter was a bold man, and he determined to force Sherman to fall back
                    into Tennessee again, by going to his rear and cutting off his supplies from the
                    North. But Sherman, knowing that the resources of the South were almost
                    exhausted, concluded to risk a blow that might end the war. Leaving the troops
                    in Tennessee under command of General Thomas, he set out from Atlanta with the
                    rest of his army, to march southward through the heart of the Confederacy.
                
                    Sherman's march begun.
                
                
                    Hood in Tennessee. Battle of Franklin.
                
                Hood, refusing to follow Sherman into Georgia, pushed northward into
                    Tennessee, resolved to strike  Thomas
                    before lie could get his forces together. Hood attacked a part of General
                    Thomas's troops, under General Schofield, at Franklin in Tennessee. The
                    Confederates made the most desperate charges, carrying, at first, a portion of
                    the Union lines, but Schofield succeeded in holding his works long enough to get
                    safely across the Harpeth River. He then fell back, and joined Thomas at
                    Nashville. Hood soon encamped before Nashville, where, after a rather long
                    delay, he was attacked on the morning of December 15th by Thomas's whole army. A
                    two days' battle ensued, which resulted in the utter defeat of Hood's army. This
                    was a blow from which the exhausted Confederacy could not recover.
                
                    GENERAL SCHOFIELD.
                
                
                    Battle of Nashville.
                
                
                    Sherman destroying in Georgia. Savannah taken.
                
                While Hood and Thomas were manuvring in Tennessee, Sherman and his
                    army were marching through the Confederacy. His men were consuming supplies that
                    would otherwise have sustained Lee in Richmond. Railroads of the greatest
                    military value were utterly destroyed, by making fires of the cross-ties and
                    then heating and twisting the rails. Nothing could have tended more to being the
                    war to an end than the breaking of the railways, on which food and soldiers must
                    be moved. Just before the battle of Nashville was fought, Sherman reached
                    Savannah and laid siege to it, having been about a month without communication
                    with the North. On the 20th of December the Confederates evacuated Savannah, and
                    Sherman occupied it.
                
                    Capture of Fort Fishers and Wilmington.
                
                In order to give Sherman, when he should move northward, a new base
                    of supplies from the sea, and in order to stop blockade-running, an expedition
                    was  sent to capture Wilmington, in
                    North Carolina. Fort Fisher, which guarded the entrance to this place, was
                    bombarded by a fleet and then carried by assault, on January 15, 1865. By way of
                    Wilmington, General Schofield, with a part of Thomas's army from Tennessee, now
                    pushed up to Goldsboro, in North Carolina, tomeet Sherman when he should reach
                    that place.
                William Tecumseh Sherman was born in Ohio in 1820. He graduated at
                    West Point in 1840. He resigned from the army in 1853, and engaged in the
                    banking business in San Francisco. Later he practiced law in Kansas. When the
                    war broke out, he was superintendent of the military school in Louisiana. He was
                    reappointed to the army in 1861. At the close of the war he was next in rank to
                    General Grant, and he became general of the army when Grant became President.
                On the 1st of February, 1865, Sherman's tough veterans left Savannah
                    and moved northward through the Carolinas, in rain and through overflowing
                    swamps. Columbia was taken and burned. It is said to have been burned by
                    accident, or, at least, against the orders of Sherman. The Union army pushed on
                    northward. Johnston did not give battle till Sherman had reached Averysboro, in
                    North Carolina. Here the Confederates were defeated; but at Bentonville, on the
                    19th of March General Joseph E. Johnston came near to defeating one column of
                    Sherman's army before re-enforcements could reach it.
                
                    Sherman's march nortward.
                
                
                    WILLIAM TECUMSEH SHERMAN.
                
                Sherman, by his marches, had broken to pieces the interior lines of
                    travel in the Southern States, and greatly added to the troubles of Lee in
                    Richmond. Neither re-enforcements nor supplies could be had without difficulty.
                         The Southern people, who had
                    bravely suffered the greatest hardships, were now disheartened. Lee began to
                    consider how he could retreat. But Grant, whose force was more than twice as
                    large as Lee's, moved Sheridan's part of the army around to the south of the
                    Confederate works, in order, if possible, to prevent Lee's dwindling array from
                    getting away.
                
                    Movements about Petersburg.
                
                
                    Battle of Five Oaks, Lee's works carried.
                
                Lee was everywhere outnumbered, and his men were beaten and captured,
                    especially in the battle of Five Forks, on the 1st of April. Lee had weakened
                    his force in front of Grant, by drawing out troops to keep Sheridan from cutting
                    the railroads that brought him supplies, and while the battle of Five Forks was
                    taking place, some of the Confederate works at Petersburg were carried by
                    assault, and others were taken the next day.
                
                    Lee's retreat and surrender, April 9, 1865.
                
                The night following, that is, the 2d of April, Lee began his retreat
                    from Richmond. His first object was to reach Danville, Va., and from that place
                    to unite with Johnston. But, finding a Union force between him and Danville, his
                    now starving army was turned toward Lynchburg. Sheridan's cavalry cut him off
                    from Lynchburg, and on the 9th of April, 1865, Lee surrendered his army to
                    General Grant, at Appomattox Court-House.
                
                    Johnston surrenders. Close of the war.
                
                Johnston could make no stand alone, and sixteen days later he
                    surrendered to General Sherman. The smaller the four terrible years of war were
                    at last ended. The soldiers on both sides returned to their homes. No war so
                    vast had ever been seen in modern times, and no braver men had ever fought. The
                    impressions left by the sufferings of the civil war have produced a strong
                    sentiment in favor of peace.
                
                What was Hood's plan for forcing Sherman to fall back into Tennessee
                    again? When Hood moved around to his rear, did Sherman follow? What kind of a
                    blow did he mediate? Under whose command did he put the troops which he left in
                    Tennessee? What did he do with the rest of his army? Did Hood follow Sherman?
                    Where did he go? What portion of Thomas's troops did Hood first at tack? Where?
                    What was the result of the battle of Franklin? To what place did Schofield fall
                    back? Where was the next battle fought? How long did the battle of Nashville
                    last? With what result? While Hood and Thomas were manuvring in Tennessee, where
                    was Sherman's army? What was Sherman doing to injure the power of the
                    Confederacy? At what point on the coast did Sherman come out? Was this before or
                    after Hood's defeat at Nashville? How long had Sherman's army been without
                    communication with the North? What happened at Savannah? What fort on the coast
                    of North Carolina was captured? What city was near to Fort Fisher? What general
                    was sent to enter North Carolina by Wilmington? What battle had Schofield fought
                    in Tennessee? (See above.) In what direction did Sherman move from Savannah?
                    What was the result of the fight at Averysboro? Where did Johnston almost defeat
                    one of Sherman's columns? What effect had Sherman's marches produced on Lee's
                    operations? What was Lee considering? What was Grant trying to prevent? How?
                    What was the result of the battle of five Forks on April 1,1865? What happened
                    at Petersburg while the battle of Five Forks was taking place? What did Lee do
                    when his works were carried? What was Lee's first object in his retreat? Did he
                    succeed? Toward what point did he next turn? How was he prevented from reaching
                    Lynchburg? What was the result?
                What did Johnston do? What is said of the end of the war? What
                    impressions did the sufferings of the civil war make on the country?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    SHERMAN'S MARCH
                
                
                    
                        I. Sherman and Hood.
                        
                            
                                1. Hood in Sherman's rear.
                            
                            
                                2. Sherman to go southward.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        II. Hood and Thomas.
                        
                            
                                1. The battle of Franklin.
                            
                            
                                2. Battle of Nashville.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Sherman's march to the sea.
                        
                            
                                1. Destroying railroads.
                            
                            
                                2. Savannah captured.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. The movement into North Carolina.
                        
                            
                                1. Wilmington taken.
                            
                            
                                Schofield moves to Goldsboro.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. Sherman's northward march.
                        
                            
                                1. Difficulties of the march.
                            
                            
                                2. Battle of Averysboro.
                            
                            
                                Battle at Bentonvlle.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VI. The fall of Richmond and surrender of Lee's army.
                        
                            
                                1. Lee's increased difficulties.
                            
                            
                                2. Five Forks battle.
                            
                            
                                3. Petersburg works carried.
                            
                            
                                4. Lee's retreat.
                            
                            
                                5. Lee's surrender.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VII. Closing scenes of the civil war.
                        
                            
                                Surrender of Johnston and others.
                            
                            
                                Return of soldiers to their homes.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Geography.
                
                
                What State on the Atlantic coast lies northeastward of Georgia? What
                    State next to South Carolina on the north? What State lies on the North
                    Carolina? In marching from Savannah, in Georgia, to Columbia, in what direction
                    did Sherman go? In moving from Columbia, in South Carolina, to Goldsboro, in
                    North Carolina, in what general direction did he march? In what direction is
                    Goldsboro from Wilmingtom? Schofield's troops were moved from Nashville to
                    Washington and thence by water t Wilmington: in what direction is Nashville to
                    Washington and thence by water to Wilmington: in what direction is Nashville
                    from Wilmington? In what direction is Washington from Wilmington? In what State
                    is Wilmington? What is the capital of North Carolina.?
            
            
                CHAPTER LVII.
                Traits and Results of the War.Death of Lincoln.
                
                    The Trent affair. Danger of war with England.
                
                THE war led to some complications in
                    the foreign relations of the United States. Both in England and France there
                    were statesmen who were jealous of the rapid growth of this country. They were
                    afraid that the United States would become more powerful than their own
                    countries, and they would have been pleased to see it divided. In 1861 this
                    hostile feeling in England was  very
                    much increased by what is called "The Trent affair." Mason and Slidell were sent
                    as ambassadors from the Confederate StatesMason to England, and Slidell to
                    France. They ran the blockade, getting out of the harbor of Charleston during a
                    dark night, and reached Havana. From Havana they sailed in the Trent, an English
                    steamer. Captain Wilkes, of an American man-of-war, stopped the Trent and took
                    Mason and Slidell from it, carrying them Prisoners to the United States. This
                    act produced great excitement in England, and for a while war seemed imminent
                    between the two countries. But on the demand of Great Britain, the United States
                    surrendered the ambassadors, as improperly captured.
                
                    Blockade of the Southern coast.
                
                The United States Navy had been rapidly enlarged after the war began.
                    One of its principal duties was to blockade the Southern ports to keep the
                    Confederates from getting arms and other supplies from foreign countries. Many
                    fast-sailing English ships were engaged in running this blockade. These, by the
                    law of nations, were subject to capture by the Union ships, and many were taken,
                    but the high prices paid for the commodities that were got in, justified the
                    risk. These blockade-runners generally entered the Southern ports at night. But,
                    when the chief Southern ports were captured one after another by the navy and
                    land-forces of the Union, blockade-running was gradually stopped.
                
                    Confederate navy. The Albama and "the Albama claims."
                
                The Confederate government could not get much of a navy afloat from
                    ports so well blockaded, but ships were built in England and secretly sent to
                    sea. These received Confederate commissions, and almost succeeded in  ruining American commerce. The most
                    famous of these ships, called the "Alabama," was commanded by Captain Raphael
                    Semmes. It was built in England, and it captain Raphael Semmes. It was built in
                    England, and it captured in all sixty-seven merchant and whaling ships. In a
                    fight with the United States man-of-war Kearsarge, the Alabama was sunk in the
                    English Channel, June 19, 1864. After the war the United States set up claims
                    against the British government on account of the damages done to American
                    commerce by the Alabama and other Confederate cruisers built in England. The
                    "Alabama claims," as they were called, after years of discussion, were submitted
                    to a court of arbitration which sat in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1872, and
                    condemned England to pay to the United States $15,500,000.
                
                    Legal-tender paper money, or "greenbacks,"
                
                The expenses of the war can never be fully estimated. The United
                    States government borrowed money on interest, by giving bonds to pay after a
                    certain number of years. A large part of this debt has now been paid. But, as
                    another means of borrowing money, "legal-tender notes" were issued; that is,
                    paper bills, which by law could be used to pay debts and taxes, instead of
                    coins. These legal-tender notes were printed on a peculiar green paper, and got
                    the name of "greenbacks." When a great quantity of them had been issued, and the
                    dangers to the government increased, the value of this paper money decreased,
                    until at one time a dollar of it was really worth but half a dollar. However, as
                    the greenbacks were by law good for the payment of debts, they were used instead
                    of the more valuable silver and gold, which for seventeen years disappeard
                    entirely from general use. Long after the war closed, in 1879, the government
                    began to redeem these legal-tender bills in silver and gold.  This was called "the resumption of
                    specie payments." But the fact that gold or silver was to be paid for them had
                    made greenbacks worth as much as coin, and people generally preferred to keep
                    the paper money.
                
                    Confederate money.
                
                The Confederate government also resorted to loans, which, however,
                    became almost valueless when the success of the Confederacy became doubtful. It
                    also issued a great deal of legal-tender money, which took the place of coin,
                    and declined in value until twenty dollars of it would not buy one of gold. When
                    the Confederacy was overthrown, this money became of no Confederacy was
                    overthrown, this money became of no value. The decline in the value of its paper
                    money was one of the greatest difficulties the Confederate government had to
                    contend with in its last years.
                
                    Second election of Lincoln, 1864.
                
                The avoid confusion, we have preferred to tell the story of the
                    military operations of the war without mentioning the political affairs of the
                    time. In 1864 the Republican party nominated President Lincoln for re-election,
                    and Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, a Southern Union man, for Vice-President. The
                    Democratic party nominated General George B. McClellan, and for a time it seemed
                    that the discouragement of the Northern people with the long continuance of the
                    war might elect McClellan. But the success of Sherman in taking Atlanta, the
                    capture of the forts near Mobile by the fleet under Sheridan in the Valley of
                    Virginia, removed all doubt about the result, and Lincoln received all the
                    electoral votes cast except those of Kentucky, Delaware, and New Jersey.
                
                    Assassination of President Lincoln, 1865.
                
                Lincoln began his second term of office in March, 1865, when Sherman
                    was already marching northward 
                    through the Carolinas, and when the close of the war was already in sight. When
                    Lee surrendered, Lincoln's mind was already revolving plans for conciliating
                    those who had been opposed to him, and for restoring the government at the
                    South. But, while the President was sitting with his family in a box at the
                    theatre, John Wilkes Booth, one of a band of conspirators, approached him from
                    behind and shot him, and then leaped to the stage, crying, "Sic simper tyrannis!" which means, "Thus always with
                    tyrants," and escaped. Booth was afterward overtaken, and killed in resisting
                    arrest. Lincoln died on the 15th of April, the day after he was shot; he was
                    deeply mourned, because he had shown himself a man of great wisdom and goodness.
                    Lincoln's assassination was 
                        ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
                    
                    
                        Abraham Lincoln was born in Kentucky, February 12, 1809. His
                            father removed to Indiana when he was a little boy, and while that
                            country was exceedingly wild and rough. The family lived in a half-faced
                            campthat, is, a cabin with one side left out and the fire built
                            out-of-doors, in front of the open side. Abraham endured many
                            privations, and struggled hard to get an education. The schools were few
                            and the teachers ignorant, but Lincoln trained his own mind by carefully
                            thinking out every subject that puzzled him, and he spent his spare time
                            in reading. He worked on a farm, went to New Orleans on flat-boat, was
                            clerk in a country store, learned and practiced surveying, and then
                            studied law. He served several terms in the Legislature of Illinois, and
                            was a member of Congress. He became a leading gained a national fame by
                            a series of debated, in which he was engaged with Senator Douglas in
                            1858. His integrity, his moderation, and his strong speeches brought him
                            the nomination for President, and the rest of his history is that of the
                            country. His death took place on the 15th of April, 1865.
                    
                     sincerely regretted at the South,
                    also, where his kindliness was coming to be known, and where the people, newly
                    conquered, feared that his death might lead to measures of retaliation.
                But the war was closed without acts of mere revenge, and nobody was
                    put to death for a political offense. Jefferson Davis, the President of the
                    Confederacy, who had been captured in Georgia at the close of the war, was
                    arraigned before a court on a charge of high treason. He was confined in
                    Fortress Monroe for two years, when he was released without being tried.
                
                    Release of Jefferson Davis.
                
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                Why did certain English and French statesmen feel jealous of this
                    country? What affair increased this hostile feeling in England? What were the
                    names of the ambassadors sent from the Confederate States in 1861? To what
                    countries were they going? How did they get out of Charleston? At what port did
                    they take passage on the Trent? To what country did the Trent belong? How ere
                    Mason and Slidell taken from the Trent? What effect did this have in England?
                    How was war with England avoided? How was the navy of the Union employed in
                    keeping supplies out of the Confederacy? How did English ships get in with
                    supplies? What prevented the Confederate government from sending ships out of
                    the Southern ports? Where were ships built for it? What effect did the cruisers
                    have on the commerce of the United States? What was the name of the most famous
                    of these vessels? How many ships did the Alabama destroy? In what year was she
                    destroyed? How and where? What claims did the United States set up? To what kind
                    of a court were the Alabama claims submitted? Where did this court meet? What
                    was the decision of the court of arbitration? How did the United States borrow
                    money to pay the expenses of the war? Has all of the debt been paid? What are
                    "legal-tender notes"? Why were they called greenbacks? What caused the paper
                    money to lose value? Why was it still used? What effect did the use of
                    greenbacks have on the circulation of gold and silver? For how many years was
                    there no gold or silver in general circulation? What is meant by the resumption
                    of specie payment? In what year did the United States begin to pay specie for
                    greenbacks? What effect did this have on the value of greenbacks? How did the
                    Confederate government raise money? What is said of the decline  in the value of it legal-tender
                    money? Who was nominated for President by the Republicans in 1864? Who was put
                    up for Vice-President on the same ticket? Whom did the Democratic party nominate
                    for President? What victories removed all doubts about Lincoln's election? Where
                    was General Sherman when Lincoln began his second term? What was the prospect of
                    the close of the war? When Lee surrenderd, what plans was Lincoln revolving? How
                    was Lincoln assassinated? By whom? What was the feeling regarding the death of
                    President Lincoln? what kind of a man had he shown himself to be? What was the
                    feeling at the South regarding it? Was any one put to death after the war on
                    account of political offenses? What was done about Jefferson Davis?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                SEVENTH REVIEW.FROM THE CLOSE OF THE MEXICAN WAR TO THE
                    END OF THE CIVIL WAR.A Chapters XLIII to LVII.
                
                    
                        I. The Trent affair.
                    
                    
                        II. The blockade and blockade-running.
                    
                    
                        III. The Confederate ships.
                        
                            
                                1. Building of ships in England.
                            
                            
                                2. The Alabama.
                            
                            
                                3. The Alabama claims.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Money during the war.
                        
                            
                                1. How the Untied States borrowed money.
                            
                            
                                2. The greenbacks.
                            
                            
                                3. Confederate bonds.
                            
                            
                                4. Confederate money.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        V. The election of 1864.
                        
                            
                                1. Nominations.
                            
                            
                                2. Election of Lincoln.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VI. Death of Lincoln.
                        
                            
                                1. The shooting.
                            
                            
                                2. The feeling in regard to his death.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        VII. Arrest and release of Jefferson Davis.
                        
                            
                                Events following the Mexican War. (XLVIII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Election of Taylor, 1848.
                                    
                                    
                                        Discovery of gold in California, 1848.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                Slavery question in the new territory. (XLVIII.)
                                
                                    
                                        The Wilmot Proviso.
                                    
                                    
                                        The admission of California.
                                    
                                    
                                        Runaway slaves in the free States.
                                    
                                    
                                        Compromise of 1850.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Pierce elected, 1852, (XLVIII.)
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Renewed excitement. (XLVIII.)
                                
                                    
                                        Fugitive-slave law unpopular.
                                    
                                    
                                        Excitement produced by "Uncle Tom's
                                        Cabin.
                                    
                                    
                                        The South also dissatisfied.
                                    
                                    
                                        Attempts to annex territory.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Change in political parties. (XLIX.)
                                
                                    
                                        Decay of the Whig party.
                                    
                                    
                                        American (or Know-nothing) party.
                                    
                                    
                                        Kansas-Nebraska Bill.
                                    
                                    
                                        The Republican party.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                Slavery becomes the main issue. (XLIX.)
                                
                                    
                                        Collisions in Kansas.
                                    
                                    
                                        Buchanan elected, 1856.
                                    
                                    
                                        The Dred Scott decision.
                                    
                                    
                                        John Brown's raid.
                                    
                                    
                                        Lincoln elected, 1860.
                                    
                                    
                                        New free States admitted.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The rising strom. (L.)
                                
                                    
                                        The doctrine of State sovereignty.
                                    
                                    
                                        Seven States secede.
                                    
                                    
                                        Failure of the Peace Convention.
                                    
                                    
                                        Dissensions in the Cabinet.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The storm breaks.
                                
                                    
                                        "Confederate States" government formed.
                                    
                                    
                                        Lincoln inaugurated
                                    
                                    
                                        Fort Sumter bombarded.
                                    
                                    
                                        The rush to arms.
                                    
                                    
                                        The question at issue.
                                    
                                    
                                        The States take sides.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                First campaigns. (LI.)
                                
                                    
                                        Bull Run, or Manassas.
                                    
                                    
                                        Fort Henry and Fort Donelson.
                                    
                                    
                                        Island No. 10.
                                    
                                    
                                        Shiloh, or Pittsburg Landing.
                                    
                                    
                                        Corinth evacuated.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                The struggles for Washington and Richmond. (LII.)
                                
                                    
                                        In the Peninsula.
                                    
                                    
                                        The second Bull Run.
                                    
                                    
                                        Antietam.
                                    
                                    
                                        Fredericksburg.
                                    
                                    
                                        Chancellorsville.
                                    
                                    
                                        Gettysburg.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        Monitor and Merrimac. (LIII.)
                    
                    
                        The Emancipation Proclamation. (LIII.)
                    
                
                
                    
                        Struggle for the Mississippi. (LIII.)
                        
                            
                                Fall of New Orleans.
                            
                            
                                Movements in Kentucky, 1862.
                            
                            
                                Battle of Corinth.
                            
                            
                                The Vicksburg campaign.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Between Nashville and Atlanta. (LIV.)
                        
                            
                                Murfreesboro, or Stone River.
                            
                            
                                Chickamauga.
                            
                            
                                Chattanooga battles.
                            
                            
                                The struggle for Atlanta.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The Wilderness campaign. (LV.)
                        
                            
                                Battles in the Wilderness.
                            
                            
                                Movement by the flank.
                            
                            
                                Cold Harbor.
                            
                            
                                Petersburg besieged.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        The war in the Valley of Virginia. (LV.)
                        
                            
                                Hunter moves on Lynchburg.
                            
                            
                                Early moves on Washington.
                            
                            
                                Sheridan in the Valley.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Sherman's marches. (LVI.)
                        
                            
                                Battle of Nashville.
                            
                            
                                Sherman's march to the sea.
                            
                            
                                Savannah.
                            
                            
                                Sherman's march northward.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Close of the war. (LVI.)
                        
                            
                                Lee's retreat.
                            
                            
                                Surrender of Lee's army.
                            
                            
                                Surrender of Johnston's army.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Naval affairs. (LVII.)
                        
                            
                                Stoppage of the Trent.
                            
                            
                                Blockade-running.
                            
                            
                                Confederate cruisers.
                            
                            
                                Alabama claims.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Financial affairs. (LVII.)
                        
                            
                                Government bonds.
                            
                            
                                Greenback notes.
                            
                            
                                Confederate notes.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Re-election and death of Lincoln. (LVII.)
                        
                            
                                Lincoln re-elected, 1864.
                            
                            
                                Lincoln assassinated, 1865.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Arrest and release of Davis. (LVII.)
                    
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER LVIII.
                Political Events since the Civil War.
                
                    The question of State independence settled.
                
                THE war settled two questions long
                    debated in this country, that of State sovereignty and that of slavery. From the
                    beginning of the government it had been disputed whether or not a State might
                    act in a sovereign way in opposition to the United States government. The war
                    answered "No" to this question.
                
                    The question of slavery disappears.
                
                The Emancipation Proclamation had only abolished slavery in those
                    States and districts at that time resisting the United States government. But
                    the thirteenth amendment to the Constitution, which was adopted at the close of
                    the war, and ratified in December, 1865, forbade slavery in all parts of the
                    country forever.
                
                    But one great power in North America.
                
                A great question of history was also decided by the war. It was
                    settled that the heart of North America is to be occupied by but one great
                    power. Had there been more than one, the resources of the people might have been
                    wasted and their advancement checked by standing armies, and wars happening from
                    time to times.
                
                    Andrew Johnson, President.
                
                Andrew Johnson, the Vice-President, succeeded to the Presidency on
                    the death of Lincoln. There soon grew up a difference between Johnson and the
                    Republican Congress in regard to the measures to be adopted for the
                    reconstruction of government in the Southern States. Congress required, among
                    other things, that every State which had seceded should admit the negroes to
                    vote, before the representatives of the State should be again admitted to
                    Congress. President Johnson did not think  that Congress had a right to refuse admission to lawfully
                    elected representatives.
                
                    ANDREW JOHNSON.
                
                
                    President Johnson impeached.
                
                The difference between President Johnson and Congress, on several
                    points in regard to reconstruction, resulted in an effort by congress to limit
                    the power of the President to remove officers. The Republicans were more than
                    two thirds of each House, so that they could make laws in spite of the veto of
                    the President. They passed a law forbidding him to make removals from office
                    except by consent of the Senate. This law Johnson refused to obey. The House of
                    Representatives voted to impeach the President; that is, to bring him to trial
                    in order to have him removed as unfit to be President. Such a charge must be
                    made by the House of Representatives, and the Senate is the court which has to
                    decide the case. As less than two thirds of the Senate voted to remove him,
                    Johnson remained President to the end of his term.
                
                    Grant elected President, 1868.
                
                In 1868 General Grant was elected President, ad the candidate of the
                    Republicans. The Democratic candidate was Horatio Seymour, of New York. The
                    election turned on the dispute over measures for reconstructing the Southern
                    States.
                
                    The seceded States readmitted to Congress. Negro suffrage
                        established.
                
                During Grant's first administration, in 1870, the last of the States
                    that had belonged to the Confederacy complied with the conditions demanded by
                    Congress. All the States were now represented in Congress for the first time
                    since South Carolina had seceded in 1860. In this same year, 1870, the fifteenth
                    amendment to the constitution was ratified. This gave to the negroes the right
                    to vote.
                
                Various causes produced in the South disorder and bad government for
                    some years. The war, too, had wasted the resources of the country and left the
                    people in poverty. But a better state of things has ensued, and the Southern
                    people have gradually entered on a career of peace and great prosperity.
                
                    Disorders at the South.
                
                In 1872 a portion of the Republicans, dissatisfied with Grant's
                    administration of the government, formed a new party, which they called the
                    "Liberal Republican" party. They nominated Horace Greeley for President. The
                    Democratic party accepted Greeley as its candidate also, but Grant was
                    re-elected by a large majority.
                
                    Re-election of Grant, 1872.
                
                In 1876 the Republicans nominated Rutherford B. Hayes, of Ohio, for
                    President. The Democrats nominated Samuel J. Tilden, of New York. The election
                    was a close one, and the country came near to being thrown into a distressing
                    confusion by the condition of the Southern State governments. In some of these
                    were "returning boards," committees which had the right to revise the election
                    returns, and throw out such as they thought had been affected by fraud or
                    violence. By the votes cast, Louisiana had given a majority for Tilden. But the
                    Republicans claimed that certain districts had been carried by intimidating the
                    negroes and by fraud. The returns from these were thrown out by the returning
                        
                        Disputed election of 1876 decided in favor of Hayes.
                    
                    
                        RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.
                    
                     board, and the vote of the State was
                    given to Hayes. This gave a majority of one. The most exciting debates ensued in
                    Congress, which had finally to decide the matter. As the Republicans had a
                    majority in the Senate and the Democrats a majority in the House, the two bodies
                    could not agree. The question was at length referred to fifteen commissioners,
                    eight of whom voted to give the election to Hayes.
                In 1880 General W. S. Hancock, who had won renown as a brilliant
                    division commander in the Army of the Potomac, was nominated for President by
                    the Democrats. General James A. Garfield, of Ohio, whose distinction was due to
                    the ability he had shown in debate on the floor of Congress, was nominated by
                    the Republicans and elected. Three months after President Garfield was
                    inaugurated, on the 2d of July, 1881, he was shot and mortally wounded by a
                    disappointed office-seeker. Garfield lived eighty days after he was shot, and
                    died on September 19, 1881. His assassin was tried for murder and hanged.
                
                    Election of Garfield, 1880. His assassination, 1881.
                
                
                    JAMES A. GARFIELD.
                
                Chester A. Arthur, of New York, had been elected as Vice-President
                    when Garfield was chosen President. On the death of Garfield, Arthur succeeded
                    to the presidency, and filled out the unexpired term for which Garfield had been
                    elected, according to the Constitution.
                
                    Arthur, President.
                
                
                In 1884 the Republicans nominated James G. Blaine for President. His
                    distinction had been gained chiefly as Speaker of the House of Representatives
                    and Senator from Maine. The Democrats nominated Grover Cleveland, then popular
                    as Governor of New York. After an unusually severe struggle and a very close
                    election, Cleveland was chosen. The Democratic party thus returned to power for
                    the first time since the election of Lincoln in 1860.
                
                    CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
                
                The question which has most agitated politics in Cleveland's
                    administration has been that of the tariff. Very early in the history of the
                    government there were two opinions on this subject. One class of statesmen has
                    maintained that American manufactures should be protected by levying high duties
                    on articles made abroad, in order that the American market may be kept chiefly
                    for the products of American labor. The other class maintains that high
                    protective duties are unjust to the American consumer, 
                        The question of the tariff.
                    
                    
                        GROVER CLEVELAND.
                    
                     and of little, if any, benefit to
                    the manufacturer. They hold that the tariff should be used chiefly to raise the
                    money needed to support the government. This was a main point of division
                    between the Whigs and Democrats before the civil war. The question of revising
                    the tariff has again become the most prominent one in our day.
                What two great political questions did the war decide? How long had
                    the question of the right of a State to act independently been debated? What
                    answer did the war give to this question? How far did the Emancipation
                    proclamation settle the slavery question? When was the thirteenth amendment to
                    the Constitution ratified? What was the effect of this amendment? What great
                    question of history was answered by the war? If there had been more than one
                    nation in the heart of North America, what evil result might have followed?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                Who became President when Lincoln died? On what subject did President
                    Johnson differ with Congress? What did Congress require of the States which had
                    seceded? What ground did the President take in regard to the admission of the
                    seceded States to Congress? What kind of laws did Congress pass regarding the
                    President? Did Johnson obey these acts? What did the House of Representatives
                    do? What is it "impeach" a public officer? What court has to decide on the
                    question when a President is impeached? What did the Senate do with regard to
                    the removal of President Johnson? Who was elected President in 1868? Of what
                    party was Grant the candidate? Who was the Democratic candidate? On what
                    question did the election turn? What is said of the readmission in 1870 of the
                    States that had seceded? How long was this after the first State had seceded?
                    (Subtract 1860 from 1870.) What amendment to the Constitution was ratified by
                    the States in 1870? What did this give to the negroes? What is said of the state
                    of the South for some years after the war? What effect did the war have upon the
                    resources of the South? What is said of the state of things that has followed?
                    What did the Republicans, who were dissatisfied with Grant's government, do in
                    1872? Whom did the Liberal-Republicans nominate for President? Whom did the
                    Democrats support? What was the result of the election? Who was the Republican
                    candidate in 1876? Who the Democratic candidate? What came near to throwing the
                    country into confusion? What power did some of the Southern returning-boards
                    have? What changes were made in the returns  from Louisiana? How large a majority did this give to Hayes?
                    What was the nature of the debate in Congress on this matter? Why could not the
                    two houses of Congress agree? To whom was the matter referred? How was it
                    decided? Whom did the Democrats nominate for President in 1880? For what was
                    Hancock distinguished? Whom did the Republicans nominate? How had Garfield won
                    distinction? Which was elected? What happened to Garfield? What was the fate of
                    the assassin? Who became President when Garfield died? Who was the Republican
                    candidate for President in 1884? How had Blaine's distinction been gained? Who
                    was the Democratic candidate? Of what State was Cleveland governor at that time?
                    What is said of the struggle and the election? How long had it been since there
                    had been a Democratic President? (Subtract 1860 from 1884.) What has been the
                    uppermost political question in Cleveland's administration? What opinions on
                    this subject have been held by statesmen in favor of a high protective tariff?
                    What do those opposed to such a tariff maintain? What old parties were once
                    divided on this subject?
                
                    
                        I. Political questions settled by the war.
                        
                            
                                1. That a State may not secede.
                            
                            
                                2. That there shall be no slavery.
                            
                            
                                3. That there will be but one great power on this
                                    continent.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. The reconstruction period.
                        
                            
                                1. Johnson's administration.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. His dispute with
                                            Congress.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. His impeachment and
                                            trial.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                2. Grant's administration.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. His election.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. All the States
                                            readmitted.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. The fifteenth
                                            amendment.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            d. The disorders at the
                                            South.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            e. The re-election of
                                            Grant.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                3. Hayes's election.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            a. The
                                        returning-boards.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            b. The Louisiana
                                        returns.
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            c. The decision.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Later administrations.
                        
                            
                                1. Garfield.
                            
                            
                                2. Arthur succeeds Garfield.
                            
                            
                                3. Cleveland elected.
                            
                            
                                The tariff question.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study by topics.
                
            
            
            
                CHAPTER LIX.
                Later Developments of the Country.
                WE have seen how the Untied States,
                    which was at first limited by the Mississippi River on the west and by Florida
                    on the south, received before the civil war five great additions to its
                    territory: 1. The old French province of Louisiana, a vast region west of the
                    Mississippi. 2. Oregon (including Washington Territory), by exploration and
                    discovery. 3. Florida, by purchase from Spain. 4. Texas, by the annexation of an
                    independent republic, once a part of Mexico. 5. The Mexican cessions after the
                    Mexican War.
                
                    Additions of territory before the civil war.
                
                To these must be added Alaska, which was purchased from Russia in
                    1867 for a little more than seven million dollars ($7,200,000). This is the only
                    territory we have that does not lie adjoining to the rest of the country. It is
                    partly in the arctic regions, but the climate of Alaska on the Pacific coast is
                    not severe. The killing of seals for their furs is the chief business interest
                    in Alaska.
                
                    Purchase of Alaska, 1867.
                
                The number of States at the beginning of the civil war was
                    thirty-four. By 1876, the hundredth year of the American Republic the number had
                    increased to thirty-eight. Two States had been admitted during the war. The
                    people of the western part of Virginia were mostly on the side of the Union.
                    This part of the State separated itself from eastern Virginia, which was acting
                    with an Confederacy. It obtained admission to the Union in 1863, as a separate
                    State, under the name of West Virginia. Nevada, just east of California, and a
                        
                        West Virginia admitted, 1863; Nevada, 1864.
                    
                     part of the territory ceded to us by
                    Mexico, was admitted in 1864. It is a land of silver-mining.
                In 1867 Nebraska was admitted. It is one of the most fertile of
                    farming States. In the centennial year, Colorado came into the Union. This State
                    lies in the Rocky Mountain region, and has gold and silver mines. Cattle-raising
                    is one of its chief industries.
                
                    Nebraska, 1867; Colorado, 1876.
                
                There remain, when this book is printed, two or three Territories
                    with population enough to entitle them to become States. Dakota is a rich wheat
                    country, and is waiting to be admitted as a whole or as two States. Washington
                    Territory promises soon to be a State, and, when it shall have been admitted,
                    all the Territories on the Pacific coast will have become States. Utah has also
                    population enough for a State. It was settled by people professing the Mormon
                    religion. This religion allows the practice of polygamy, and some of the Mormons
                    have more than one wife apiece. For this reason, Congress has hitherto been
                    unwilling to admit Utah to the Union. The rest of the Territories are in
                    mountain-regions, and their increase in population is rather slow, It is
                    probable, however, that soon after the close of the present century we hall have
                    about fifty States in the Union.
                
                    Several Territories soon to be admitted.
                
                The settlement of the Western States and Territories has brought the
                    white people into conflict with the fierce and warlike Indians of the plains. In
                    the summer of 1862 the eastern bands of the Sioux [soo] nation fell suddenly
                    upon the defenseless settlements of Minnesota, and killed nearly five hundred
                    people. In the war which followed, the Sioux were driven out of the State, and
                    thirty-eight of those captured were convicted of murdering women and children,
                    and hanged.
                
                    Later Indian war. The Sioux massacre in Minnesota, 1862.
                
                
                Though there were no horses in America when the white men came, the
                    Indians of the plains now have a race of small ponies, acquired long ago from
                    the early Spanish conquerors of Mexico. The plains Indians flight on horseback,
                    and are said to be "the best light cavalry in the world." They were in the habit
                    of committing their outrages on the settlements in the summer, when there was
                    grass for the ponies. In the winter, when the ponies were almost starved, they
                    took shelter in remote valleys, and counted themselves safe from attack, on
                    account of the difficulty the white men found in moving wagon-trains. But, in
                    November, 1868, General Sheridan sent General Custer, after the snow had fallen,
                    to attack the hostile Indians in their villages. Custer, carrying his provisions
                    on mules, followed the trial of a war party, under the chief Black Kettle, to
                    their town on the Washita [wau'-she-taw] River, in the Indian Territory, and
                    fell upon the sleeping savages at daybreak, defeating them with great slaughter.
                    This battle terrified and subdued the Indians of the Southern plains, who no
                    longer felt safe from punishment in their winter retreats.
                
                    Custer attacks the Indians in the winter.
                
                
                    CUSTER.
                
                But, in a later war with the Sioux of the Northern plains in 1876,
                    Custer, having attacked a force outnumbering his own, was surrounded and killed,
                    with all the men under his immediate command. In this fight the Sioux were led
                    by Sitting Bull.
                
                    INDIAN WATCHING FOR BUFFALOES.
                
                
                
                    BATTLE OF WASHITA.
                
                
                The Indians were afterward attacked by fresh troops and driven into
                    Canadian territory. They have since been allowed to return.
                
                    Custer killed in battle.
                
                There have been other Indian wars, but, of course, the rash tribes
                    are always worsted in the long run. The irresistible march of civilized man has
                    destroyed the buffaloes, or bisons, and broken down the old life of the Indians,
                    to which they were so much attached. All the hunting-grounds will soon be
                    occupied by farms, mines, and cities. There is nothing left for the Indians but
                    to become civilized or to perish. Good men are now trying to protect them from
                    wrong, and to persuade them to have their children taught to live the lives of
                    civilized people, on farms, owned not by the tribes, but by individuals. Many
                    Indian children are taught at the expense of the government. Some of the tribes
                    located in the Indian Territory have attained considerable civilization.
                
                    Present condition of the Indians.
                
                
                By what river was the United States bounded on the west at the close
                    of the Revolution? How many great additions were made to its territory before
                    the civil war? What was the first? On which bank of the Mississippi 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     did the province of Louisiana
                    chiefly lie? By what claim do we own Oregon and the Territory of Washington?
                    From what country did we purchase Florida? How did Texas come into the Union?
                    What other large cession was made to the United States? What was the sixth great
                    addition to the territory of the united States? How much did the Untied States
                    pay for Alaska? Was this purchase made before or after the civil war? How does
                    Alaska differ from other additions to our territory? What is the nature of its
                    climate? What is the chief business interest in Alaska? How many States are
                    there in the Union to-day? How many have been added since the civil war began?
                    What two were added during the war? What were the circumstances under which West
                    Virginia was taken into the Union? What State was admitted in 1864? What kind of
                    mines are there in Nevada? Two States have been admitted since the war: what are
                    they? What kind of a State is Nebraska? In what mountain-region is Colorado
                    situated? What kind of mines has Colorado? What other principal business.
                What is said of Dakota? What Territory on the Pacific coast yet
                    remains out of the Union? Why has Utah not been admitted before? What is said of
                    the rest of the Territories? How many States will there probably he when the
                    present Territories are admitted, some of them being divided? There are now
                    thirty-eight States: how many more will there have to be to make the number
                    three times that of the original thirteen? What has been the effect of the
                    settlement of the newer States and Territories, with reference to the Indians?
                    What Indian nation attacked the people of Minnesota in 1862? How many did they
                    kill? What took place in the war that followed? What was done with those
                    convicted of killing women and children? What difference is there between the
                    mode of Indian fighting on the plains and that of the Indians formerly
                    encountered at the East? How did the Indians get horses? What kind of horses
                    have they? What kind of soldiers are they said to be? At what time of the year
                    did the Indians of the plains attack the settlements? Why in the summer? What
                    did they do in winter? What change in the mode of war did Sheridan introduce?
                    What can you tell of the battle of the Washita? What effect did this battle have
                    on the Indians of the Southern plains? Who commanded the troops in this battle?
                    What happened to Custer in 1876? Against what tribe of Indians was he fighting
                    when he was killed? What chief commanded the Indians? What happened when the
                    Indians were attacked by fresh troops? What changes will compel the Indians to
                    settle on farms or perish? What is now being done for them?
                
                    Study by topics.
                
                
                    
                        I. Additions to the are of the United Staes.
                        
                            
                                1. Recapitulation of five additions to the area of
                                    the United States.
                            
                            
                                2. The sixth addition, Alaska.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        II. New States since the beginning of the civil war.
                        
                            
                                1. West Virginia.
                            
                            
                                2. Nevada.
                            
                            
                                3. Nebraska.
                            
                            
                                4. Colorado.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. The Territories.
                        
                            
                                1. Dakota.
                            
                            
                                2. Washington.
                            
                            
                                3. Utah.
                            
                            
                                4. The other Territories.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        IV. Later Indian wars.
                        
                            
                                1. The Minnesota massacre.
                            
                            
                                2. The mounted Indians.
                            
                            
                                3. The battle of the Washita.
                            
                            
                                4. The battle with Sitting Bull, and death of
                                Custer.
                            
                            
                                5. Efforts to improve the condition of the
                                Indians.
                            
                        
                    
                
                Let the pupil, by reference to the index, examine all the passages in
                    this book relating to the additions of territory to the United States. Then he
                    will have material for an essay on "The Growth of the United States in
                    Territory." This should be written from his own notes in his own words, and with
                    the book closed, except when a date or other such fact is needed. Another
                    subject that may be worked in the same way is "Indian Wars."
                
                    Composition.
                
                In what part of America is Alaska situated? What foreign country lies
                    between the main territory of the United States and Alaska? On what ocean is
                    Alaska? What State lies west of West Virginia? What river forms its northwestern
                    boundary? What State is between Nevada and the Pacific Ocean? What river forms
                    the eastern boundary of Nebraska? What State south of Nebraska? How does
                    Colorado lie with reference to Nebraska? With reference to Kansas? What
                    Territory is between Colorado and Nevada? Where does Dakota lie with reference
                    to Nebraska? On what ocean is Washington Territory? What foreign province to the
                    north of it? What State lies next south of the Indian Territory?
                
                    Geography.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER LX.
                Population, Wealth, and Modes of Living.
                THE first census was taken in 1790.
                    There were then less than four million people (3,929,214). In 1880 there were
                    over fifty million (50,155,783). It is safe to estimate that, when the census of
                    1890 comes to be added up, there will be between sixty and seventy million, say
                    sixteen or seventeen times as many as there were one hundred years before. The
                    population of this country is already very much larger than that 
                        PRESENT FLAG.
                    
                    
                        Increase of population.
                    
                     of any of the nations of Europe
                    except Russia. It is, perhaps, safe to assume that before the close of the next
                    century there will be two hundred million people in the Untied States.
                The increase of wealth has been yet more remarkable. This is due to
                    the resources of the country, as well as to the enterprise of the people. Wheat
                    from the rich farms of the great interior valley, and meat from the
                    cattle-ranges of the Western States and Territories, are sent across the sea in
                    vast quantities. Gold and silver from the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific coast,
                    petroleum from the neighborhood of the Alleghany Mountains, and inexhaustible
                    supplies of coal and iron in various regions are great sources of wealth.
                    Manufactures of many kinds also enrich the people. The United States is already
                    the richest of the nations.
                
                    Increase of wealth.
                
                In a new country men become inventive, because they have to find out
                    how to do things that they have never seen anybody do before. Americans are,
                    perhaps, the most inventive people in the world. Before the Revolution, Thomas
                    Godfrey, of Philadelphia, invented the quadrant, an instrument to help a
                    navigator to find his whereabouts at sea. About the same time Franklin invented
                    the lightning-rod. There was also a valuable machine invented in South Carolina
                    for doing the hard labor of taking the bull off of the grains of rice. This was
                    run by the ebbing and flowing of the tide. In the middle colonies flour-mills
                    were improved, and little elevating machines invented, so that wheat did not
                    have to be carried to the top of the mill on a man's back.
                
                    Early American inventions.
                
                
                America has since become celebrated for what are called labor-saving
                    machines. One of the most remarkable of these is the cotton-gin. It took so much
                    time and toil to pick the seeds out of cotton that only small quantities were
                    raised for home use. Long before the Revolution, a "gin" for cleaning the cotton
                    of seed had been invented, but it did not come into general use. But, when
                    machines for spinning cotton thread and weaving cotton cloth by steam-power were
                    invented in England, there sprang up a great demand for raw cotton. In 1794 Eli
                    Whitney invented a "saw-gin" for taking the seeds out of cotton. This made
                    cotton-raising profitable, and caused the Southern States to grow rapidly in
                    population and wealth. After the invention of the gin, indigo-culture was quite
                    driven out by cotton-raising.
                
                    Whitney's cotton-gin.
                
                The cotton-gin was the first of a great family of labor-saving
                    machines, partly or wholly invented in this country. Reaping-and mowing-machines
                    were first made successful by American inventors. Thrashing-machines were
                    improved here. All the agricultural machines now used have practically been
                    introduced in the last fifty years. The first really successful sewing-machine
                    was introduced by Elias Howe in 1845. Morse's telegraph (Chapter XLV) came into
                    use at about the same time. The telephone, a recent invention, enables people to
                    hold conversation when far apart. The phonograph record speech on a cylinder,
                    which may be sealed up and kept for a thousand years, when it can be made to
                    repeat the very tones of the voice that spoke the words.
                
                    Some other remarkable inventions.
                
                More inventions of great importance have been made in the lifetime of
                    people now living than in all the ages 
                        Change made by inventions.
                    
                     before. We live in a different world
                    from that of our forefathers, who had only saddle-horses or wagons for
                    land-conveyance, and slow-sailing ships or row-boats for water-journeys. We can
                    go around the world in a great deal less time than some of the first emigrants
                    took to sail from England to America. Our ancestors had neither kerosene-oil,
                    gas, nor electric light. Stoves were practically unknown; for warming themselves
                    and cooking their food, people in old times had only wood-fires in wide, open
                    fire-places, which often chilled the room with draughts of air or filled it with
                    smoke. They carded, spun, wove, and dyed, by hand, wool or flax for their own
                    clothing. Now steam is made to do most of the work in spinning and weaving, in
                    making hats and shoes, in planning boards, and in turning wood. Even delicate
                    little things like watches are made mostly by steam machinery.
                
                    OLD FIREPLACE.
                
                Out of the use of machinery has grown up the factory system, which
                    gathers working-people into towns and sets them to work together in factories.
                    Many people are able in this way to labor on the same piece of work, each doing
                    his own part. This saves time, and makes each man's toil more productive. The
                    building and running of these factories require a great deal of money; so that
                    work is now carried on by two 
                        THE PENNSYLVANIA FIREPLACE, INVENTED BY FRANKLIN.
                    
                    
                        The factory system.
                    
                     classes: First, the capitalists, who
                    furnish the factory and its machines; second, the workingmen, who receive wages
                    and do the labor. This has led to great discussion of the rights of the working
                    people, and those who furnish the money or capital.
                
                    THE DARK LINE SHOWS THE WESTWARD MOVEMENT OF THE CENTER OF
                        POPULATION IN THE UNITED STATES SINCE 1780.
                
                In what year was the first census taken? How long ago is that? Who
                    was President of the United States in 1790? (Chapter XXXVI.) About how many
                    millions of people were there in the country at that time? How many were there
                    in 1880? How many millions will there be, probably, in 1890? How does the
                    population of the United States compare with that of the nations of Europe? What
                    European nation has a population larger than that of the United States? How many
                    people is it safe is to suppose there will be in this country before the close
                    of the next century? What is said of the increase of wealth in this country?
                    What articles of food do we send to Europe? In what part of the country are they
                    raised? From what part of the country are gold and silver sent to Europe? In the
                    neighborhood of what mountains do we get petroleum? What is said of the supplies
                    of coal and iron? Of manufactures? What cause is given for the inventiveness of
                    the American people? What did Godfrey invent in colony times? What is the use of
                    a quadrant? What did Franklin invent? Where was there invented a machine for
                    taking the hull from rice? What improvements were made in the middle colonies?
                    For what has America since become celebrated? Who invented the cotton-gin in
                    1794? Explain the necessity for such a machine? What was the effect of its
                    introduction? What farming-machines were first made successful by American
                    inventors? Within what period have all our present farming-machines been
                    introduced? When was the first really successful sewing-machine brought out? How
                    long ago is 1845? What is the telephone used for? What does the phonograph
                    accomplish? What light has been recently made 
                        Questions for study.
                    
                     generally useful in cities and
                    factories? How do the inventions of our time compare in number and importance
                    with those made before? Tell some of the differences between the life of our
                    forefathers and ours: in regard to means of travel by land; travel by water;
                    means of lighting; mode of cooking and of warming their houses; method of making
                    wool and flax into clothing. Mention some of the things that steam is now made
                    to do. What system of work has grown out of the use of machinery? How does this
                    divide labor and save time? What two classes of men now carry on work together?
                    What do we mean by a capitalist? What discussions about rights have grown out of
                    this system?
                
                    
                        I. Growth of the country.
                        
                            
                                1. In population.
                            
                            
                                2. In wealth.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        II. Inventions and machines.
                        
                            
                                1. Inventiveness of Americans.
                            
                            
                                2. Inventions before the Revolution.
                            
                            
                                3. Labor-saving machines of our time.
                                
                                    
                                        a. The cotton-gin.
                                    
                                    
                                        b. Other farm-machines.
                                    
                                    
                                        c. The sewing-machine.
                                    
                                    
                                        d. Telegraph and telephone.
                                    
                                    
                                        e. Phonograph.
                                    
                                    
                                        f. Electric light.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        III. Change in mode of life.
                        
                            
                                1. Different appliances in out time.
                                
                                    
                                        a. For travel.
                                    
                                    
                                        b. For home-life.
                                    
                                    
                                        c. For manufactures.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                2. The factory system and its effects.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    Study of topics.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER LXI.
                Literature and Art in the United States.
                WE have seen, in Chapter XXXIV, that
                    there was little that could be called literature in the United States before the
                    present century. Franklin's writings, mostly on practical subjects, and the
                    essays of Jefferson, Madison, and Hamilton, on political subjects, were almost
                    the only works of permanent value written in the first two centuries after the
                    beginning of American settlement. Great writers can be produced only where there
                    is a 
                        The first two centuries.
                    
                     community of educated and thoughtful
                    people, such as one can not find in a young country.
                Washington Irving, who is sometimes called the father of American
                    literature, was born in New York in 1783. His first important book was a
                    burlesque, called "Kinickerbocker's History of New York," which is very amusing,
                    and won praise for its author on both sides of the Atlantic. But Irving's most
                    famous work is the "Sketch-Book," in which appear the charming tales of "Rip Van
                    Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow." His "Life Washington" is still a
                    standard biography.
                
                    WASHINGTON IRVING.
                
                
                    Irving.
                
                William Cullen Bryant, born in western Massachusetts in 1794, was the
                    first American who became widely known as a poet. Though he lived to be very
                    old, his greatest poem, "Thantopsis," was written when he was not yet nineteen
                    years of age.
                
                    Bryant.
                
                Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, the most popular and the most widely
                    celebrated of our poets, was born in Portland, Maine, in 1807. of his shorter
                    pieces, "Excelsior" and "The 
                        Longfellow.
                    
                    
                        WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
                    
                     Pslam of Life" are best known. His
                    "Hiawatha" is an epic poem of Indian life, and his "Evangeline" is a narrative
                    poem founded on the story of the expulsion of the Acadians (page 131).
                John Greenleaf Whittier, sometimes called "the Quaker poet," was born
                    in Massachusetts in the same year with Longfellow (1807). Many of his poems
                    describe simple, rural life. Others relate to slavery and the civil war. One of
                    the most charming is "Snow-Bound," a description of winter scenes in New
                    England.
                
                    Whittier.
                
                
                    HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
                
                Oliver Wendell Holmes was born in 1809. He is famous for his witty
                    poems, of which "The Last Leaf" and "The One-Hoss Shay" are two of the best
                    known. His prose work, "The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table," is thought to be
                    one of the brightest books in our literature.
                
                    Holmes.
                
                Edgar Allan Poe, born in 1809, wrote some poems that have achieved a
                    world-wide fame. Of these, "The Raven" is the best known. His weird and
                    marvelous short stories have also a permanent place in literature.
                Ralph Waldo Emerson was born in 1803, in Boston. Some of his poems
                    are greatly admired 
                        EDGAR A. POE.
                    
                     by literary readers; they can hardly
                    be called popular. He is more widely known by his essays as a profound thinker
                    and a writer of genius and poetic inspiration.
                
                    Emerson.
                
                James Russell Lowell was born in 1819. He is best known to general
                    readers by his poems in the New England dialect, called "The Biglow Papers." He
                    is also a great critic and essayist.
                
                    Lowell.
                
                
                    RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
                
                Two American writers of fiction in the period before the civil war
                    attained a world-wide fame. James Fenimore Cooper was born in New Jersey in
                    1783. His novels are mostly stories, full of action and adventure. The most
                    famous are those known as "The Leather-Stocking Tales." A very different writer
                    is Nathaniel Hawthrone, who was a rare genius, and wrote stories of a weird and
                    subtile kind. Of these, "The Scarlet Letter" and "The House of the Seven Gables"
                    are general favorites.
                
                    Cooper and Hawthorne.
                
                Our most famous historians are George Bancroft, John Lothrop Motely,
                    William H. Prescott, and Francis Parkman.
                
                    JAMES FENIMORE COOPER.
                
                
                It is yet too soon to speak personally of the writers who have risen
                    in this country since the civil war. They differ from those who came before
                    them, as American life differs from the 1ife before the war: I. The writers of
                    this later period are not chiefly a group of men about New York or Boston. Every
                    great natural division of the country is represented in the present school of
                    writers. 2: They are not chiefly poets and essayists, like Longfellow and
                    Emerson, Poe and Irving. Our present group of authors give themselves mainly to
                    prose fiction and to humoristic writing. 3. They are remarkable for the zeal and
                    faithfulness with which they study our own life. The manners and feelings of the
                    American people in city and country are described with fullness, and the dialect
                    of every region of our United States is reproduced in the pages of our later
                    authors.
                
                    Literature since the civil war.
                
                American art had its rise in a group of portrait-painters, of whom
                    Gilbert Stuart was the chief. The Conditions of our life were formerly
                    unfavorable to the production of a great school of painters and sculptors, but
                    there has been a large advance in late years, and some very notable work has
                    been done in several departments of art. In the matter of book and magazine
                    illustrations some of our artists have taken a very high rank.
                
                    American art.
                
                What was the character of our literature before the present century?
                    What great writer in the last century left literary work of permanent value?
                    What writers on political subjects produced important works? Why were there no
                    great writers in the pioneer period of the country?
                
                    Questions for study.
                
                What is Washington Irving sometimes called? What was his first
                    important work? What is his most famous book? What tales are mentioned 
                        NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE.
                    
                     as having appeared in the
                    "Sketch-Book"? What biography written by Irving is still a standard work? Who
                    was the first American that became widely known as a poet? How old was he when
                    he wrote his best poem? Who is spoken of as the most widely celebrated of our
                    poets? Mention the two best known of his short pieces. What kind of a poem is
                    Hiawatha? What is the story of Evangeline founded on? What is Whittier sometimes
                    called? What is the character of his poems? Which one is mentioned in
                    particular? Of what is "Snow-Bound" a description? What kind of poetry has
                    Holmes written? What two poems of his are mentioned? What is thought of his
                    "Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table"? Is the "Autocrat" in prose or verse? Where
                    was Poe born? What is said of his poetry? By what is he most widely known? What
                    is said of him as a thinker and writer? By what is Lowell best known to general
                    readers? In what other departments of authorship is he great?
                What two very famous writers of fiction lived in the period before
                    the civil war? Were Cooper and Hawthorne alike in their writings? What kind of
                    novels did Cooper Write? Which are the most famous of his novels? What kind of
                    stories did Hawthorne write? What two are mentioned? What four famous American
                    historical writers are named? What is the first particular in which the writers
                    since the civil war differ from those whose fame was made before? To what kinds
                    of writing do our present writers usually give themselves? For what are they
                    remarkable? In what did American art have its rise? What is said of American
                    art? What of book and magazine illustration in this country?
                Study by topics.
                
                    
                        I. The lack of literature before the present century.
                    
                
                
                    
                        II. Some of the older writers.
                    
                    
                        1. Irving. 2. Bryant. 3. Longfellow. 4. Whittier. 5. Holmes.
                            6. Poe 7. Emerson. 8. Lowell 9. Cooper 10. Hawthorne 11. Historians.
                    
                
                
                    
                        III. The new school of writers.
                    
                    
                        1. Their representative character.
                    
                    
                        2. Their devotion to fictions and humorous literature.
                    
                    
                        3. Their attention to details of manners and speech.
                    
                
                
                    
                        IV. American art.
                    
                
                Books.
                The best way to study literature is in the literature itself. If the
                    teacher can per suade the pupil to read some of the works mentioned in this
                    chapter, and to seek for the charm there is in them, it will tend to develop a
                    taste for good literature, and education can render no higher service than this.
                    For literature of the colonial period, Tyler's "History of American Literature."
                    For literature of the period sine the "Revolution, Richardson's "History of
                    American Literature."
                
                EIGHTH REVIEW.--FINAL CHAPTERS.
                
                    
                        Results of the war. (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        Questions of the right of a State to secede settled.
                    
                    
                        Slavery abolished.
                    
                    
                        The existence of but one great power in North America
                            settled.
                    
                    
                        Johnson's administration. (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        Andrew Johnson President.
                    
                    
                        Question of negro suffrage.
                    
                    
                        Johnson impeached.
                    
                    
                        Grant's administration (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        Grant elected, 1868.
                    
                    
                        Reconstruction of the South.
                    
                    
                        Grant re-elected, 1872.
                    
                    
                        The election of 1876. (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        The disputed election.
                    
                    
                        Settled in favor of Hayes.
                    
                    
                        Garfield and Arthur. (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        Garfield elected, 1880.
                    
                    
                        Garfield killed, 1881.
                    
                    
                        Arthur President.
                    
                    
                        Cleveland's presidency. (LVIII.)
                    
                    
                        Cleveland elected, 1884.
                    
                    
                        Revival of tariff questions.
                    
                    
                        The purchase of Russian territory. (LIX.)
                    
                    
                        Review of the first five additions of territory.
                    
                    
                        The purchase of Alaska, 1867.
                    
                    
                        New States since the civil war.(LIX.)
                    
                    
                        West Virginia, 1863.
                    
                    
                        Nevada, 1864.
                    
                    
                        Nebraska, 1867.
                    
                    
                        Colorado, 1876.
                    
                    
                        Territories about to become States.
                    
                    
                        Later Indian wars. (LIX.)
                    
                    
                        Indian war in Minnesota, 1862.
                    
                    
                        Custer's winter campaign, 1868.
                    
                    
                        Death of Custer, 1876.
                    
                    
                        Present procects of the Indians.
                    
                    
                        Population and wealth. (LX.)
                    
                    
                        Increase of population since 1790.
                    
                    
                        Sources and increase of wealth.
                    
                    
                        Inventions. (LX.)
                    
                    
                        Early American inventions.
                    
                    
                        The cotton-gin and its effects.
                    
                    
                        Other agricultural machines.
                    
                    
                        Sewing-machines.
                    
                    
                        Telegraph, telephone, and phonograph.
                    
                    
                    
                        New modes of life. (LX.)
                    
                    
                        Changes made by new inventions.
                    
                    
                        The factory system.
                    
                    
                        Literature. (LXI.)
                    
                    
                        The first two centuries.
                    
                    
                        Irving.
                    
                    
                        The group of poest: Bryant, Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, and
                            Poe.
                    
                    
                        Emerson, essayist and poet.
                    
                    
                        Lowell, poet, critic, and essayist.
                    
                    
                        Two great novelists: Cooper and Hawthorne.
                    
                    
                        Historians.
                    
                    
                        Later writers.
                    
                
            
               
        
        
            
            
                INDEX
                
                    
                        Abercrombie, James, defeated, 136.
                    
                    
                        Abolitionists, 292.
                    
                    
                        Acadia, map of, 141.
                    
                    
                        Acadians, the, expulsion of, 131; poem founded on it,
                        132.
                    
                    
                        Adams, John, 203; elected President, sketch of, 221 (note),
                            222, 226.
                    
                    
                        Adams, John Quincy, sketch of, 265(note); administration and
                            character of, 266.
                    
                    
                        Adams, Samuel, 164(note).
                    
                    
                        Admiral, the great, 10.
                    
                    
                        Admiral of New England, 22(note).
                    
                    
                        Agricultural machines, 374.
                    
                    
                        Alabama, admission of, 259.
                    
                    
                        Alabama, the damage done by, claims and award, 352.
                    
                    
                        Alaska, purchase of, 366; map, 370.
                    
                    
                        Albany, 46.
                    
                    
                        Algiers, tribute paid to, 228; war with, 229.
                    
                    
                        Alien and Sedition Laws, the, 226.
                    
                    
                        Allen, Ethan, 169(note).
                    
                    
                        America, discovery of by Columbus, 1-4; discoveries before
                            him, 4 (note); its name, 8; supposed to be apart of Asia, 5, 9; first
                            suspected to be a separate continent, 10; colonies sent to, 15, 17, 19,
                            20; beginning of free government in, 30. See Colonies and States.
                    
                    
                        American party, the, 298.
                    
                    
                        Americus Vespucius, sketch of, 1,7(note); his discovery and
                            writings, 7; the continent named for him, 8.
                    
                    
                        Amherst, Jeffrey, capture of Louisbourg by, 135.
                    
                    
                        Amidas and Barlow, expedition of, 13.
                    
                    
                        Amusements, in the colonies 95; Dutch woman skating,
                            illustration, 95.
                    
                    
                        Anderson, Robert, 306.
                    
                    
                        Andr, Major John, capture and execution of, 187.
                    
                    
                        Andros, Sir Edmund, 158, 159.
                    
                    
                        Annawon, 82.
                    
                    
                        Anne, Queen, of England, 124.
                    
                    
                        Annesley, Lord, 106.
                    
                    
                        Antietam, battle of, 320; map, 322.
                    
                    
                        Anti-Nebraska party, the, 299.
                    
                    
                        Appomattox Court-House, Lee's surrender at, 348; map,
                        350.
                    
                    
                        Argall, Samuel, Pocahontas carried away by, 27; his
                            administration in Virginia, 30.
                    
                    
                        Ark, the, and the dove, 52.
                    
                    
                        Arkansa, admission of, 287.
                    
                    
                        Armada, the Great, 14(note).
                    
                    
                        Armor, use of, 86.
                    
                    
                        Arnold, Benedict, 186, 187.
                    
                    
                        Art, American, 381.
                    
                    
                        Arthur, Chester A., his administration, 382.
                    
                    
                        Artillery, American, drawn by oxen, illustration, 189.
                    
                    
                        Atlanta, 335; capture of, 345.
                    
                    
                        Atlantic Ocean, the, called Sea of Darkness, 2.
                    
                    
                        Avalon, 51.
                    
                    
                        Averysboro, battle at, 347.
                    
                    
                        Bacon, Nathaniel, 82; his life and rebellion, 157(note),
                        158.
                    
                    
                        Balboa, Vasco Nuez de, 10.
                    
                    
                        Baltimore, Lord, 51.
                    
                    
                        Baltimore attacked by the British, 253.
                    
                    
                        Baltimore clipper, the, 271.
                    
                    
                        Bancroft, George, 380.
                    
                    
                        Bank, the United States, 267, 268; attempt to re-establish,
                            277; attitude of parties regarding, 298.
                    
                    
                        Banks, Nathaniel P., 328.
                    
                    
                        Barbary states, the, pirates of, 228, 229; map of, 230.
                    
                    
                        Barlow, see Amidas.
                    
                    
                        Barnburners, the, see Free-Soil party, the.
                    
                    
                        Barren Hill, 182(note).
                    
                    
                        Bateau, a river, illustration, 204.
                    
                    
                        Battle above the clouds, the, 334.
                    
                    
                        Bear-flag Republic, the, 284.
                    
                    
                    
                        Beauregard, General P. G. T., 312, 315.
                    
                    
                        Bell, John, his nomination, 302.
                    
                    
                        Bemis's Heights, battle of, 178; map, 180.
                    
                    
                        Bennington, battle of, 178.
                    
                    
                        Bentonville, battle of, 347.
                    
                    
                        Berkeley, Sir William, 157.
                    
                    
                        Bermuda Islands, the 25.
                    
                    
                        Biddle, Captain Nicholas, 192.
                    
                    
                        Bimini, 116 (note).
                    
                    
                        Blackbeard, 101 (note), 102.
                    
                    
                        Black Kettle, 368.
                    
                    
                        Black Snake, the, 217.
                    
                    
                        Bladensburg, battle of, 253; map, 256.
                    
                    
                        Blaine, James G., 363.
                    
                    
                        Blockade of Southern ports, 351.
                    
                    
                        Block-houses, 88.
                    
                    
                        Bonaparte, Napoleon, 222, 234.
                    
                    
                        Bonhomme Richard, the, 192.
                    
                    
                        Bonnet, Steed, 101 (note), 102.
                    
                    
                        Bonne, Daniel, 231.
                    
                    
                        Booth, J. W., 354.
                    
                    
                        Boston, settlement of, 41; siege of, 171; map of, and
                            vicinity, 174.
                    
                    
                        Boston Massacre, the, 165.
                    
                    
                        Boston Port Bill, the 166.
                    
                    
                        Boston Tea-party, the, 165.
                    
                    
                        Bouquet, Henry, 147.
                    
                    
                        Braddock, Edward, his expedition and defeat, 129-131; his
                            death, 131.
                    
                    
                        Bragg, Braxton, 326, 327, 331, 333.
                    
                    
                        Brandywine, battle of the, 181, 182; map, 185.
                    
                    
                        Breckinridge, John C., his nomination, 302; at New Market,
                            340.
                    
                    
                        Brock, Sir Isaac, 242 (note).
                    
                    
                        Brooklyn, 46.
                    
                    
                        Brown, John, 301.
                    
                    
                        Brown Bess, illustration, 195.
                    
                    
                        Bryant, William C., 378.
                    
                    
                        Buchanan, James, election of, 300; sketch of, 300 (note); his
                            attitude toward secession, 306.
                    
                    
                        Buell, Don Carlos, 315, 327.
                    
                    
                        Buena Vista, battle of, 280; map, 282.
                    
                    
                        Bull Run, battle of, 312; map, 317; second battle, 320.
                    
                    
                        Bunker Hill, battle of, 169, 170; map, 174.
                    
                    
                        Burgoyne, Sir John, 178, 179.
                    
                    
                        Burnside, Ambrose E., 320.
                    
                    
                        Burr, Aaron, 227; his conspiracy, 235; his duel with
                            Hamilton, 215 (note).
                    
                    
                        Busy Run, battle of, 147.
                    
                    
                        Cabot, John, sketch of, 8 (note); his voyages, 8-10.
                    
                    
                        Cabot, Sebastian, 8 (note), 10.
                    
                    
                        Calhoun, John C., 267, 269; sketch of, 268 (note); his
                            State-rights doctrine, 304.
                    
                    
                        California, American settlers in, 283; annexation of, 284;
                            its history, 284 (note); its admission, 287, 294; discovery of gold in,
                            rapid settlement of, 294.
                    
                    
                        Calvert, George and Leonard, 51.
                    
                    
                        Cambridge, Mass., command assumed by Washington at, 171.
                    
                    
                        Camden, battle of, 184; map, 190.
                    
                    
                        Canada, colonization of, 116, 117; invasion of, capture of
                            Port Royal, and attack on Quebec, 123, 124; Schuyler's expedition, 123;
                            map, 123; ceded to England, 139; invasion of, in 1814, 252.
                    
                    
                        Canals, 273.
                    
                    
                        Canoes, Indian, 75, 76.
                    
                    
                        Cape Breton Island, fortress on, 125.
                    
                    
                        Cape of Good Hope, discovered, I; rounded, 10.
                    
                    
                        Capital, the national, 213, 222.
                    
                    
                        Capital and labor, 376.
                    
                    
                        Carolinas, the grant of, 53; proposed constitution for, 54;
                            map, 55; colonial government, 151; Sherman's march through, 347.
                    
                    
                        Casco Bay, massacre at, 123.
                    
                    
                        Cass, Lewis, 293.
                    
                    
                        Catholics, laws against, in England, 51; emigration of, to
                            Maryland, 51, 52.
                    
                    
                        Cattle, raising of, in the colonies, 100.
                    
                    
                        Cedar Creek, battle of, 342; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Census the first, 203. See Population.
                    
                    
                        Central America, filibustering expeditions to, 296.
                    
                    
                        Cerro Gordo, battle of, 284; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Chambersburg, Pa., burned, 341; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Champlain, Samuel de, 116, 117.
                    
                    
                        Champlain, Lake, under British control, 178; battle of, 248;
                            maps, 180, 249.
                    
                    
                        Chancellorsville, 320; map, 322.
                    
                    
                        Chapultepec, storming of, 285; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Charging an earthwork, illustration, 313.
                    
                    
                        Charles I, king of England, 53, 157.
                    
                    
                        Charles II, king of England, 53, 57.
                    
                    
                    
                        Charleston, S. C., founded, 84; taken by the British, 184;
                            maps, 190, 309.
                    
                    
                        Charter Oak, the, 159.
                    
                    
                        Chatham, Earl of, 135.
                    
                    
                        Chattanooga, seized by Bragg, 326, 331; battle of, 333, 334;
                            map, 335.
                    
                    
                        Chesapeake, the, defeated by the Shannon, 248.
                    
                    
                        Chickamauga, battle of, 333; "the Rock of," 333; map,
                        335.
                    
                    
                        "Chief who never Sleeps, the," 217.
                    
                    
                        Church, Benjamin, his defeat of King Philip, 82; his methods,
                            82 (note).
                    
                    
                        Church and state, connection of, 200. See Religious
                        Liberty.
                    
                    
                        Churubusco, battle of, 285; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Civil war, the causes of, see Slavery; State-rights doctrine,
                            304, 305; secession, 305, 307; the Peace Convention, 305; formation of
                            the Confederate government, 306; opening of hostilities, Fort Sumter,
                            306, 307; effect of its fall, 307; the issue, the border States, 310,
                            311; Missouri, 311 (note); campaign in West Virginia, 311 (note); Bull
                            Run, 312; battles in Kentucky, 312 (note); first Western campaign,
                            312-315; movements in the EastBull Run to Gettysburg, 317-321 the
                            Peninsula campaign, 318, 319; Emancipation Proclamation, 325, 326; naval
                            operations, 327-326; fall of New Orleans, 226; fall of Vicksburg, 327,
                            328; campaign between Nashville and Atlanta, 330-335; Grant's Eastern
                            campaign, 337-339 the Valley campaign, 340-342; closing operations,
                            345-348; Sherman's march, 346, 347; the Surrender of Lee and Johnston,
                            348; traits And results of, 350-355; the blockade 351, 352; maps, 308,
                            309, 315, 316, 317, 321, 322, 323, 328, 329, 330, 335, 343, 344,
                        350.
                    
                    
                        Claiborne, William, 79.
                    
                    
                        Clay, Henry, 251, 269; sketch of, 268 (note); his nomination,
                            277.
                    
                    
                        Cleveland, Grover, elected President, 363.
                    
                    
                        Clinton, De Witt, 273.
                    
                    
                        Clinton, George, 242.
                    
                    
                        Clinton, Sir Henry, 183.
                    
                    
                        Cold Harbor, battle of, 339; map, 343.
                    
                    
                        Colleges, early, 206.
                    
                    
                        Colonies, the life in: houses, furniture, food, dress
                            traveling, education, amusements, 91-95; farming and shipping products,
                            tool, fisheries, pirates, 98-102; bond-servants and slaves, 104-107;
                            laws and usages, 109-113; wars of, uniforms, methods of fighting,
                            British officers, 142-145; map showing claims to territory before 1763,
                            121; government and laws of, 151-154; restrictions on trade and
                            manufacture, 153, 161, 162; their wars, see French Wars, King Philip's
                            War, Pequot War, the, and Pontiac's War; early struggles for liberty in,
                            156-160; independence of, gained, see Revolutionary War, the.
                    
                    
                        Colorado, admission of, 367.
                    
                    
                        Columbia, S. C., burning of, 347.
                    
                    
                        Columbus, Bartholomew, 9.
                    
                    
                        Columbus, Christopher, sketch of his life, 2 (note); his plan
                            of a route to India, 1, 2; applications for aid, 2, 3; his first voyage
                            to America, 3, 4; succeeding voyages, 5; map showing his route, 7.
                    
                    
                        Compromise, the Missouri, see Missouri Compromise.
                    
                    
                        Compromise of 1850, the, 268, 295, 305.
                    
                    
                        Compromise period, the, 268.
                    
                    
                        Concord, Mass., stores destroyed at, 168.
                    
                    
                        Confederate States of America, the, 306; removal of the
                            capital, 311; money of, 353. See Civil War, the.
                    
                    
                        Congress, the Colonial, 198, 199; the United States, its
                            Constitution, 199.
                    
                    
                        Congress, burning of the, 324.
                    
                    
                        Connecticut, settlement of, 41, 42; the Dutch in, 47; the
                            Pequot War, 80; government of the colony, 151; story of its charter,
                            159.
                    
                    
                        Constitution of the United States, the 198, 199, 200; its
                            adoption, 198, 199; provisions, 199, 200; thirteenth amendment to, 359;
                            fifteenth, 360.
                    
                    
                        Constitution, the capture of the Guerriere by, 246; of the
                            Java, 247.
                    
                    
                        Constitutional Union party, the 302.
                    
                    
                        Contreras, battle of, 285; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Cooper, James Fenimore, 380.
                    
                    
                        Copley, John Singleton, 207.
                    
                    
                        Corinth, Miss., its importance, 314; siege of, 315, 327; map,
                            315.
                    
                    
                    
                        Cornwallis, Lord, 184, 187, 188; his surrender, 189.
                    
                    
                        Cotton-gin, the, 274.
                    
                    
                        Cotton States, the, 304; secession of, 305.
                    
                    
                        Coureur de bois, illustration, 119.
                    
                    
                        Courts, United States, 199.
                    
                    
                        Cowpens, battle of the, 187; map, 190.
                    
                    
                        Craven, Governor, 83.
                    
                    
                        Creek War, the 253, 254.
                    
                    
                        Crimes laws against small, 106, 109, 110, 111.
                    
                    
                        "Crimps," 105.
                    
                    
                        Croghan, George, his defense of Fort Stephenson, 251 (and
                            note).
                    
                    
                        Cromwell, Oliver, 40, 53.
                    
                    
                        Crook, George, 340.
                    
                    
                        Crown Point, 132; map, 134.
                    
                    
                        Cuba, attempted purchase of, 296; proposal to seize, 300
                            (note).
                    
                    
                        Cumberland, sinking of the, 324.
                    
                    
                        Currency, decimal system of, 172 (note); of the Revolution,
                            194; paper, see Greenbacks, and Confederated States of America.
                    
                    
                        Custer, George A., 368.
                    
                    
                        Cuttyhunk Island, colony on 19.
                    
                    
                        Dakota Territory, 367.
                    
                    
                        Dale, Sir Thomas, 26, 27, 30.
                    
                    
                        Danville, Va., 348; map, 350.
                    
                    
                        Dare, Virginia, 17.
                    
                    
                        Dark and Bloody Ground, the, 216.
                    
                    
                        Davenport, Rev. John, 42.
                    
                    
                        Davis, Jefferson, election of, 306; sketch of, 306 (note);
                            his imprisonment and release, 355.
                    
                    
                        Dearborn, General Henry, 245.
                    
                    
                        Debt, the national, 352.
                    
                    
                        Decatur, Stephen, 229, 247.
                    
                    
                        Decimal system of currency, the, 172 (note).
                    
                    
                        Declaration of Independence, the, 172, 173; its author
                            (note), 172.
                    
                    
                        Deerfield, Mass, destroyed by Indians, 124; old house at,
                            illustration, 127.
                    
                    
                        De Kalb, Baron, 183.
                    
                    
                        Delaware, settlement of, 47; captured by the Dutch, 47; the
                            government transferred to Penn, 59; colonial government of, 152.
                    
                    
                        Delaware Bay, exploration of, 45.
                    
                    
                        De la Warr, Lord, 26, 30.
                    
                    
                        Democratic party, the, 267; main differences between, and the
                            Whig, 268; its return to power, 363.
                    
                    
                        De Soto, Hernando, his explorations, 116 (note).
                    
                    
                        Detroit, attacked by Indians, 147; surrender of, to the
                            British, 243; incident of the surrender, 242 (note); maps, 243, 255.
                    
                    
                        Dinwiddie, Governor, 171 (note).
                    
                    
                        Discovery, the, 19, 21.
                    
                    
                        District of Columbia, the, 223; slave-traffic in, 294,
                        295.
                    
                    
                        Doeg Indians, the, 82.
                    
                    
                        Dorchester Heights, 171; map, 174.
                    
                    
                        Douglas, Stephen A., 298; his nomination 302; his debates
                            with Lincoln, 354 (note).
                    
                    
                        Drake, Sir Francis, 16, 284 (note).
                    
                    
                        Dred Scott case, the, 301.
                    
                    
                        Dress, in colonial times, 94; after the Revolution, 210, 211,
                            212.
                    
                    
                        Dress, illustration of, 10, 11, 15, 19, 21, 30, 31, 35, 37,
                            41, 42, 46, 47, 54, 57, 64, 65, 66, 69, 93, 94, 95, 97, 104, 118, 119,
                            142, 143, 177, 178, 179, 186, 188, 192, 193, 194, 206, 211, 222, 228,
                            247, 251, 252, 254, 257, 258, 259, 260, 273.
                    
                    
                        Drunkenness, punishment for, 110; illustration, 112.
                    
                    
                        Ducking-stool, the, 110.
                    
                    
                        Dustin, Hannah, 89(note).
                    
                    
                        Dutch, the, in America, 45, 46, 47; their colony taken by
                            England, 47, 48.
                    
                    
                        Dutch East India Company, the, 45.
                    
                    
                        Early, Jubal, 340.
                    
                    
                        Earth, the notions of its shape, 1, 3; of its size, 2; map of
                            the part known before 1492, 4; first circumnavigated, 11.
                    
                    
                        Education, in the colonies, 95; school-scene, illustration,
                            97; at the close of the Revolution, 206.
                    
                    
                        Election, presidential, mode of, see President of the United
                            States; disputed, of 1876, 361, 362.
                    
                    
                        Elevators, invention of, 373.
                    
                    
                        Eliot, Rev. John, 81 (note).
                    
                    
                        Elizabeth, Queen, 13, 14, 19.
                    
                    
                        Ellsworth, Miss, 274.
                    
                    
                        Embargo, the, 241.
                    
                    
                        Emerson, Ralph W., 379, 380.
                    
                    
                        Enemy, we have met the, etc., 248.
                    
                    
                    
                        England, wars with, see Revolutionary War, the, and War of
                            1812, the; retention of American posts by, 215; 220; seizure of vessels
                            by cruisers of, 220; Jay's treaty with, 220; war of, with France, 240;
                            interference of, with American commerce, 240, 241; Indians incited by
                            agents of, 242; attitude of, during the American civil war, 350, 351;
                            the Alabama claims, 352.
                    
                    
                        Era of good feeling, the, 264.
                    
                    
                        Ericsson, John, 325.
                    
                    
                        Erie Canal, the, 273.
                    
                    
                        Factory system, the, 375.
                    
                    
                        Fairfax Lord, 171 (note).
                    
                    
                        Fair Oaks, battle of, 319; map, 321.
                    
                    
                        Farragut, David Glasgow, 326.
                    
                    
                        Federal city, the, 223.
                    
                    
                        Federal government, position of parties on the power of the,
                            268 (and note), 304.
                    
                    
                        Federalist party, the, 213, 224, 226, 227, 304.
                    
                    
                        Fillmore, Millard, 293; sketch of, 294 (note); nominated for
                            President, 300.
                    
                    
                        Fire-arms of the Revolution, 193, 194.
                    
                    
                        Fireplaces, 375.
                    
                    
                        Fisheries, colonial, 101.
                    
                    
                        Fisher's Hill, battle of, 341; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Five Forks, battle of, 348; map, 350.
                    
                    
                        Flags (illustrations) of New York merchant-ships, 99; of New
                            England ships, 101; the pine-tree, 168; the liberty, of the South, 171;
                            the rattlesnake 172; the Stars and Stripes of 1777, 178; of 1814, 253;
                            the royal, of France, 188; the British, 247; the Spanish standard, 264;
                            the Mexican, 276; the Confederate, of 1861, 307; present United States,
                            372.
                    
                    
                        Florida, Spanish discoveries in, 116 (note); their colony,
                            116; map of the eastern coast, 128; Jackson's invasion of, 254; purchase
                            of, 264; its previous history, 264 (note); admission of, 287.
                    
                    
                        Foote, Andrew H., 312.
                    
                    
                        Forbes, Joseph, 136.
                    
                    
                        Forefathers' day, 35.
                    
                    
                        Fort Donelson, 312; capture of, 314; map, 315.
                    
                    
                        Fort Duquesne, Braddock's expedition to, 130; his defeat,
                            131; map showing his route, 134; taken by General Forbes, 136.
                    
                    
                        Fort Fisher, assault, on, 347.
                    
                    
                        Fort Frontenac, capture of, 136.
                    
                    
                        Fort Henry, capture of, 312; map, 315.
                    
                    
                        Forts Jackson and St. Philip, 326; map, 329.
                    
                    
                        Fort Meigs, siege of, 251; Harrison's answer to the demand
                            for surrender, 251 (note); map, 255.
                    
                    
                        Fort Monroe, naval battle near, 324; maps, 321, 328.
                    
                    
                        Fort Moultrie, 306; map. 309.
                    
                    
                        Fort Stephenson, siege of, 251; map, 255.
                    
                    
                        Fort Sumter, 306; bombardment of, 307; map, 309.
                    
                    
                        Fort Ticonderoga, defeat of the English at, 136, 144; capture
                            of, by Ethan Allen, 169 (note); Burgoyne, 178; map, 180; ruins of,
                            illustration, 169.
                    
                    
                        Fort Washington, capture of, by the British, 177; map,
                        179.
                    
                    
                        Fort William Henry, siege and capture of, 132; map, 134.
                    
                    
                        France, aid of, to America, 183; purchase of territory from,
                            172 (note); partisans of, 214; relations of, with America during the
                            French Revolution, 221; the Directory, 221, 222; demand of, for tribute,
                            222; feeling in, during the American civil war, 350. See French, the,
                            and French wars.
                    
                    
                        Franklin, battle of, 346.
                    
                    
                        Franklin, Benjamin, sketch of, 189 (note), 206; inventions
                            by, 373, 375; his writings, 377.
                    
                    
                        Fredericksburg, battle of, 320; map, 322.
                    
                    
                        Free-Soil party, the, 293, 295.
                    
                    
                        Free trade, see Tariff.
                    
                    
                        Frmont, John C., 283, 284 (note); his nomination, 300.
                    
                    
                        French, the, in America, 116, 117, 118; their weakness and
                            strength, 118; their influence over the Indians, 118, 119; their claims,
                            121; their line of posts, 128, 129; cession of their possessions east of
                            the Mississippi, 139; sale of Louisiana, 234 (note). See France.
                    
                    
                        French wars, the, 119, 122-126, 128-140; maps, 123, 128, 133,
                            141; characteristics of, 142-147.
                    
                    
                        Frobisher, Sir Martin, II.
                    
                    
                    
                        Frolic, the, 247.
                    
                    
                        Fugitive-slave law, the, see Slavery.
                    
                    
                        Fulton, Robert, 271, 272.
                    
                    
                        Gama, Vasco da, his voyage to India around the Cape of Good
                            Hope, 10; map showing his route, 7.
                    
                    
                        Garfield, James A., 312 (note); his election as President,
                            and his death, 362.
                    
                    
                        Gates, Horatio, 178, 184.
                    
                    
                        Gates, Sir Thomas, 25.
                    
                    
                        Genoa, 2.
                    
                    
                        George III, of England, 172; statue of, 175.
                    
                    
                        Georgia, territory of, 62; Oglethrope's design, 63; his
                            colony, 64; property laws in, and dissatisfaction, 64; governments
                            surrendered by the king, and change of laws, 65; map of the eastern
                            coast, 128; form of government, 151; secession of, see Secession;
                            Sherman's march through, 346.
                    
                    
                        Germans, emigration of, to America, 65.
                    
                    
                        Germantown, battle of, 182, 183; map, 185.
                    
                    
                        Gerrish, Sarah, 146 (note).
                    
                    
                        Gettysburg, battle of, 321; map, 323.
                    
                    
                        Gilbert, Sir Humphrey, II.
                    
                    
                        Gist, Christopher, 129 (note).
                    
                    
                        Godfrey, Thomas, 373.
                    
                    
                        God-speed, the, 19.
                    
                    
                        Gold, discovery of, II; in California, 284 (note), 293.
                    
                    
                        Goldsboro, 347.
                    
                    
                        Gosnold, Bartholomew, 19.
                    
                    
                        Government, forms of, in the colonies, 151-154; in the
                            States, see Federal Government, the, and Constitution, the.
                    
                    
                        Grant, Ulysses S., 312; capture of Forts Henry and Donelson
                            by, 312; 314; at Shiloh, 315; at Vicksburg, 327, 328, at Chattanooga,
                            333; sketch of, 337 (note); in command of all the armies, 337; receives
                            Lee's surrender, 348; elected President, 365; re-elected, 361.
                    
                    
                        Greeley, Horace, 361.
                    
                    
                        Green, Roger, 53.
                    
                    
                        Greenbacks, 352, 353.
                    
                    
                        Greene, Nathanael, in command at the South, 187, 188.
                    
                    
                        Green Mountain Boys, the, 169 (note), 257.
                    
                    
                        Greensboro, N. C., 188.
                    
                    
                        Grenville, Sir Richard, 15.
                    
                    
                        Guerriere, the, capture of, 246.
                    
                    
                        Guilford Court-House, battle of, 188; map, 190.
                    
                    
                        Gunpowder, Indian notions of, 85.
                    
                    
                        Guns, matchlock, 86; illustrations, 84, 85; flint-lock,
                        86.
                    
                    
                        Hale, John P., 295.
                    
                    
                        Half-Moon, the, 45.
                    
                    
                        Halleck, Henry W., 126.
                    
                    
                        Hamilton, Alexander, 214; sketch of, 215 (note); his essays,
                            377.
                    
                    
                        Hampton Roads, battle in, 324; maps, 321, 328.
                    
                    
                        Hancock, Winfield S., candidate for the presidency, 362.
                    
                    
                        Hardee, William J., 334.
                    
                    
                        Harmer, General, 216.
                    
                    
                        Harper's Ferry, seizure of, 301, 320.
                    
                    
                        Harpsichord, the, illustration, 206.
                    
                    
                        Harrison, Benjamin, 276 (note).
                    
                    
                        Harrison, William Henry, 242, 251; quoted, 251 (note), 252
                            (note); sketch of, 276 (note); election of, 277.
                    
                    
                        Hartford, Conn., 41.
                    
                    
                        Harvey, Sir John, 157.
                    
                    
                        Hatter, shop of a, in the olden time, illustration, 153.
                    
                    
                        Hawkins, Sir John, portrait of, 107.
                    
                    
                        Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 380, 381.
                    
                    
                        Hayes, Rutherford B., elected President, 361, 362.
                    
                    
                        Hayti, 5.
                    
                    
                        Hennepin, Father, 117.
                    
                    
                        Henry VII, of England, 8, 9.
                    
                    
                        Henry, Patrick, sketch of, 162 (note).
                    
                    
                        Hessians, the, 177; illustrations, 177, 178, 179.
                    
                    
                        Highlanders, in Georgia, 64.
                    
                    
                        Hispaniola, 5.
                    
                    
                        Holding the Line, illustration, 332.
                    
                    
                        Holmes, Oliver W., 379.
                    
                    
                        Home and society in Washington's time, 209-212.
                    
                    
                        Hood, John B., 335, 345.
                    
                    
                        Hooker, Joseph, 320, 321, 333.
                    
                    
                        Hopkins, Esek, 192.
                    
                    
                        Horses in the colonies, 100; pacers, 204; Indian, 368.
                    
                    
                    
                        Houses, colonial, 91; illustrations, 91, 127; furniture of,
                            91, 92; in Washington's time, 209.
                    
                    
                        Houston, General Sam, 278.
                    
                    
                        Howe, Elias, 374.
                    
                    
                        Howe, Lord George, 144; illustration, 145.
                    
                    
                        Howe, Admiral Richard, Earl, 177.
                    
                    
                        Howe, General Sir William, 176.
                    
                    
                        Hudson, Henry, sketch of, 46 (note); his voyages and
                            discoveries, 45, 46.
                    
                    
                        Hudson River, the, explored, 45, 46; plot to surrender the
                            Highlands of the, 187; map, 191.
                    
                    
                        Huguenots, the, 54, 66.
                    
                    
                        Hull, General William, 243, 245.
                    
                    
                        Hunter, David, 340.
                    
                    
                        Illinois, admission of, 259.
                    
                    
                        Imboden, John D., 340.
                    
                    
                        India, route to, by sea, desired, I; plan of western route
                            to, 1, 2, 8, 10, 15; the supposed northwest passage, 11, 45, 46, 98.
                    
                    
                        Indians, the, in Virginia, 21, 31, 32; in Massachusetts, 35,
                            36, 37, 41; treatment of, in Pennsylvania, 59; treaty-belt of,
                            illustration, 60; their clothing houses, tools, canoes, etc., 71-76;
                            reason of their name, 71; changes made among, by the coming of
                            Europeans, 74 (note); illustrations, 71, 90; small numbers of, 76; early
                            wars with, 79-90; small numbers of, 76; early wars with, 79-83; methods
                            of warfare, 85-89; weapons of, 85; stories of defense, 88 (note);
                            attempts to educate and Christianize, 31, 81 (note), 118, 370; influence
                            of the French over, 118; slaughter by, 122, 123, 124, 215; captives
                            taken by, 145-147, 146 (note); war with, in Ohio, 217; in the Northwest,
                            242; later wars, 367-370. See French Wars, King Philip's War, Pequot
                            War, and Pontiac's War.
                    
                    
                        Indian Apostle, the, 81 (note).
                    
                    
                        Indian corn, 99.
                    
                    
                        Indian ponies, 368.
                    
                    
                        Indiana, admission of, 259.
                    
                    
                        Indigo, culture of, 99.
                    
                    
                        Inheritance, laws of, 210, 232.
                    
                    
                        Internal improvements, attitude of parties on, 268.
                    
                    
                        Inventions, American, 373-376.
                    
                    
                        Iowa, admission of, 287.
                    
                    
                        Irish, the, in the colonies, 66.
                    
                    
                        Iroquois, the, their hatred of the French, 118; 122;
                            long-house of, illustration, 119; attack of, on Canadian settlements,
                            122.
                    
                    
                        Irving, Washington, 378.
                    
                    
                        Isabella, Queen of Spain, 3.
                    
                    
                        Island No. 10, capture of, 314; map, 315.
                    
                    
                        Jack of the Feather, 31.
                    
                    
                        Jackson, capture of, 328, 330.
                    
                    
                        Jackson, Andrew, subdues the Creeks, captures Pensacola, and
                            defeats the British at New Orleans, 254; sent to receive Florida, 265;
                            (note); administration of, 266, 267; his attitude on nullification,
                        304.
                    
                    
                        Jackson, Thomas J. (Stonewall), 318, 319; sketch of, 319
                            (note), 320, 321.
                    
                    
                        James I, king of England, 14 (note), 19, 32, 51.
                    
                    
                        James II, king of England, 57, 158; over-thrown, 159.
                    
                    
                        James River, the, 20.
                    
                    
                        Jamestown, settlement at, see Virginia; burned, 158; present
                            appearance of, illustration, 20.
                    
                    
                        Japazaws, chief, 27.
                    
                    
                        Jasper, Sergeant William, 184 (note).
                    
                    
                        Java, the, capture of, by the Constitution, 247.
                    
                    
                        Jay, John, 220.
                    
                    
                        Jefferson, Thomas, sketch of, 172 (note); in favor of
                            religious freedom, 200; his party, 214; candidate for the office of
                            President, 221; elected, 227, 228; his portrait, 225; his seal, 226; the
                            embargo, 241; his essays, 377.
                    
                    
                        Jerseys, the, 57, 60.
                    
                    
                        Johnson, Andrew, elected Vice-President, 353; his
                            administration as President, 359, 360; impeachment of, 360.
                    
                    
                        Johnson, Sir William, his expedition, 132.
                    
                    
                        Johnston, Albert Sidney, 315.
                    
                    
                        Johnston, Joseph E., 312, 319, 334; sketch of, 334 (note),
                            347, 348.
                    
                    
                        Joliet, Louis, 117.
                    
                    
                        Jones, John Paul, 192.
                    
                    
                        Kansas, question of the admission of, 298; struggle in, 299,
                            300; admission of, 302.
                    
                    
                        Kearny, Colonel, 283.
                    
                    
                    
                        Kearsarge, the, sinks the Alabama, 352.
                    
                    
                        Kenesaw Mountain, battle of, 335.
                    
                    
                        Kentucky, Indian troubles in, 215, 216; admitted to the
                            Union, 258.
                    
                    
                        Kernstown, engagement at, 340; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Kidd, William, 101 (note), 102.
                    
                    
                        Kidnapping in England, 105.
                    
                    
                        King George's War, 124-126.
                    
                    
                        King Philip's War, 81, 82.
                    
                    
                        King William's War, 122, 123.
                    
                    
                        Know-nothing party, the, 298.
                    
                    
                        Labour and capital, 376.
                    
                    
                        Lady Rebecca, the, 27.
                    
                    
                        La Fayette, Gilbert Motier, Marquis de, 183; sketch of, 182
                            (note).
                    
                    
                        Lake Champlain, 178; battle of, 248; maps, 180, 249.
                    
                    
                        Lake Erie, battle of, 248; map, 250; results of, 251.
                    
                    
                        Lake George, battle of, 132; under control of Burgoyne, 178;
                            map, 180.
                    
                    
                        Lane, Ralph, colony under, 15, 16.
                    
                    
                        La Salle, Sieur de, 117.
                    
                    
                        Lawrence, James, 248.
                    
                    
                        Lee, Robert E., 319, 320, 321, 338, 339; sketch of, 338
                            (note); his surrender, 348.
                    
                    
                        Legal-tender notes, 352.
                    
                    
                        Legislatures, colonial, 152.
                    
                    
                        Leif, tradition concerning, 4 (note).
                    
                    
                        Leisler, Jacob, his rebellion, 159.
                    
                    
                        Lexington, Mass., battle of, 168, 169; map, 174.
                    
                    
                        Lexington, Mo., attack on, 311 (note).
                    
                    
                        Liberal-Republican party, the, 361.
                    
                    
                        Liberty, civil, in America, beginning of; Virginia charter,
                            30, 32; charter of Massachusetts recalled, 43; government of
                            Pennsylvania, 59; early struggles for, 156-160; established by the
                            Constitution, 199, 200; Alien and Sedition Laws, the, 226.
                    
                    
                        Liberty, religious, see Religious Liberty.
                    
                    
                        Lighting, modes of, 375.
                    
                    
                        Lighting, Franklin's experiment with, 189 (note), 206.
                    
                    
                        Lighting-rod, the, invented, 373.
                    
                    
                        Lincoln, Abraham, his election, 302; inauguration, 306;
                            re-election, 353; his death, 354; sketch of, 354 (note).
                    
                    
                        Lincoln, Benjamin, 184.
                    
                    
                        Literature in the United States, 377-381.
                    
                    
                        Little Harbor, N.H., 42.
                    
                    
                        Little Turtle, chief, 216.
                    
                    
                        Log-cabin and hard-cider campaign, the 277.
                    
                    
                        Longfellow, Henry W., 378, 379; subjects of poems by, 132,
                            168 (note).
                    
                    
                        Long Island, battle of, 177; the retreat, illustration, 176;
                            map, 179.
                    
                    
                        Lookout Mountain, battle on, 333.
                    
                    
                        Loudon, Lord, his failure at Louisbourg, 132.
                    
                    
                        Louis XIV, of France, 117.
                    
                    
                        Louisbourg, Cape Breton Island, 125, 126, 132, 135, 137; map,
                            141.
                    
                    
                        Louisiana Territory, founded and named, 117; attempt to
                            connect with Canada, 117, 118; history of, and its purchase by the
                            United States, 234 (and note); maps, 236; State of, admitted, 258;
                            election of 1876 in, 361.
                    
                    
                        Lowell, James Russell, 380.
                    
                    
                        Lucas, Eliza, 99.
                    
                    
                        Lundy's Lane, battle of, 252; map, 256.
                    
                    
                        Lutherans, emigration of, 65, 66.
                    
                    
                        Lynchburg, attempt to take, 340; map, 344; Lee's attempt to
                            reach, 348.
                    
                    
                        Lyon, Nathaniel, 311 (note).
                    
                    
                        McClellan, George B., 311 (note), 317, 318, 319, 320; his
                            candidacy, 353.
                    
                    
                        MacDonough, Thomas, 249.
                    
                    
                        McDowell, Irvin, 132, 318.
                    
                    
                        Macedonian, capture of the, 247; incident of, 247 (note).
                    
                    
                        Mackinaw, capture of, 243; map, 243.
                    
                    
                        Madison, James, elected President, 241; attitude of, in the
                            War of 1812, 245; sketch of, 245 (note); his essays, 377.
                    
                    
                        Madoc, tradition concerning, 4 (note).
                    
                    
                        Magellan, F. de, sketch of, II (note); his voyage and
                            discovery, 10, 11; map showing his route, 7.
                    
                    
                        Mails, 205, 206.
                    
                    
                        Maine, settlement of, 42; annexed to Massachusetts and
                            separated, 43; part of, claimed by France, 119; map, 120; admission of,
                            259.
                    
                    
                        Manassas, battles of, 312, 320; map, 317.
                    
                    
                        Manassas, the ram, 326.
                    
                    
                        Manhattan, island of, 46.
                    
                    
                        Marion, Francis, 185.
                    
                    
                    
                        Marshall, Humphrey, 312 (note).
                    
                    
                        Maryland, settlement of, 50-52; map, 56; Indian war in, 81;
                            government, 152.
                    
                    
                        Mason, James M., 351.
                    
                    
                        Mason, John, 80.
                    
                    
                        Massachusetts, settlement of, 35, 40, 41; intolerance in, 41;
                            the Pequots, 41; government of, 151, 152; struggles for liberty, the
                            charter dissolved, 158.
                    
                    
                        Massachusetts Company, the, 40.
                    
                    
                        Massasoit, chief, 36, 81.
                    
                    
                        Matamoras, capture of, map, 279.
                    
                    
                        Maumee, Indian fighting on the, 220.
                    
                    
                        Mayflower, voyage of the, 35; illustration, 34.
                    
                    
                        Maynard, Lieutenant, 101.
                    
                    
                        Meade, George G., 321, 337.
                    
                    
                        Mecca, Cabot at, illustration, 9.
                    
                    
                        Merrimac, the, 324; its fight with the Monitor, 325.
                    
                    
                        Mexican War, the, cause of, 278, 279; opening of, 278;
                            Taylor's campaign, 279, 280; New Mexico and California, 283; Scott's
                            campaign, 284, 285; peace signed, 286; maps, 279, 281, 282, 287.
                    
                    
                        Mexico, city of, captured, 285, 286; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Mexico, territory acquired from, 286; map, 288.
                    
                    
                        Michigan, admission of, 287.
                    
                    
                        Mill Spring, engagement at, 312 (note); map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Mines, gold and silver, expectation of finding, 98, 116
                            (note); discovered, 294, 367, 373.
                    
                    
                        Minnesota, admission of, 302; Sioux massacre in, 367.
                    
                    
                        Minnesota, the, 324.
                    
                    
                        Minute-men, 168.
                    
                    
                        Missionary Ridge, 333, 334.
                    
                    
                        Mississippi, admission of, 259.
                    
                    
                        Mississippi River, the, 116 (note); explored and help by the
                            French, 117; struggle for control of, in the civil war, 314, 315,
                        328.
                    
                    
                        Mississippi Valley, settlement of the, 231-235; life in, 232,
                            233.
                    
                    
                        Missouri, debate on the admission of, 259, 260; its
                            admission, 261; struggle for, at the opening of the civil war, 311
                            (note).
                    
                    
                        Missouri Compromise, the, 260, 268 (note), 292; repeal of,
                            298, 299, 305.
                    
                    
                        Molino del Rey, battle of, 285; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Monitor, the, fight of, with the Merrimac, 325.
                    
                    
                        Monmouth, battle of, 183; map, 180.
                    
                    
                        Monocacy, battle of, 346; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Monroe, James, election of, 264; sketch of, 264 (note).
                    
                    
                        Monroe doctrine, the, 265.
                    
                    
                        Montcalm, Marquis de, 132, 138, 139.
                    
                    
                        Monterey, battle of, 279, 280; maps, 279, 282.
                    
                    
                        Montreal, taken by the English, 139.
                    
                    
                        Morgan, Daniel, 187.
                    
                    
                        Mormons, the, 367.
                    
                    
                        Morse, Samuel F. B., 274.
                    
                    
                        Motley, John Lothrop, 380.
                    
                    
                        Moultrie, William, 184 (note).
                    
                    
                        Murfreesboro, battle of, 331.
                    
                    
                        Mystic, Indian village at, burned, 80.
                    
                    
                        Narragansett Indians, the, 81, 82.
                    
                    
                        Nashville, battle of, 346.
                    
                    
                        Navigation, improvements in, 271, 272, 273.
                    
                    
                        Navigation laws, the, 153, 161.
                    
                    
                        Navy, the American, 192; exploits of, 228, 229; during the
                            civil war, 351, 352.
                    
                    
                        Nebraska, admission of, 367.
                    
                    
                        Nebraska Bill, the, 299.
                    
                    
                        Neff, Mary, 89 (note).
                    
                    
                        Negroes, enfranchisement of, 359, 360; alleged intimidation
                            of, 361.
                    
                    
                        Nevada, admission of, 367.
                    
                    
                        New Albion, 284 (note).
                    
                    
                        New Amsterdam, 47; its name changed, 48; a wedding in,
                            illustration, 93.
                    
                    
                        Newcastle, Del., 59.
                    
                    
                        New England, freedom of the colonies, 43; map of the early
                            settlements, 43.
                    
                    
                        New France, 47.
                    
                    
                        New Hampshire, settlement of, 42; joined to Massachusetts and
                            separated, 42; its government, 151.
                    
                    
                        New Hampshire grants, the, 257.
                    
                    
                        New Jersey, settlement and grant of, 47, 57; division of, 57;
                            toleration in, maps, 50, 61; land laws of, 59, 60; union of the two
                            provinces, 60; government, 60, 151.
                    
                    
                        New Madrid, 314.
                    
                    
                        New Market, battle at, 340; map, 344.
                    
                    
                    
                        New Mexico, surrendered to the United States, 283; organized
                            as a territory, 295.
                    
                    
                        New Netherlands, the, 46, 47; capture of, and change of name,
                            48; Indian wars in, 80.
                    
                    
                        New Orleans, battle of, 254; map, 257; capture of, by
                            Farragut, 326; map, 329.
                    
                    
                        Newport, R. I., round tower at, 4 (note).
                    
                    
                        News, transmission of, 274, 275.
                    
                    
                        New Sweden, settled and taken by the Dutch, 47; placed under
                            Penn, 59.
                    
                    
                        New York, discovered and settled, 45, 46; capture and change
                            of name of, 48; its form of government, 151; Leisler's rebellion in,
                            159; map, 50.
                    
                    
                        New York city, settlement of, 46, 47, 48; view in, 48;
                            evacuated. 177; maps of and vicinity, 179, 191; influence of the Erie
                            Canal on, 273.
                    
                    
                        Norfolk Navy-Yard, the, 324.
                    
                    
                        Norsemen, the, supposed discovery of America by, 4
                        (note).
                    
                    
                        North America, continent of, discovered, 4 (note), 9, 10; but
                            one great power in, 359.
                    
                    
                        North Carolina, settlement of, 14, 15, 16, 53; map, 68;
                            Indian war in 83.
                    
                    
                        Northwest passage, the, see India.
                    
                    
                        Northwest Territory, 232; map of, 235.
                    
                    
                        Nullification, 267, 269, 304.
                    
                    
                        Offices, bestowal of government, 266.
                    
                    
                        Oglethorpe, James 62-64; sketch of, 64 (note); defeats the
                            Spaniards, 64, 124.
                    
                    
                        Ohio, Indian war in, 215-217; map of, 218; admission of,
                        258.
                    
                    
                        Ohio River, the, discovered, 117.
                    
                    
                        Old Hickory, 266.
                    
                    
                        Old Ironsides, 247.
                    
                    
                        Opechankano, chief, 32, 79, 80.
                    
                    
                        Opequon, battle of, 341.
                    
                    
                        Ordinance of 1787, the, 232, 258.
                    
                    
                        Oregon, admission of, 302.
                    
                    
                        Oregon boundary, 286, 287; map, 289.
                    
                    
                        Ostend Manifesto, the, 3co (note).
                    
                    
                        Otis, James, sketch of, 163 (note).
                    
                    
                        Pacific Ocean, discovery of, 10.
                    
                    
                        Pakenham, Sir Edward, 254.
                    
                    
                        Palatines, the, 65, 66.
                    
                    
                        Palo Alto, battle of, and map, 279.
                    
                    
                        Parkman, Francis, 380.
                    
                    
                        Parson's Cause, the, 162 (note).
                    
                    
                        Peace Convention, the, 305.
                    
                    
                        Pea Ridge, battle of, 311 (note); map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Pemaquid, Me., 42.
                    
                    
                        Pemberton, John C., 328.
                    
                    
                        Peninsular campaign, the, 318; map, 319.
                    
                    
                        Penn, Admiral, 58, 59.
                    
                    
                        Penn, William, sketch of, 58 (note); in America, 58, 59;
                            treaty-belt given to, illustration, 60.
                    
                    
                        Pennsylvania, colony, 47, 58-60, 66; government, 152; whisky
                            insurrection, 217.
                    
                    
                        Pensacola, capture of, 254; map, 257.
                    
                    
                        Pequot war, the, 80.
                    
                    
                        Periaugers, 271.
                    
                    
                        Perry, Oliver H., 248.
                    
                    
                        Perryville, battle of, 327.
                    
                    
                        Petersburg, attack on, 339, 340, 342; taken, 348; maps, 343,
                            350.
                    
                    
                        Petroleum, 373.
                    
                    
                        Philadelphia, 59, 101; plan to capture, 181; taken, 182; map
                            of, and vicinity, 185; national capital removed from, 213.
                    
                    
                        Philadelphia, the frigate, 229.
                    
                    
                        Philippi, battle at, 311 (note); map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Philippine Islands, the, 11.
                    
                    
                        Phips, Sir William, his expedition to Quebec, 123.
                    
                    
                        Phonograph, the, 374.
                    
                    
                        Piedmont, battle at, 340; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Pierce, Franklin, election, 295; sketch, 295 (note); favors
                            the Nebraska Bill, 299.
                    
                    
                        Pilgrims, the, in Holland, 34, 35; their departure,
                            illustration, 35; voyage, compact, and landing, 35; life at Plymouth,
                            36, 37 (note).
                    
                    
                        Pillory, the, 110, 157; illustration, 156.
                    
                    
                        Pirates, 101 (note), 102.
                    
                    
                        Pitt, William, 135.
                    
                    
                        Pittsburg, Pa., 136; attack on, 147.
                    
                    
                        Pittsburg Landing, battle of, see Shiloh.
                    
                    
                        Plains of Abraham, battle on, 138; illustration, 139.
                    
                    
                        Plattsburg, battle of, 253; map, 249.
                    
                    
                        Plymouth Colony, 35-38; map, 39.
                    
                    
                        Pocahontas, 22, 27.
                    
                    
                        Poe, Edgar A., 379.
                    
                    
                        Polk, James K., elected President, 278; sketch of, 278
                            (note).
                    
                    
                        Pontiac's War, 147.
                    
                    
                        Poor Richard's Almanac, 189 (note).
                    
                    
                    
                        Pope, John, 311(note), 3134, 319, 320.
                    
                    
                        Population, 203, 372; diagrams, 208, 261, 372, 373; map
                            showing movement, 376.
                    
                    
                        Port Hudson campaign, 328; map, 320.
                    
                    
                        Port Royal, S. C., 54.
                    
                    
                        Portugal, King of, 2; ship sent by, 3.
                    
                    
                        Portuguese try to reach India by sea, 1.
                    
                    
                        Potato introduced into Ireland, 14(note); into Virginia and
                            New England, 100.
                    
                    
                        Powhatan, 22, 27.
                    
                    
                        Presbyterians, emigration of, 57, 66.
                    
                    
                        Prescott, William H., 380.
                    
                    
                        President of the United States, office of, 199; method of
                            election, 227, 228.
                    
                    
                        Prestonburt, engagement at, 312 (note); map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Price, Sterling, 311(note).
                    
                    
                        Princeton, capture of, 178; map, 180.
                    
                    
                        Privateers, 145, 249.
                    
                    
                        Proctor, Henry A., 251, 252.
                    
                    
                        Profanity, punishment for, 109.
                    
                    
                        Protection, see Tariff.
                    
                    
                        Pulaski, Count, 183; his death, 184.
                    
                    
                        Punishment, forms of, 109-111.
                    
                    
                        Puritans, 34, 40, 53; illustrations, 35,40,41.
                    
                    
                        Quadrant, invention of the, 373.
                    
                    
                        Quakers, persecution of, 57, 58(note).
                    
                    
                        Quebec, founded, 116, 117; expeditions sent against 123, 124,
                            137, 138; its position 138; its fall, 139; maps of, 141; view of,
                        140.
                    
                    
                        Queen Anne's War, 124.
                    
                    
                        Quider, 123.
                    
                    
                        Railways, 273, 274.
                    
                    
                        Raisin, engagement on the, 250; map, 255.
                    
                    
                        Ralegh, Sir Walter, sketch of, 14(note); charter and
                            colonies, 13-16; anecdote, 16.
                    
                    
                        Reconstruction question, the, 359, 360.
                    
                    
                        Red Eagle, 253.
                    
                    
                        Redemptioners, 106.
                    
                    
                        Religious intolerance, 34, 40, 41, 42, 51, 57, 65, 66, 112,
                            113.
                    
                    
                        Religious liberty in Rhode Island, 42, 113; in Maryland, 52,
                            53, 113; in New Jersey, 57; in Pennsylvania, 59, 65, 113; in Georgia,
                            63, 64; in United States, 200.
                    
                    
                        Republican (Democratic) party, the, 214, 226, 227;
                            State-rights doctrine of, 394.
                    
                    
                        Republican party, the, 229. See Federalists and Whigs.
                    
                    
                        Resaca de la Palma, battle of, 279.
                    
                    
                        Restoration, the, 53.
                    
                    
                        Returning-boards, 361.
                    
                    
                        Revere, Paul, 168(note).
                    
                    
                        Revolutionary War, the, its causes, 161-166; congress of
                            delegates, 164; colonial congress, 166, 168; outbreak of the war, 168;
                            appointment of Washington, 171; colonial constitutions, 172; Declaration
                            of Independence, 172; American reverses, 177; success, 177-179; dark
                            period of, 181-185, 185; aid of France, 183; successes, 187, 188;
                            surrender at Yorktown, 189; treaty of peace, 189, 190; traits and
                            incidents of, 192-194; the navy, 192,193; arms used in 193; 194; poverty
                            at the time of, 194; maps, 173, 174, 179, 180, 185, 190, 191, 207.
                    
                    
                        Rhett, Colonel, 101.
                    
                    
                        Rhode Island, settlement of, 42; its government, 151.
                    
                    
                        Rice, culture of, 99; preparing, 373.
                    
                    
                        Rice, Thomas, 88.
                    
                    
                        Richmond, Lee's retreat from, 348; map, 350.
                    
                    
                        Rich Mountain, engagement at, 311(note), 318; map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Road, the National, 273.
                    
                    
                        Roanoke Island, colonies on, 15, 16, 17; map of 18.
                    
                    
                        Roanoke River, Indian story of, 15.
                    
                    
                        Robinson, John, 34.
                    
                    
                        Rochambeau, Count de, 188.
                    
                    
                        Rock of Chickamauga, the, 333.
                    
                    
                        Rogers, Robert, and Rangers, 136(note).
                    
                    
                        Roger's Slide, 136(note); view of, 137.
                    
                    
                        Rolfe, John, 27, 28, 98.
                    
                    
                        Rosecrans, William S., 327, 331, 333.
                    
                    
                        St. Augustine, Fla., founded, 116; attacked, 124; view of
                            gateway of, 125.
                    
                    
                        St. Clair; General, 176, 216.
                    
                    
                        Saint Mary's, Md., 52.
                    
                    
                        Salem, settlement at, 40.
                    
                    
                        Salmon Falls, massacre at, 123.
                    
                    
                        Samoset, 36.
                    
                    
                        Santa Anna, 280, 283, 284.
                    
                    
                        Saratoga, battle of, 193.
                    
                    
                        Sassacus, 80.
                    
                    
                    
                        Savannah founded, 64; taken by British 184; map, 190;
                            occupied by Sherman, 346.
                    
                    
                        Schenectady, massacre at, 122.
                    
                    
                        Schofield, John M., 346, 347.
                    
                    
                        Scolding and slander, punishment for, 110.
                    
                    
                        Scotland, persecution in, 57.
                    
                    
                        Scott, Winfield, 280, 284, 285; sketch of, 285 (note);
                            nominated for the presidency, 295; at opening of civil war, 317.
                    
                    
                        Scrooby, 34.
                    
                    
                        Seamen, impressments of American, for the British navy,
                        240.
                    
                    
                        Secession of States, 305, 307; map of seceded States, 308;
                            war of, see Civil War, the; question of the right of, 359.
                    
                    
                        Seminole War, the 293 (note).
                    
                    
                        Semmes, Raphael, 352.
                    
                    
                        Separatists, 34, 40.
                    
                    
                        Serapis, the, 193.
                    
                    
                        Servants, indentured, 104-106.
                    
                    
                        Seven Days' battles, the, 319; map, 321.
                    
                    
                        Sewing-machines, 374.
                    
                    
                        Seymour, Horatio, 360.
                    
                    
                        Shannon, the, 248.
                    
                    
                        Sharpsburg, battle of, see Antietam.
                    
                    
                        Shawnees, prophet of, 242 (note), 253.
                    
                    
                        Sheridan, Philip H., 341, 348; sketch of, 341 (note); his
                            ride, 342.
                    
                    
                        Sherman, William T., 334, 348; his march through the South,
                            345-347; sketch of, 347 (note).
                    
                    
                        Shiloh, battle of, 315; map, 315.
                    
                    
                        "Ship, don't give up the," 248.
                    
                    
                        Ships, American, 271, 272.
                    
                    
                        Ships of war, 325.
                    
                    
                        Shirley, William, his expedition, 132.
                    
                    
                        Sigel, Franz, 340.
                    
                    
                        Silk, culture of, 98.
                    
                    
                        Sioux, the, 367, 368.
                    
                    
                        Sitting Bull, 368.
                    
                    
                        Slavery, introduction of, 106; abolition of, in Northern
                            States, 107; attempts of the colonists to keep out slaves, 153, 161;
                            after the Revolution, 210; forbidden north of the Ohio, 232; Ordinance
                            of 1787, 232, 258; the Missouri question, 259, 292; Texas, 278, 292;
                            California, 294, 295; the Wilmot Froviso, 293; Free-Soil party, 293;
                            action of the fugitive-slave law, 294, 295; traffic in Washington, 294;
                            compromise measures, 295; effect of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," 296;
                            preponderance of free States, 296; proposed purchase of Cuba, 296;
                            repeal of the Missouri Compromise, 298; the Nebraska Bill, 299; the
                            Kansas struggle, 299, 300; the election of 1856, 301; the Dred Scott
                            decision, 301; the John Brown raid, 301; divisions caused by, 302; free
                            States admitted, 302; election of Lincoln, 302; the Emancipation
                            Proclamation, 325, 326; forbidden by thirteenth amendment, 359.
                    
                    
                        Slaves, 104; insurrections of, 107; the first trader in,
                        107.
                    
                    
                        Slidell, John, 351.
                    
                    
                        Smith, James, 146 (note)
                    
                    
                        Smith, John, sketch of, 22 (note); at Jamestown, 21; story of
                            Pocahontas, 22, 28; explorations by, 21, 22; his return to England, 23,
                            24; Plymouth named by, 35; his letter to Hudson, 45.
                    
                    
                        Smith, Thomas, 99.
                    
                    
                        Smuggling, in the colonies, 154, 162.
                    
                    
                        Snow-shoes, use of, 87.
                    
                    
                        Soldiers, dress and methods of, in colonial times, 142-145;
                            in 1800, 228.
                    
                    
                        Soul-drivers, 106.
                    
                    
                        South, the life at, in 18th century, 210, 211.
                    
                    
                        South America, discoveries in, 5, 7, 10, 11.
                    
                    
                        South Carolina settled, 54; rice-culture in, 54, 99; indigo,
                            99; rebellion in and representative government, 54, 159; Huguenots in,
                            54, 66; map, 68; secedes, 305.
                    
                    
                        Spain, 3; war with, 124; colonies, 116, 265.
                    
                    
                        Specie payment, resumption of, 353.
                    
                    
                        Spice Islands, the, 8.
                    
                    
                        "Spirits," 105.
                    
                    
                        Spottsylvania, 338; map, 343.
                    
                    
                        Squanto, 36.
                    
                    
                        Squatter sovereignty, 299.
                    
                    
                        Stamp Act, the 163; Patrick Henry's speech on, 162 (note);
                            its repeal, 164.
                    
                    
                        Stamp-Act Congress, the, 164.
                    
                    
                        Standish, Myles, 36, 37.
                    
                    
                        Stark, John, 178.
                    
                    
                        "Star-Spangled Banner, the," written, 253.
                    
                    
                        State rights, under the Constitution, 200; doctrine of, 268
                            (note), 269, 304, 305; settled by the civil war, 359.
                    
                    
                        States, the, after the Revolution, 197, 198; confederation
                            of, 198; constitutional convention, 198; Constitution adopted, 199;
                    
                    
                    
                        life in, 203-207, 209-212; additions to territory, 366;
                            increase, see Population; maps, 207, 263; wealth, 373.
                    
                    
                        Steam, use of, 375.
                    
                    
                        Steamboats, 272.
                    
                    
                        Steuben, Baron, 183.
                    
                    
                        Stocks, the 110.
                    
                    
                        Stone River, battle of, 331.
                    
                    
                        Stonewall Jackson, see Jackson, Thomas J.
                    
                    
                        Stony Point, capture of, 184, 217 (note); map, 191.
                    
                    
                        Straits of Magellan, 10.
                    
                    
                        Stuart, Gilbert, 207, 381.
                    
                    
                        Stuyvesant, Peter, 47, 48.
                    
                    
                        Sumter, Thomas, 185.
                    
                    
                        Sunday laws, in New England, 109.
                    
                    
                        Susan Constant, the, 19.
                    
                    
                        Susquehannah Indians, the, 82.
                    
                    
                        Swamp fight, the, 81.
                    
                    
                        Swedes, colony of, 47.
                    
                    
                        Tariff question, the, 363, 364.
                    
                    
                        Tarleton, Banastre, 187.
                    
                    
                        Taxation without representation, 163 (and note).
                    
                    
                        Taylor, Zachary, his successes in Mexico, 279, 280, 284;
                            elected President, 293; sketch of, 293 (note); his death, 293.
                    
                    
                        Tea, tax on, 165, 166.
                    
                    
                        Tecumseh, 242 (note); 251, 252, 253; his brother, the
                            Prophet, 242 (note), 253.
                    
                    
                        Telegraph, the electric, 274; appropriation for an
                            experimental, 274 (note).
                    
                    
                        Telephone, the, 374.
                    
                    
                        Tenantry, system of, 104.
                    
                    
                        Tennessee admitted, 258.
                    
                    
                        Terrapin policy, 241.
                    
                    
                        Texas, annexation of 278; boundary dispute, 279, 283;
                            admission of, 287; results of annexation, 292; diagram showing relative
                            size of, 281; maps, 281, 288.
                    
                    
                        Thames, battle of the, 252; map, 255.
                    
                    
                        Thomas, George H., 312 (note), 331, 333, 334, 346.
                    
                    
                        Thoroughfare Gap, 320; map, 322.
                    
                    
                        Ticonderoga, see Fort Ticonderoga.
                    
                    
                        Tilden, Samuel J., 361.
                    
                    
                        Tippecanoe, battle of, 242; map 244.
                    
                    
                        Tobacco, first use of, in England, 16; illustrations, 16, 17;
                            raised in Virginia, 28, 98; used money, 98.
                    
                    
                        Trapanning, 105.
                    
                    
                        Travel and transportation, in the colonies, 94-96;
                            illustrations, 94, 96; at the close of the Revolution, 204, 205; modes
                            of, 271, 375.
                    
                    
                        Treaty, Jay's, 220.
                    
                    
                        Treaty of Ghent, the, 255.
                    
                    
                        Treaty of Paris, the, 189, 190.
                    
                    
                        Trent affair, the, 351.
                    
                    
                        Trenton, battle of, 177; map, 180.
                    
                    
                        Tripoli, war with, 228, 229.
                    
                    
                        Troops, quartering of, on the colonies, 164.
                    
                    
                        Tuscaroras, the, 83.
                    
                    
                        Tyler, John, administration of, 277 (note); President of
                            Peace Convention, 305.
                    
                    
                        " Uncle Tom's Cabin, " 296.
                    
                    
                        United States, the, capture of the Macedonian by the,
                        247.
                    
                    
                        Utah Territory, 367.
                    
                    
                        Valley Forge, the army at, 182; map, 185.
                    
                    
                        Valley of Virginia, campaign in, 340-342.
                    
                    
                        Van Buren, Martin, elected President, 269; his
                            administration. 276; his renomination, 276, 293.
                    
                    
                        Van Dorn, Earl, 327.
                    
                    
                        Vera Cruz, 280; siege of, 284; map, 287.
                    
                    
                        Vermont, admission of, 257.
                    
                    
                        Vicksburg, siege of, 326-328; map, 330.
                    
                    
                        Virginia, its name, 14; original extent, 14, 50; first colony
                            within its present limits, 19; Jamestown founded, 20; early history,
                            21-32; ownership of land in, 29, 30; the Great Charter, and the
                            liberties it granted, 30-32; women sent to, 31; Indian war in, 79, 81,
                            82; cultivation of tobacco, 28, 98; money of, 98; its form of
                            government, 151; struggles for liberty in, 156, 158; Bacon's rebellion,
                            82, 157 (note), 158.
                    
                    
                        Virginia, the, 324.
                    
                    
                        Virginia Company, the 19, 30, 32, 156.
                    
                    
                        Wagons and carriages of Washington's time, 2005.
                    
                    
                        Walker, William, 296.
                    
                    
                        Wallabout, 46.
                    
                    
                        Wallace, Lew, 340.
                    
                    
                        Warfare, Indian methods of, 86, 87; methods of the settlers,
                            86-89; stories of defense, 88 (note); escapes, 89 (note).
                    
                    
                    
                        War of 1812, the, causes of, 240-242; declared, 242; English
                            successes, 243; attempt to invade Canada, 245; naval victories of the
                            Americans, 246, 247; defeat of the Chesapeake, 248; battle of Lake Erie,
                            248, 251; operations of privateers, 249; the river Raisin, 250; Forts
                            Meigs and Stephenson, 251; battle of the Thames, 252; invasion of
                            Canada, Lundy's Lane, 252; British attempt at invasion by way of Lake
                            Champlain, 252; by way of Chesapeake, Bay, 253; battle of Bladensburg,
                            253; Washington, 253; Baltimore, 253; the Creeks, 253, 254; Pensacola
                            and New Orleans, 254; treaty of peace, 255; effect on emigration,
                        259.
                    
                    
                        Wars, colonial, 122-147.
                    
                    
                        War-ships, ancient, illustrations, 1, 2. See Ships of
                        war.
                    
                    
                        Washington, George, early life of, 171 (note); his embassy to
                            the French, 129; incidents, 129 (note); expedition to Fort Duquesne,
                            129; at Braddock's defeat, 130, 131; made commander of the army, 171;
                            siege of Boston, 171; defeat on Long Island, 177; retreat and victories
                            at Trenton and Princeton, 177; retreat and victories at Trenton and
                            Princeton, 177, 178; Brandywine, Germantown, Valley Forge, and Monmouth,
                            181-183; Yorktown, 188; portrait of, 202; resignation of the command by,
                            190; President of Constitutional Convention, 198; his election and
                            inauguration as President, 203; re-election, 213; his farewell and
                            death, 218; Irving's life of, 378.
                    
                    
                        Washington, capital removed to, 222; burned, 253; Early's
                            attempt on, 340.
                    
                    
                        Washington Territory, 367; boundary of, 286, 287; map,
                        289.
                    
                    
                        Wasp, the, 247.
                    
                    
                        Wayne, Anthony, 184; sent against the Indians, 217; sketch
                            of, 217 (note), 220.
                    
                    
                        Weathersford, chief, 253, 254.
                    
                    
                        Webster, Daniel, 269; sketch, 268 (note).
                    
                    
                        West, Benjamin, 207.
                    
                    
                        West Indies, the, discovered, 4; supposition as to, 5.
                    
                    
                        Westoes, the, 83.
                    
                    
                        West Virginia, formation, 311; campaign in, 311(note);
                            admission, 366.
                    
                    
                        Wethersfield, Conn., 41.
                    
                    
                        Wheat, 99.
                    
                    
                        Whig party, the, 267; main difference between, and the
                            Democratic, 268, 298.
                    
                    
                        Whisky insurrection, the, 217.
                    
                    
                        White, John, 17.
                    
                    
                        White and Jennings, expedition of, 146.
                    
                    
                        Whitney, Eli, 374.
                    
                    
                        Whittier, John G., 379.
                    
                    
                        Wilderness, battles of the, 338; map, 343.
                    
                    
                        Wilkes, Charles, 351.
                    
                    
                        William III, of England, 38, 122; Prince of Orange, 159.
                    
                    
                        Williams, Roger, 42.
                    
                    
                        Williamsburg, battle of, 318; map, 321.
                    
                    
                        Wilmington, N. C., 347.
                    
                    
                        Wilmot Proviso, the, 293.
                    
                    
                        Wilson's Creek, battle of, 311(note); map, 316.
                    
                    
                        Winchester, battle of, 341; map, 344.
                    
                    
                        Winchester, James, succeeds Hull, 250; his defeat on the
                            Raisin, 250, 251.
                    
                    
                        Windsor, Conn., 41.
                    
                    
                        Wine, production of, 98.
                    
                    
                        Winthrop, John, 41; sketch, 41(note).
                    
                    
                        Wisconsin, admission of, 287.
                    
                    
                        Witchcraft, belief in, 111, 112.
                    
                    
                        Wolfe, James, at Quebec, 138, 139.
                    
                    
                        Worley, Richard, 101.
                    
                    
                        Writs of assistance, 162; Otis's speech on, 163 (note).
                    
                    
                        Yamassee Indians, the, 83.
                    
                    
                        Yeardley, Sir George, 31.
                    
                    
                        York, Duke of, 48, 57.
                    
                    
                        Yorktown, battle of, 188, 189; map, 191; siege of, 318.
                    
                    
                        Zollikoffer, Felix K., 312 (note).
                    
                
                THE END.
            
        
    
