
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. The Port of Missing Men: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2431
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
                THE PORT OF MISSING MEN
                
            
            
            
                
                    Shirley Claiborne
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE PORT OF MISSING MEN
                
                By
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON Author of The House of a
                    Thousand Candles The Main Chance Zelda Dameron etc.
                With Illustrations by CLARENCE F. UNDERWOOD
                
                    Then Sir Pellinore put off his armour; then a little afore midnight they
                        heard the trotting of an horse. Be ye still, said King Pellinore,
                        for we shall hear of some adventure.Malory.
                
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT 1907 THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
                     JANUARY
                
            
            
            
                To the Memory of Herman Rountze
            
            
            
                THE SHINING ROAD
                
                    Come, sweetheart, let us ride away beyond the city's
                        bound,
                    And seek what pleasant lands across the distant hills are found.
                    There is a golden light that shines beyond the verge of dawn,
                    And there are happy highways leading on and always on;
                    So, sweetheart, let us mount and ride, with never a backward
                        glance,
                    To find the pleasant shelter of the Valley of Romance.
                    Before us, down the golden road, floats dust from charging steeds,
                    Where two adventurous companies clash loud in mighty deeds;
                    And from the tower that stands alert like some tall, beckoning
                        pine,
                    E'en now, my heart, I see afar the lights of welcome
                        shine!
                    So loose the rein and cheer the steed and let us race away
                    To seek the lands that lie beyond the Borders of To-day,
                    
                    Draw rein and rest a moment here in this cool vale of peace;
                    The race half-run, the goal half-won, half won the sure release!
                    To right and left are flowery fields, and brooks go singing down
                    To mock the sober folk who still are prisoned in the town.
                    Now to the trail again, dear heart; my arm and blade are true,
                    And on some plain ere night descend I'll break a lance for
                        you!
                    O sweetheart, it is good to find the pathway shining clear!
                    The road is broad, the hope is sure, and you are near and dear!
                    So loose the rein and cheer the steed and let us race away
                    To seek the lands that lie beyond the borders of To-day. Oh, we shall
                        hear at last, my heart, a cheering welcome cried
                    As o'er a clattering drawbridge through the Gate of Dreams we
                        ride!
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I "Events, Events" 1
                        
                    II The Claibornes, of Washington 20
                        
                    III Dark Tidings 37
                        
                    IV John Armitage a Prisoner 50
                        
                    V A Lost Cigarette Case 64
                        
                    VI Toward the Western Stars 77
                        
                    VII On the Dark Deck 89
                        
                    VIII "The King Is Dead; Long Live the King" 104
                        
                    IX "This Is America, Mr. Armitage" 121
                        
                    X John Armitage Is Shadowed 136
                        
                    XI The Toss of a Napkin 150
                        
                    XII A Camp in the Mountains 161
                        
                    XIII The Lady of the Pergola 180
                        
                    XIV An Enforced Interview 193
                        
                    XV Shirley Learns a Secret 202
                        
                    XVI Narrow Margins 216
                        
                    XVII A Gentleman in Hiding 225
                        
                    XVIII An Exchange of Messages 233
                        
                    XIX Captain Claiborne on Duty 247
                        
                    XX The First Ride Together 258
                        
                    XXI The Comedy of a Sheepfold 276
                        
                    XXII The Prisoner at the Bungalow 293
                        
                    XXIII The Verge of Morning 314
                        
                    XXIV The Attack in the Road 325
                        
                    XXV The Port of Missing Men 338
                        
                    XXVI "Who Are You, John Armitage?" 355
                        
                    XXVII Decent Burial 374
                        
                    XXVIII John Armitage 385
                        
                
            
            
            
                THE PORT OF MISSING MEN
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE PORT OF MISSING MEN
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    "EVENTS, EVENTS"
                    
                        
                            Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back
                            Wherein he puts alms for oblivion.
                            
                                Troilus and Cressida.
                            
                        
                    
                    "The knowledge that you're alive gives me no
                        pleasure," growled the grim old Austrian premier.
                    "Thank you!" laughed John Armitage, to whom he had spoken.
                        "You have lost none of your old amiability; but for a renowned
                        diplomat, you are remarkably frank. When I called on you in Paris, a year
                        ago, I was able to render youI believe you admitted ita slight
                        service."
                    
                    Count Ferdinand von Stroebel bowed slightly, but did not take his eyes from
                        the young man who sat opposite him in his rooms at the Hotel Monte Rosa in
                        Geneva. On the table between them stood an open despatch box, and about it
                        lay a number of packets of papers which the old gentleman, with
                        characteristic caution, had removed to his own side of the table before
                        admitting his caller. He was a burly old man, with massive shoulders and a
                        great head thickly covered with iron-gray hair.
                    He trusted no one, and this accounted for his presence in Geneva in March, of
                        the year 1903, whither he had gone to receive the report of the secret
                        agents whom he had lately despatched to Paris on an errand of peculiar
                        delicacy. The agents had failed in their mission, and Von Stroebel was not
                        tolerant of failure. Perhaps if he had known that within a week the tapers
                        would burn about his bier in Saint Stephen's Cathedral, at Vienna,
                        while his life and public services would be estimated in varying degrees of
                        admiration or execration by the newspapers of Europe, he might not have
                        dealt so harshly with his hard-worked spies.
                    It was not often that the light in the old man's eyes was as gentle
                        as now. He had sent his secret agents away and was to return to Vienna on
                        the following day. The  young man whom he now
                        entertained in his apartments received his whole attention. He picked up the
                        card which lay on the table and scrutinized it critically, while his eyes
                        lighted with sudden humor.
                    The card was a gentleman's carte de visite, and
                        bore the name John Armitage.
                    "I believe this is the same alias you were using when I saw you in
                        Paris. Where did you get it?" demanded the minister.
                    "I rather liked the sound of it, so I had the cards made,"
                        replied the young man. "Besides, it's English, and I pass
                        readily for an Englishman. I have quite got used to it."
                    "Which is not particularly creditable; but it's probably
                        just as well so."
                    He drew closer to the table, and his keen old eyes snapped with the
                        intentness of his thought. The hands he clasped on the table were those of
                        age, and it was pathetically evident that he folded them to hide their
                        slight palsy.
                    "I hope you are quite well," said Armitage kindly.
                    "I am not. I am anything but well. I am an old man, and I have had
                        no rest for twenty years."
                    "It is the penalty of greatness. It is Austria's good  fortune that you have devoted yourself to the
                        affairs of government. I have readonly to-day, in the Contemporary Reviewan admirable tribute to your sagacity in
                        handling the Servian affair. Your work was masterly. I followed it from the
                        beginning with deepest interest."
                    The old gentleman bowed half-unconsciously, for his thoughts were far away,
                        as the vague stare in his small, shrewd eyes indicated.
                    "But you are here for restone comes to Geneva at this season for
                        nothing else."
                    "What brings you here?" asked the old man with sudden
                        energy. "If the papers you gave me in Paris are forgeries and you
                        are waiting"
                    "Yes; assuming that, what should I be waiting for?"
                    "If you are waiting for eventsfor events! If you expect something to
                        happen!"
                    Armitage laughed at the old gentleman's earnest manner, asked if he
                        might smoke, and lighted a cigarette.
                    "Waiting doesn't suit me. I thought you understood that. I
                        was not born for the waiting list. You see, I have strong handsand my wits
                        arelet us sayaverage!"
                    Von Stroebel clasped his own hands together more firmly and bent toward
                        Armitage searchingly.
                    
                    "Is it true"he turned again and glanced about"is
                        it positively true that the Archduke Karl is dead?"
                    "Yes; quite true. There is absolutely no doubt of it," said
                        Armitage, meeting the old man's eyes steadily.
                    "The report that he is still living somewhere in North America is
                        persistent. We hear it frequently in Vienna; I have heard it since you told
                        me that story and gave me those papers in Paris last year."
                    "I am aware of that," replied John Armitage; "but
                        I told you the truth. He died in a Canadian lumber camp. We were in the
                        north huntingyou may recall that he was fond of that sort of
                        thing."
                    "Yes, I remember; there was nothing else he did so well,"
                        growled Von Stroebel.
                    "And the packet I gave you"
                    The old man nodded.
                    "that packet contained the Archduke Karl's sworn
                        arraignment of his wife. It is of great importance, indeed, to Francis, his
                        worthless son, or supposed son, who may present himself for coronation one
                        of these days!"
                    "Not with Karl appearing in all parts of the world, never quite
                        dead, never quite aliveand his son Frederick Augustus lurking with him in
                        the shadows. Who knows whether they are dead?"
                    
                    "I am the only person on earth in a position to make that
                        clear," said John Armitage.
                    "Then you should give me the documents."
                    "No; I prefer to keep them. I assure you that I have sworn proof of
                        the death of the Archduke Karl, and of his son Frederick Augustus. Those
                        papers are in a box in the Bronx Loan and Trust Company, in New York
                        City."
                    "I should have them; I must have them!"
                        thundered the old man.
                    "In due season; but not just now. In fact, I have regretted parting
                        with that document I gave you in Paris. It is safer in America than in
                        Vienna. If you please, I should like to have it again, sir."
                    The palsy in the old man's hands had increased, and he strove to
                        control his agitation; but fear had never been reckoned among his
                        weaknesses, and he turned stormily upon Armitage.
                    "That packet is lost, I tell you!" he blurted, as though it
                        were something that he had frequently explained before. "It was
                        stolen from under my very nose only a month ago! That's what
                        I'm here formy agents are after the thief, and I came to Geneva to
                        meet them, to find out why they have not caught him. Do you imagine  that I travel for pleasure at my age, Mr. John
                        Armitage?"
                    Count von Stroebel's bluster was merely a cloak to hide his
                        confusiona cloak, it may be said, to which he did not often resort; but in
                        this case he watched Armitage warily. He clearly expected some outburst of
                        indignation from the young man, and he was unfeignedly relieved when
                        Armitage, after opening and closing his eyes quickly, reached for a fresh
                        cigarette and lighted it with the deft case of habit.
                    "The packet has been stolen," he observed calmly;
                        "whom do you suspect of taking it?"
                    The old man leaned upon the table heavily.
                    "That amiable Francis"
                    "The suggestion is not dismaying. Francis would not know an
                        opportunity if it offered."
                    "But his mothershe is the devil!" blurted the old man.
                    "Pray drop that," said Armitage in a tone that caused the
                        old man to look at him with a new scrutiny. "I want the paper back
                        for the very reason that it contains that awful indictment of her. I have
                        been uncomfortable ever since I gave it to you; and I came to ask you for it
                        that I might keep it safe in my own hands. But 
                        the document is lost,am I to understand that Francis has it?"
                    "Not yet! But Rambaud has it, and Rambaud and Francis are as thick
                        as thieves."
                    "I don't know Rambaud. The name is
                        unfamiliar."
                    "He has a dozen namesone for every capital. He even operates in
                        Washington, I have heard. He's a blackmailer, who aims higha broker
                        in secrets, a scandal-peddler. He's a bad lot, I tell you.
                        I've had my best men after him, and they've just been here
                        to report another failure. If you have nothing better to do" began
                        the old man.
                    "Yes; that packet must be recovered," answered Armitage.
                        "If your agents have failed at the job it may be worth my while to
                        look for it."
                    His quiet acceptance of the situation irritated the minister.
                    "You entertain me, John Armitage! You speak of that packet as though
                        it were a pound of tea. Francis and his friends, Winkelried and Rambaud, are
                        not chasers of fireflies, I would have you know. If the Archduke and his son
                        are dead, then a few more deaths and Francis would rule the
                        Empire."
                    John Armitage and Count von Stroebel stared at each other in silence.
                    
                    "Events! Events!" muttered the old man presently, and he
                        rested one of his hands upon the despatch box, as though it were a symbol of
                        authority and power.
                    "Events!" the young man murmured.
                    "Events!" repeated Count von Stroebel without humor.
                        "A couple of deaths and there you see him, on the ground and quite
                        ready. Karl was a genius, therefore he could not be king. He threw away
                        about five hundred years of work that had been done for him by other
                        peopleand he cajoled you into sharing his exile. You threw away your life
                        for him! Bah! But you seem sane enough!"
                    The prime minister concluded with his rough burr; and Armitage laughed
                        outright.
                    "Why the devil don't you go to Vienna and set yourself up
                        like a gentleman?" demanded the premier.
                    "Like a gentleman?" repeated Armitage. "It is too
                        late. I should die in Vienna in a week. Moreover, I am
                        dead, and it is well, when one has attained that beatific advantage, to stay
                        dead."
                    "Francis is a troublesome blackguard," declared the old
                        man. "I wish to God he would form the dying
                        habit, so that I might have a few years in peace; but he is forever turning
                        up in some mischief. And what can you do  about
                        it? Can we kick him out of the army without a scandal? Don't you
                        suppose he could go to Budapest tomorrow and make things interesting for us
                        if he pleased? He's as full of treason as he can stick, I tell
                        you."
                    Armitage nodded and smiled.
                    "I dare say," he said in English; and when the old
                        statesman glared at him he said in German: "No doubt you are
                        speaking the truth."
                    "Of course I speak the truth; but this is a matter for action, and
                        not for discussion. That packet was stolen by intention, and not by chance,
                        John Armitage!"
                    There was a slight immaterial sound in the hall, and the old prime minister
                        slipped from German to French without changing countenance as he
                        continued:
                    "We have enough troubles in Austria without encouraging treason. If
                        Rambaud and his chief, Winkelried, could make a king of Francis, the
                        brokeragethe commissionwould be something handsome; and Winkelried and
                        Rambaud are clever men."
                    "I know of Winkelried. The continental press has given much space to
                        him of late; but Rambaud is a new name."
                    "He is a skilled hand. He is the most daring scoundrel in
                        Europe."
                    
                    Count von Stroebel poured a glass of brandy from a silver flask and sipped it
                        slowly.
                    "I will show you the gentleman's pleasant
                        countenance," said the minister, and he threw open a leather
                        portfolio and drew from it a small photograph which he extended to Armitage,
                        who glanced at it carelessly and then with sudden interest.
                    "Rambaud!" he exclaimed.
                    "That's his name in Vienna. In Paris he is something else.
                        I will furnish you a list of his noms de guerre."
                    
                    "Thank you. I should like all the information you care to give me;
                        but it may amuse you to know that I have seen the gentleman
                        before."
                    "That is possible," remarked the old man, who never evinced
                        surprise in any circumstances.
                    "I expect to see him here within a few days."
                    Count von Stroebel held up his empty glass and studied it attentively, while
                        he waited for Armitage to explain why he expected to see Rambaud in
                        Geneva.
                    "He is interested in a certain young woman. She reached here
                        yesterday; and Rambaud, alias Chauvenet, is quite likely to arrive within a
                        day or so."
                    "Jules Chauvenet is the correct name. I must inform my
                        men," said the minister.
                    
                    "You wish to arrest him?"
                    "You ought to know me better than that, Mr. John Armitage! Of course
                        I shall not arrest him! But I must get that packet. I can't have it
                        peddled all over Europe, and I can't advertise my business by
                        having him arrested here. If I could catch him once in Vienna I should know
                        what to do with him! He and Winkelried got hold of our plans in that
                        Bulgarian affair last year and check-mated me. He carries his wares to the
                        best buyersBerlin and St. Petersburg. So there's a woman, is there?
                        I've found that there usually is!"
                    "There's a very charming young American girl, to be more
                        exact."
                    The old man growled and eyed Armitage sharply, while Armitage studied the
                        photograph.
                    "I hope you are not meditating a preposterous marriage. Go back
                        where you belong, make a proper marriage and wait"
                    "Events!" and John Armitage laughed. "I tell you,
                        sir, that waiting is not my forte. That's what I
                        like about America; they're up and at it over there; the man who
                        waits is lost."
                    "They're a lot of swine!" rumbled Von
                        Stroebel's heavy bass.
                    
                    "I still owe allegiance to the Schomburg crown, so don't
                        imagine you are hitting me. But the swine are industrious and energetic. Who
                        knows but that John Armitage might become famous among themin politics, in
                        finance! But for the deplorable accident of foreign birth he might become
                        president of the United States. As it is, there are thousands of other
                        offices worth gettingwhy not?"
                    "I tell you not to be a fool. You are young andfairly
                        clever"
                    Armitage laughed at the reluctance of the count's praise.
                    "Thank you, with all my heart!"
                    "Go back where you belong and you will have no regrets. Something
                        may happenwho can tell? Events eventsif a man will watch and wait and study
                        events"
                    "Bless me! They organize clubs in every American village for the
                        study of events," laughed Armitage; then he changed his tone.
                        "To be sure, the Bourbons have studied events these many yearsa
                        pretty spectacle, too."
                    "Carrion! Carrion!" almost screamed the old man,
                        half-rising in his seat. "Don't mention those scavengers
                             to me! Bah! The very thought of them makes
                        me sick. But"he gulped down more of the brandy "where and
                        how do you live?"
                    "Where? I own a cattle ranch in Montana and since the
                        Archduke's death I have lived there. He carried about fifty
                        thousand pounds to America with him. He took care that I should get what was
                        left when he diedand, I am almost afraid to tell you that I have actually
                        augmented my inheritance! Just before I left I bought a place in Virginia to
                        be near Washington when I got tired of the ranch."
                    "Washington!" snorted the count. "In due course it
                        will be the storm center of the world."
                    "You read the wrong American newspapers," laughed
                        Armitage.
                    They were silent for a moment, in which each was busy with his own thoughts;
                        then the count remarked, in as amiable a tone as he ever used:
                    "Your French is first rate. Do you speak English as
                        well?"
                    "As readily as German, I think. You may recall that I had an English
                        tutor, and maybe I did not tell you in that interview at Paris that I had
                        spent a year at Harvard University."
                    
                    "What the devil did you do that for?" growled Von
                        Stroebel.
                    "From curiosity, or ambition, as you like. I was in Cambridge at the
                        law school for a year before the Archduke died. That was three years ago. I
                        am twenty-eight, as you may remember. I am detaining you; I have no wish to
                        rake over the past; but I am sorryI am very sorry we can't meet on
                        some common ground."
                    "I ask you to abandon this democratic nonsense and come back and
                        make a man of yourself. You might go farvery far; but this democracy has
                        hold of you like a disease."
                    "What you ask is impossible. It is just as impossible now as it was
                        when we discussed it in Paris last year. To sit down in Vienna and learn how
                        to keep that leaning tower of an Empire from tumbling down like a stack of
                        bricksit does not appeal to me. You have spent a laborious life in defending
                        a silly medieval tradition of government. You are using all the apparatus of
                        the modern world to perpetuate an ideal that is as old and dead as the
                        Rameses dynasty. Every time you use the telegraph to send orders in an
                        emperor's name you commit an anachronism."
                    The count frowned and growled.
                    
                    "Don't talk to me like that. It is not
                        amusing."
                    "No; it is not funny. To see men like you fetching and carrying for
                        dull kings, who would drop through the gallows or go to planting turnips
                        without your brainsit does not appeal to my sense of humor or to my
                        imagination."
                    "You put it coarsely," remarked the old man grimly.
                        "I shall perhaps have a statue when I am gone."
                    "Quite likely; and mobs will rendezvous in its shadow to march upon
                        the royal palaces. If I were coming back to Europe I should go in for
                        something more interesting than furnishing brains for sickly
                        kings."
                    "I dare say! Very likely you would persuade them to proclaim
                        democracy and brotherhood everywhere."
                    "On the other hand, I should become king myself."
                    "Don't be a fool, Mr. John Armitage. Much as you have
                        grieved me, I should hate to see you in a mad-house."
                    "My faculties, poor as they are, were never clearer. I repeat that
                        if I were going to furnish the brains for an empire I should ride in the
                        state carriage myself, and not be merely the driver on the box, who keeps
                        the middle of the road and looks out for sharp corners. Here is a plan ready
                        to my hand. Let me find that lost document, 
                        appear in Vienna and announce myself Frederick Augustus, the son of the
                        Archduke Karl! I knew both men intimately. You may remember that Frederick
                        and I were born in the same month. I, too, am Frederick Augustus! We passed
                        commonly in America as brothers. Many of the personal effects of Karl and
                        Augustus are in my keepingby the Archduke's own wish. You have
                        spent your life studying human nature, and you know as well as I do that
                        half the world would believe my story if I said I was the Emperor's
                        nephew. In the uneasy and unstable condition of your absurd empire I should
                        be hailed as a diversion, and thenevents, events!"
                    Count von Stroebel listened with narrowing eyes, and his lips moved in an
                        effort to find words with which to break in upon this impious declaration.
                        When Armitage ceased speaking the old man sank back and glared at him.
                    "Karl did his work well. You are quite mad. You will do well to go
                        back to America before the police discover you."
                    Armitage rose and his manner changed abruptly.
                    "I do not mean to trouble or annoy you. Please pardon me! Let us be
                        friends, if we can be nothing more."
                    "It is too late. The chasm is too deep."
                    
                    The old minister sighed deeply. His fingers touched the despatch box as
                        though by habit. It represented power, majesty and the iron game of
                        government. The young man watched him eagerly.
                    The heavy, tremulous hands of Count von Stroebel passed back and forth over
                        the box caressingly. Suddenly he bent forward and spoke with a new and
                        gentler tone and manner.
                    "I have given my life, my whole life, as you have said, to one
                        serviceto uphold one idea. You have spoken of that work with contempt.
                        History, I believe, will reckon it justly."
                    "Your place is secureno one can gainsay that," broke in
                        Armitage.
                    "If you would do something for mefor medo something for Austria, do
                        something for my country and yours! You have wits; I dare say you have
                        courage. I don't care what that service may be; I don't
                        care where or how you perform it. I am not so near gone as you may think. I
                        know well enough that they are waiting for me to die; but I am in no hurry
                        to afford my enemies that pleasure. But stop this babble of yours about
                        democracy. Do something for Austriafor the Empire that I
                        have held here under my hand these difficult years 
                        
                            "Do something for Austria!" Page 18
                            
                        
                         then take your name againand you will find
                        that kings can be as just and wise as mobs."
                    "For the Empiresomething for the Empire?" murmured the
                        young man, wondering.
                    Count Ferdinand von Stroebel rose.
                    "You will accept the commissionI am quite sure you will accept. I
                        leave on an early train, and I shall not see you again." As he took
                        Armitage's hand he scrutinized him once more with particular care;
                        there was a lingering caress in his touch as he detained the young man for
                        an instant; then he sighed heavily.
                    "Good night; good-by!" he said abruptly, and waved his
                        caller toward the door.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE CLAIBORNES, OF WASHINGTON
                    
                        the Englishman who is not an Englishman and therefore doubly
                                incomprehensible.The Naulahka.
                        
                    
                    The girl with the white-plumed hat started and flushed slightly, and her
                        brother glanced over his shoulder toward the restaurant door to see what had
                        attracted her attention.
                    " 'Tis he, the unknown, Dick."
                    "I must say I like his persistence!" exclaimed the young
                        fellow, turning again to the table. "In America I should call him
                        out and punch his head, but over here"
                    "Over here you have better manners," replied the girl,
                        laughing. "But why trouble yourself? He doesn't even look
                        at us. We are of no importance to him whatever. We probably speak a
                        different language."
                    "But he travels by the same trains; he stops at the same inns; he
                        sits near us at the theaterhe even affects the same pictures in the same
                        galleries! It's growing  a trifle
                        monotonous; it's really insufferable. I think I shall have to try
                        my stick on him."
                    "You flatter yourself, Richard," mocked the girl.
                        "He's fully your height and a trifle broader across the
                        shoulders. The lines about his mouth are almostyes, I should say, quite as
                        firm as yours, though he is a younger man. His eyes are nice blue ones, and
                        they are very steady. His hair is"she paused to reflect and tilted
                        her head slightly, her eyes wandering for an instant to the subject of her
                        comment"light brown, I should call it. And he is beardless, as all
                        self-respecting men should be. I'm sure that he is an exemplary
                        person kind to his sisters and aunts, very willing to sacrifice himself for
                        others and light the candles on his nephews' and nieces'
                        Christmas trees."
                    She rested her cheek against her lightly-clasped hands and sighed deeply to
                        provoke a continuation of her brother's growling disdain.
                    The young gentleman to whom she had referred had seated himself at a table
                        not far distant, given an order with some particularity, and settled himself
                        to the reading of a newspaper which he had drawn from the pocket of his blue
                        serge coat. He was at once absorbed, and the presence of the Claibornes gave
                        him apparently not the slightest concern.
                    
                    "He has a sense of humor," the girl resumed. "I
                        saw him yesterday"
                    "You're always seeing him: you ought to be ashamed of
                        yourself."
                    "Don't interrupt me, please. As I was saying, I saw him
                        laughing over the Fliegende Bltter."
                    
                    "But that's no sign he has a sense of humor. It rather
                        proves that he hasn't. I'm disappointed in you, Shirley.
                        To think that my own sister should be able to tell the color of a wandering
                        blackguard's eyes!"
                    He struck a match viciously, and his sister laughed.
                    "I might add to his portrait. That blue and white scarf is tied
                        beautifully; and his profile would be splendid in a medallion. I believe
                        from his nose he may be English, after all," she added with a
                        dreamy air assumed to add to her brother's impatience.
                    "Which doesn't help the matter materially, that I can
                        see!" exclaimed the young man. "With a full beard
                        he'd probably look like a Sicilian bandit. If I thought he was
                        really pursuing you in this darkly mysterious way I should certainly give
                        him a piece of my American mind. You might suppose that a girl would be safe
                        traveling with her brother."
                    "It isn't your fault, Dick," laughed the girl.
                        "You  know our parents dear were with
                        us when we first began to notice himthat was in Rome. And now that we are
                        alone he continues to follow our trail just the same. It's really
                        diverting; and if you were a good brother you'd find out all about
                        him, and we might even do stunts togetherthe three of us, with you as the
                        watchful chaperon. You forget how I have worked for you, Dick. I took great
                        chances in forcing an acquaintance with those frosty English people at
                        Florence just because you were crazy about the scrawny blonde who wore the
                        frightful hats. I wash my hands of you hereafter. Your taste in girls is
                        horrible."
                    "Your mind has been affected by reading these fake-kingdom romances,
                        where a ridiculous prince gives up home and mother and his country to marry
                        the usual beautiful American girl who travels about having silly adventures.
                        I belong to the Know-nothing Party America for Americans and only white men
                        on guard!"
                    "Yes, Richard! Your sentiments are worthy, but they'd have
                        more weight if I hadn't seen you staring your eyes out every time
                        we came within a mile of a penny princess. I haven't forgotten your
                        disgraceful conduct in collecting photographs of that homely daughter  of a certain English duke. We'll call
                        the incident closed, little brother."
                    "Our friend Chauvenet, even," continued Captain Claiborne,
                        "is less persistentless gloomily present on the horizon. We
                        haven't seen him for a week or two. But he expects to visit
                        Washington this spring. His waistcoats are magnificent. The governor shies
                        every time the fellow unbuttons his coat."
                    "Mr. Chauvenet is an accomplished man of the world,"
                        declared Shirley with an insincere sparkle in her eyes.
                    "He lives by his witsand lives well."
                    Claiborne dismissed Chauvenet and turned again toward the strange young man,
                        who was still deep in his newspaper.
                    "He's reading the Neue Freie
                            Presse," remarked Dick, "by which token I argue
                        that he's some sort of a Dutchman. He's probably a
                        traveling agent for a Vienna glass-factory, or a drummer for a cheap
                        wine-house, or the agent for a Munich brewery. That would account for his
                        travels. We simply fall in with his commercial itinerary."
                    "You seem to imply, brother, that my charms are not in themselves
                        sufficient. But a commercial traveler hardly commands that fine repose, that
                        distinction  that air of having been places and
                        seen things and known people"
                    "Tush! I have seen American book agents who had all thateven the air
                        of having been places! Your instincts ought to serve you better, Shirley.
                        It's well that we go on to-morrow. I shall warn mother and the
                        governor that you need watching."
                    Shirley Claiborne's eyes rested again upon the calm reader of the
                            Neue Freie Presse. The waiter was now placing certain
                        dishes upon the table without, apparently, interesting the young gentleman
                        in the least. Then the unknown dropped his newspaper, and buttered a roll
                        reflectively. His gaze swept the room for the first time, passing over the
                        heads of Miss Claiborne and her brother unseeinglywith, perhaps, too studied
                        an air of indifference.
                    "He has known real sorrow," persisted Shirley, her elbows
                        on the table, her fingers interlocked, her chin resting idly upon them.
                        "He's traveling in an effort to forget a blighting
                        grief," the girl continued with mock sympathy.
                    "Then let us leave him in peace! We can't decently linger
                        in the presence of his sacred sorrow."
                    Captain Richard Claiborne and his sister Shirley had  stopped at Geneva to spend a week with a younger brother, who
                        was in school there, and were to join their father and mother at Liverpool
                        and sail for home at once. The Claibornes were permanent residents of
                        Washington, where Hilton Claiborne, a former ambassador to two of the
                        greatest European courts, was counsel for several of the embassies and a
                        recognized authority in international law. He had been to Rome to report to
                        the Italian government the result of his efforts to collect damages from the
                        United States for the slaughter of Italian laborers in a railroad strike,
                        and had proceeded thence to England on other professional business.
                    Dick Claiborne had been ill, and was abroad on leave in an effort to shake
                        off the lingering effects of typhoid fever contracted in the Philippines. He
                        was under orders to report for duty at Fort Myer on the first of April, and
                        it was now late March. He and his sister had spent the morning at their
                        brother's school and were enjoying a late djener
                        at the Monte Rosa. There existed between them a pleasant comradeship that
                        was in no wise affected by divergent tastes and temperaments. Dick had just
                        attained his captaincy, and was the youngest man of his rank in the service.
                        He did not know an orchid  from a hollyhock,
                        but no man in the army was a better judge of a cavalry horse, and if a
                        Wagner recital bored him to death his spirit rose, nevertheless, to the
                        bugle, and he drilled his troop until he could play with it and snap it
                        about him like a whip.
                    Shirley Claiborne had been out of college a year, and afforded a pleasant
                        refutation of the dull theory that advanced education destroys a
                        girl's charm, or buoyancy, or whatever it is that is so greatly
                        admired in young womanhood. She gave forth the impression of vitality and
                        strength. She was beautifully fair, with a high color that accentuated her
                        youthfulness. Her brown hair, caught up from her brow in the fashion of the
                        early years of the century, flashed gold in sunlight.
                    Much of Shirley's girlhood had been spent in the Virginia hills,
                        where Judge Claiborne had long maintained a refuge from the heat of
                        Washington. From childhood she had read the calendar of spring as it is
                        written upon the landscape itself. Her fingers found by instinct the first
                        arbutus; she knew where white violets shone first upon the rough breast of
                        the hillsides; and particular patches of rhododendron had for her the
                        intimate interest of private gardens.
                    Undoubtedly there are deities fully consecrated to  the important business of naming girls, so happily is that task
                        accomplished. Gladys is a child of the spirit of mischief. Josephine wears a
                        sweet gravity, and Mary, too, discourses of serious matters. Nora, in some
                        incarnation, has seen fairies scampering over moor and hill and the
                        remembrance of them teases her memory. Katherine is not so faithless as her
                        ways might lead you to believe. Laura without dark eyes would be impossible,
                        and her predestined Petrarch would never deliver his sonnets. Helen may be
                        seen only against a background of Trojan wall. Gertrude must be tall and
                        fair and ready with ballads in the winter twilight. Julia's reserve
                        and discretion commend her to you; but she has a heart of laughter. Anne is
                        to be found in the rose garden with clipping-shears and a basket. Hilda is a
                        capable person; there is no ignoring her militant character; the battles of
                        Saxon kings ring still in her blood. Marjorie has scribbled verses in
                        secret, and Celia is the quietest auditor at the symphony. And you may have
                        observed that there is no button on Elizabeth's foil; you do well
                        not to clash wits with her. Do you say that these ascriptions are not square
                        with your experience? Then verily there must have been a sad mixing of
                        infant candidates for the font in your parish.
                    
                    Shirley, in such case, will mean nothing to you. It is a waste of time to
                        tell you that the name may become audible without being uttered; you can not
                        be made to understand that the r and l slip into each other as ripples glide
                        over pebbles in a brook. And from the name to the girlmay you be forever
                        denied a glimpse of Shirley Claiborne's pretty head, her brown hair
                        and dream-haunted eyes, if you do not first murmur the name with honest
                        liking.
                    As the Claibornes lingered at their table a short stout man espied them from
                        the door and advanced beamingly.
                    "Ah, my dear Shirley, and Dick! Can it be possible! I only heard by
                        the merest chance that you were here. But Switzerland is the real
                        meeting-place of the world."
                    The young Americans greeted the new-comer cordially. A waiter placed a chair
                        for him, and took his hat. Arthur Singleton was an American, though he had
                        lived abroad so long as to have lost his identity with any particular city
                        or state of his native land. He had been an attach of the American embassy
                        at London for many years. Administrations changed and ambassadors came and
                        went, but Singleton was never molested. It was said  that he kept his position on the score of his wide
                        acquaintance; he knew every one, and he was a great peddler of gossip,
                        particularly about people in high station.
                    The children of Hilton Claiborne were not to be overlooked. He would impress
                        himself upon them, as was his way; for he was sincerely social by instinct,
                        and would go far to do a kindness for people he really liked.
                    "Ah me! You have arrived opportunely, Miss Claiborne.
                        There's mystery in the airthe great Stroebel is hereunder this very
                        roof and in a dreadfully bad humor. He is a dangerous mana very dangerous
                        man, but failing fast. Poor Austria! Count Ferdinand von Stroebel can have
                        no successorhe's only a sort of hold-over from the nineteenth
                        century, and with him and his Emperor out of the waywhat? For my part I see
                        only dark days ahead;" and he concluded with a little sigh that
                        implied crumbling thrones and falling dynasties.
                    "We met him in Vienna," said Shirley Claiborne,
                        "when father was there before the Ecuador Claims Commission. He
                        struck me as being a delightful old grizzly bear."
                    "He will have his place in history; he is a statesman of the old
                        blood and iron school; he is the peer of Bismarck, and some things he has
                        done. He holds more  secrets than any other man
                        in Europeand you may be quite sure that they will die with him. He will
                        leave no memoirs to be poked over by his enemiesno post-mortem confidences
                        from him!"
                    The reader of the Neue Freie Presse, preparing to leave his
                        table, tore from the newspaper an article that seemed to have attracted him,
                        placed it in his card-case, and walked toward the door. The eyes of Arthur
                        Singleton lighted in recognition, and the attach, muttering an apology to
                        the Claibornes, addressed the young gentleman cordially.
                    "Why, Armitage, of all men!" and he rose, still facing the
                        Claibornes, with an air of embracing the young Americans in his greetings.
                        He never liked to lose an auditor; and he would, in no circumstances, miss a
                        chance to display the wide circumference of his acquaintance.
                    "ShirleyMiss Claiborneallow me to present Mr. Armitage."
                        The young army officer and Armitage then shook hands, and the three men
                        stood for a moment, detained, it seemed, by the old attach, who had no
                        engagement for the next hour or two and resented the idea of being left
                        alone.
                    "One always meets Armitage!" declared Singleton.
                    
                    "He knows our America as well as we doand very well indeedfor an
                        Englishman."
                    Armitage bowed gravely.
                    "You make it necessary again for me to disavow any allegiance to the
                        powers that rule Great Britain. I'm really a fair sort of AmericanI
                        have sometimes told New York people all aboutColoradoMontanaNew
                        Mexico!"
                    His voice and manner were those of a gentleman. His color, as Shirley
                        Claiborne now observed, was that of an outdoors man; she was familiar with
                        it in soldiers and sailors, and knew that it testified to a vigorous and
                        wholesome life.
                    "Of course you're not English!" exclaimed
                        Singleton, annoyed as he remembered, or thought he did, that Armitage had on
                        some other occasion made the same protest.
                    "I'm really getting sensitive about it," said
                        Armitage, more to the Claibornes than to Singleton. "But must we
                        all be from somewhere? Is it so melancholy a plight to be a man without a
                        country?"
                    The mockery in his tone was belied by the good humor in his face; his eyes
                        caught Shirley's passingly, and she smiled at himit seemed a
                        natural, a perfectly inevitable  thing to do.
                        She liked the kind tolerance with which he suffered the babble of Arthur
                        Singleton, whom some one had called an international bore. The young
                        man's dignity was only an expression of self-respect; his
                        appreciation of the exact proprieties resulting from this casual
                        introduction to herself and her brother was perfect. He was already
                        withdrawing. A waiter had followed him with his discarded newspaperand
                        Armitage took it and idly dropped it on a chair.
                    "Have you heard the news, Armitage? The Austrian sphinx is herein
                        this very house!" whispered Singleton impressively.
                    "Yes; to be sure, Count von Stroebel is here, but he will probably
                        not remain long. The Alps will soon be safe again. I am glad to have met
                        you." He bowed to the Claibornes inclusively, nodded in response to
                        Singleton's promise to look him up later, and left them.
                    When Shirley and her brother reached their common sitting-room Dick Claiborne
                        laughingly held up the copy of the Neue Freie Presse which
                        Armitage had cast aside at their table.
                    "Now we shall know!" he declared, unfolding the
                        newspaper.
                    "Know what, Dick?"
                    
                    "At least what our friend without a country is so interested
                        in."
                    He opened the paper, from which half a column had been torn, noted the date,
                        rang the bell, and ordered a copy of the same issue. When it was brought he
                        opened it, found the place, laughed loudly, and passed the sheet over to his
                        sister.
                    "Oh, Shirley, Shirley! This is almost too much!" he cried,
                        watching her as her eyes swept the article. She turned away to escape his
                        noise, and after a glance threw down the paper in disgust. The article dealt
                        in detail with Austro-Hungarian finances, and fairly bristled with figures
                        and sage conclusions based upon them.
                    "Isn't that the worst!" exclaimed Shirley, smiling
                        ruefully.
                    "He's certainly a romantic figure ready to your hand.
                        Probably a bank-clerk who makes European finance his
                        recreation."
                    "He isn't an Englishman, at any rate. He repudiated the
                        idea with scorn."
                    "Well, your Mr. Armitage didn't seem so awfully excited at
                        meeting Singleton; but he seemed rather satisfied with your appearance, to
                        put it mildly. I wonder if he had arranged with Singleton to pass by in that
                        purely  incidental way, just for the privilege
                        of making your acquaintance!"
                    "Don't be foolish, Dick. It's unbecoming an
                        officer and a gentleman. But if you should see Mr. Singleton
                        again"
                    "Yesnot if I see him first!" ejaculated
                        Claiborne.
                    "Well, you might ask him who Mr. Armitage is. It would be amusingand
                        satisfyingto know."
                    Later in the day the old attach fell upon Claiborne in the smoking-room and
                        stopped to discuss a report that a change was impending in the American
                        State Department. Changes at Washington did not trouble Singleton, who was
                        sure of his tenure. He said as much; and after some further talk, Claiborne
                        remarked:
                    "Your friend Armitage seems a good sort."
                    "Oh, yes; a capital talker, and thoroughly well posted in
                        affairs."
                    "Yes, he seemed interesting. Do you happen to know where he
                        liveswhen he's at home?"
                    "Lord bless you, boy, I don't know anything about
                        Armitage!" spluttered Singleton, with the emphasis so thrown as to
                        imply that of course in any other branch of human knowledge he would be
                        found abundantly qualified to answer questions.
                    
                    "But you introduced us to himmy sister and me. I
                        assumed"
                    "My dear Claiborne, I'm always introducing people!
                        It's my business to introduce people. Armitage is all right.
                        He's always around everywhere. I've dined with him in
                        Paris, and I've rarely seen a man order a better
                        dinner."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    DARK TIDINGS
                    
                        The news I bring is heavy in my tongue.Shakespeare.
                        
                    
                    The second day thereafter Shirley Claiborne went into a jeweler's on
                        the Grand Quai to purchase a trinket that had caught her eye, while she
                        waited for Dick, who had gone off in their carriage to the post-office to
                        send some telegrams. It was a small shop, and the time early afternoon, when
                        few people were about. A man who had preceded her was looking at watches,
                        and seemed deeply absorbed in this occupation. She heard his inquiries as to
                        quality and price, and knew that it was Armitage's voice before she
                        recognized his tall figure. She made her purchase quickly, and was about to
                        leave the shop, when he turned toward her and she bowed.
                    "Good afternoon, Miss Claiborne. These are very tempting bazaars,
                        aren't they? If the abominable tariff laws of America did not give
                        us pause"
                    He bent above her, hat in hand, smiling. He had concluded  the purchase of a watch, which the shopkeeper
                        was now wrapping in a box.
                    "I have just purchased a little remembrance for my ranch foreman out
                        in Montana, and before I can place it in his hands it must be examined and
                        appraised and all the pleasure of the gift destroyed by the custom officers
                        in New York. I hope you are a good smuggler, Miss Claiborne."
                    "I'd like to be. Women are supposed to have a knack at the
                        business; but my father is so patriotic that he makes me declare
                        everything."
                    "Patriotism will carry one far; but I object both to being taxed and
                        to the alternative of corrupting the gentlemen who lie in wait at the
                        receipt of customs."
                    "Of course the answer is that Americans should buy at
                        home," replied Shirley. She received her change, and Armitage
                        placed his small package in his pocket.
                    "My brother expected to meet me here; he ran off with our
                        carriage," Shirley explained.
                    "These last errands are always tryingthere are innumerable things
                        one would like to come back for from mid-ocean, tariff or no
                        tariff."
                    "There's the wireless," said Shirley. "In
                        time we shall be able to commit our afterthoughts to it. But  lost views can hardly be managed that way.
                        After I get home I shall think of scores of things I should like to see
                        againthat photographs don't give."
                    "Such as?"
                    "Ohthe way the Pope looks when he gives his blessing at St.
                        Peter's; and the feeling you have when you stand by
                        Napoleon's tombthe awfulness of what he did and wasand being here
                        in Switzerland, where I always feel somehow the pressure of all the past of
                        Europe about me. Now,"and she laughed lightly,"I have made
                        a most serious confession."
                    "It is a new ideathat of surveying the ages from these mountains.
                        They must be very wise after all these years, and they have certainly seen
                        men and nations do many evil and wretched things. But the history of the
                        world is all one long romancea tremendous story."
                    "That is what makes me sorry to go home," said Shirley
                        meditatively. "We are so newstill in the making, and absurdly raw.
                        When we have a war, it is just politics, with scandals about what the
                        soldiers have to eat, and that sort of thing; and there's a fuss
                        about pensions, and the heroic side of it is lost."
                    "But it is easy to overestimate the weight of history and tradition.
                        The glory of dead Caesar doesn't do the  peasant any good. When you see Italian laborers at work in America
                        digging ditches or laying railroad ties, or find Norwegian farmers driving
                        their plows into the new hard soil of the Dakotas, you don't think
                        of their past as much as of their futurethe future of the whole human
                        race."
                    Armitage had been the subject of so much jesting between Dick and herself
                        that it seemed strange to be talking to him. His face brightened pleasantly
                        when he spoke; his eyes were grayer than she had mockingly described them
                        for her brother's benefit the day before. His manner was gravely
                        courteous, and she did not at all believe that he had followed her
                        about.
                    Her ideals of men were colored by the American prejudice in favor of those
                        who aim high and venture much. In her childhood she had read Malory and
                        Froissart with a boy's delight. She possessed, too, that poetic
                        sense of the charm of "the spirit of place" that is the
                        natural accompaniment of the imaginative temperament. The cry of bugles
                        sometimes brought tears to her eyes; her breath came quickly when she satas
                        she often did in the Fort Myer drill hall at Washington and watched the
                        alert cavalrymen dashing toward the spectators' gallery in the
                        mimic charge. The work that brave  men do she
                        admired above anything else in the world. As a child in Washington she had
                        looked wonderingly upon the statues of heroes and the frequent military
                        pageants of the capital; and she had wept at the solemn pomp of military
                        funerals. Once on a battleship she had thrilled at the salutes of a mighty
                        fleet in the Hudson below the tomb of Grant; and soon thereafter had felt
                        awe possess her as she gazed upon the white marble effigy of Lee in the
                        chapel at Lexington; for the contemplation of heroes was dear to her, and
                        she was proud to believe that her father, a veteran of the Civil War, and
                        her soldier brother were a tie between herself and the old heroic times.
                    Armitage was aware that a jeweler's shop was hardly the place for
                        extended conversation with a young woman whom he scarcely knew, but he
                        lingered in the joy of hearing this American girl's voice, and what
                        she said interested him immensely. He had seen her first in Paris a few
                        months before at an exhibition of battle paintings. He had come upon her
                        standing quite alone before High Tide at Gettysburg, the
                        picture of the year; and he had noted the quick mounting of color to her
                        cheeks as the splendid movement of the painting its ardor and firetook hold
                        of her. He saw her  again in Florence; and it
                        was from there that he had deliberately followed the Claibornes.
                    His own plans were now quite unsettled by his interview with Von Stroebel. He
                        fully expected Chauvenet in Geneva; the man had apparently been on cordial
                        terms with the Claibornes; and as he had seemed to be master of his own
                        time, it was wholly possible that he would appear before the Claibornes left
                        Geneva. It was now the second day after Von Stroebel's departure,
                        and Armitage began to feel uneasy.
                    He stood with Shirley quite near the shop door, watching for Captain
                        Claiborne to come back with the carriage.
                    "But Americaisn't America the most marvelous product of
                        romance in the world,its discovery,the successive conflicts that led up to
                        the realization of democracy? Consider the worthless idlers of the Middle
                        Ages going about banging one another's armor with battle-axes. Let
                        us have peace, said the tired warrior."
                    "He could afford to say it; he was the victor," said
                        Shirley.
                    "Ah! there is Captain Claiborne. I am indebted to you, Miss
                        Claiborne, for many pleasant suggestions."
                    The carriage was at the door, and Dick Claiborne came up to them at once and
                        bowed to Armitage.
                    
                    "There is great news: Count Ferdinand von Stroebel was murdered in
                        his railway carriage between here and Vienna; they found him dead at
                        Innsbruck this morning."
                    "Is it possible! Are you quite sure he was murdered?"
                    It was Armitage who asked the question. He spoke in a tone quite
                        matter-of-fact and colorless, so that Shirley looked at him in surprise; but
                        she saw that he was very grave; and then instantly some sudden feeling
                        flashed in his eyes.
                    "There is no doubt of it. It was an atrocious crime; the count was
                        an old man and feeble when we saw him the other day. He wasn't fair
                        game for an assassin," said Claiborne.
                    "No; he deserved a better fate," remarked Armitage.
                    "He was a grand old man," said Shirley, as they left the
                        shop and walked toward the carriage. "Father admired him greatly;
                        and he was very kind to us in Vienna. It is terrible to think of his being
                        murdered."
                    "Yes; he was a wise and useful man," observed Armitage,
                        still grave. "He was one of the great men of his
                        time."
                    His tone was not that of one who discusses casually  a bit of news of the hour, and Captain Claiborne paused a
                        moment at the carriage door, curious as to what Armitage might say
                        further.
                    "And now we shall see" began the young American.
                    "We shall see Johann Wilhelm die of old age within a few years at
                        most; and then Charles Louis, his son, will be the Emperor-king in his
                        place; and if he should go hence without heirs, his cousin Francis would
                        rule in the house of his fathers; and Francis is corrupt and worthless, and
                        quite necessary to the plans of destiny for the divine order of
                        kings."
                    John Armitage stood beside the carriage quite erect, his hat and stick and
                        gloves in his right hand, his left thrust lightly into the side pocket of
                        his coat.
                    "A queer devil," observed Claiborne, as they drove away.
                        "A solemn customer, and not cheerful enough to make a good drummer.
                        By what singular chance did he find you in that shop?"
                    "I found him, dearest brother, if I must make the
                        humiliating disclosure."
                    "I shouldn't have believed it! I hardly thought you would
                        carry it so far."
                    "And while he may be a salesman of imitation cut-glass, he has
                        expensive tastes."
                    
                    "Lord help us, he hasn't been buying you a
                        watch?"
                    "No; he was lavishing himself on a watch for the foreman of his
                        ranch in Montana."
                    "Humph! you're chaffing."
                    "Not in the least. He paidI couldn't help being a witness
                        to the transactionhe actually paid five hundred francs for a watch to give
                        to the foreman of his ranchhis ranch, mind you, in
                        Montana, U. S. A. He spoke of it incidentally, as though he were always
                        buying watches for cowboys. Now where does that leave us?"
                    "I'm afraid it rather does for my theory. I'll
                        look him up when I get home. Montana isn't a good hiding-place any
                        more. But it was odd the way he acted about old Stroebel's death.
                        You don't suppose he knew him, do you?"
                    "It's possible. Poor Count von Stroebel! Many hearts are
                        lighter, now that he's done for."
                    "Yes; and there will be something doing in Austria, now that
                        he's out of the way."
                    Four days passed, in which they devoted themselves to their young brother.
                        The papers were filled with accounts of Count von Stroebel's death
                        and speculations as to its effect on the future of Austria and the peace of
                             Europe. The Claibornes saw nothing of
                        Armitage. Dick asked for him in the hotel, and found that he had gone, but
                        would return in a few days.
                    It was on the morning of the fourth day that Armitage appeared suddenly at
                        the hotel as Dick and his sister waited for a carriage to carry them to
                        their train. He had just returned, and they met by the narrowest margin. He
                        walked with them to the door of the Monte Rosa.
                    "We are running for the King Edward, and hope for
                        a day in London before we sail. Perhaps we shall see you one of these days
                        in America," said Claiborne, with some malice, it must be
                        confessed, for his sister's benefit.
                    "That is possible; I am very fond of Washington," responded
                        Armitage carelessly.
                    "Of course you will look us up," persisted Dick.
                        "I shall be at Fort Myer for a whileand it will always be a
                        pleasure"
                    Claiborne turned for a last word with the porter about their baggage, and
                        Armitage stood talking to Shirley, who had already entered the carriage.
                    "Oh, is there any news of Count von Stroebel's
                        assassin?" she asked, noting the newspaper that Armitage held in
                        his hand.
                    
                    "Nothing. It's a very mysterious and puzzling
                        affair."
                    "It's horrible to think such a thing possiblehe was a
                        wonderful old man. But very likely they will find the
                        murderer."
                    "Yes; undoubtedly."
                    Then, seeing her brother beating his hands together impatiently behind
                        Armitage's backa back whose ample shoulders were splendidly
                        silhouetted in the carriage doorShirley smiled in her joy of the situation,
                        and would have prolonged it for her brother's benefit even to the
                        point of missing the train, if the matter had been left wholly in her hands.
                        It amused her to keep the conversation pitched in the most impersonal
                        key.
                    "The secret police will scour Europe in pursuit of the
                        assassin," she observed.
                    "Yes," replied Armitage gravely.
                    He thought her brown traveling gown, with hat and gloves to match,
                        exceedingly becoming, and he liked the full, deep tones of her voice, and
                        the changing light of her eyes; and a certain dimple in her left cheekhe had
                        assured himself that it had no counterpart on the right made the fate of
                        principalities and powers seem, at the moment, an idle thing.
                    
                    "The truth will be known before we sail, no doubt," said
                        Shirley. "The assassin may be here in Geneva by this
                        time."
                    "That is quite likely," said John Armitage, with unbroken
                        gravity. "In fact, I rather expect him here, or I should be leaving
                        to-day myself."
                    He bowed and made way for the vexed and chafing Claiborne, who gave his hand
                        to Armitage hastily and jumped into the carriage.
                    "Your imitation cut-glass drummer has nearly caused us to miss our
                        train. Thank the Lord, we've seen the last of that
                        fellow."
                    Shirley said nothing, but gazed out of the window with a wondering look in
                        her eyes. And on the way to Liverpool she thought often of
                        Armitage's last words. "I rather expect him here, or I
                        should be leaving to-day myself," he had said.
                    She was not sure whether, if it had not been for those words, she would have
                        thought of him again at all. She remembered him as he stood framed in the
                        carriage door his gravity, his fine ease, the impression he gave of great
                        physical strength, and of resources of character and courage.
                    And so Shirley Claiborne left Geneva, not knowing  the curious web that fate had woven for her, nor how those last words
                        spoken by Armitage at the carriage door were to link her to strange
                        adventures at the very threshold of her American home.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    JOHN ARMITAGE A PRISONER
                    
                        
                            All things are bright in the track of the sun,
                            All things are fair I see;
                            And the light in a golden tide has run
                            Down out of the sky to me.
                        
                        
                            And the world turns round and round and round,
                            And my thought sinks into the sea;
                            The sea of peace and of joy profound
                            Whose tide is mystery.
                            
                                S. W. Duffield.
                            
                        
                    
                    The man whom John Armitage expected arrived at the Hotel Monte Rosa a few
                        hours after the Claibornes' departure.
                    While he waited, Mr. Armitage employed his time to advantage. He carefully
                        scrutinized his wardrobe, and after a process of elimination and
                        substitution he packed his raiment in two trunks and was ready to leave the
                        inn at ten minutes' notice. Between trains, when not engaged in
                        watching the incoming travelers, he smoked a pipe over various packets of
                        papers and letters, and  these he burned with
                        considerable care. All the French and German newspaper accounts of the
                        murder of Count von Stroebel he read carefully; and even more particularly
                        he studied the condition of affairs in Vienna consequent upon the great
                        statesman's death. Secret agents from Vienna and detectives from
                        Paris had visited Geneva in their study of this astounding crime, and had
                        made much fuss and asked many questions; but Mr. John Armitage paid no heed
                        to them. He had held the last conversation of length that any one had
                        enjoyed with Count Ferdinand von Stroebel, but the fact of this interview
                        was known to no one, unless to one or two hotel servants, and these held a
                        very high opinion of Mr. Armitage's character, based on his
                        generosity in the matter of gold coin; and there could, of course, be no
                        possible relationship between so shocking a tragedy and a chance
                        acquaintance between two travelers. Mr. Armitage knew nothing that he cared
                        to impart to detectives, and a great deal that he had no intention of
                        imparting to any one. He accumulated a remarkable assortment of time-tables
                        and advertisements of transatlantic sailings against sudden need, and even
                        engaged passage on three steamers sailing from English and French ports
                        within the week.
                    
                    He expected that the person for whom he waited would go direct to the Hotel
                        Monte Rosa for the reason that Shirley Claiborne had been there; and
                        Armitage was not mistaken. When this person learned that the Claibornes had
                        left, he would doubtless hurry after them. This is the conclusion that was
                        reached by Mr. Armitage, who, at times, was singularly happy in his
                        speculations as to the mental processes of other people. Sometimes, however,
                        he made mistakes, as will appear.
                    The gentleman for whom John Armitage had been waiting arrived alone, and was
                        received as a distinguished guest by the landlord.
                    Monsieur Chauvenet inquired for his friends the Claibornes, and was clearly
                        annoyed to find that they had gone; and no sooner had this intelligence been
                        conveyed to him than he, too, studied time-tables and consulted steamer
                        advertisements. Mr. John Armitage in various discreet ways was observant of
                        Monsieur Chauvenet's activities, and bookings at steamship offices
                        interested him so greatly that he reserved passage on two additional
                        steamers and ordered the straps buckled about his trunks, for it had
                        occurred to him that he might find it necessary to leave Geneva in a
                        hurry.
                    It was not likely that Monsieur Chauvenet, being now  under his eyes, would escape him; and John Armitage, making a
                        leisurely dinner, learned from his waiter that Monsieur Chauvenet, being
                        worn from his travels, was dining alone in his rooms.
                    At about eight o'clock, as Armitage turned the pages of Figaro in the smoking-room, Chauvenet appeared at the door,
                        scrutinized the group within, and passed on. Armitage had carried his coat,
                        hat and stick into the smoking-room, to be ready for possible emergencies;
                        and when Chauvenet stepped out into the street he followed.
                    It was unusually cold for the season, and a fine drizzle filled the air.
                        Chauvenet struck off at once away from the lake, turned into the Boulevard
                        Helvtique, thence into the Boulevard Froissart with its colony of pensions. He walked rapidly until he reached a house that
                        was distinguished from its immediate neighbors only by its unlighted upper
                        windows. He pulled the bell in the wall, and the door was at once opened and
                        instantly closed.
                    Armitage, following at twenty yards on the opposite side of the street,
                        paused abruptly at the sudden ending of his chase. It was not an hour for
                        loitering, for the Genevan gendarmerie have rather good
                        eyes, but Armitage had by no means satisfied his curiosity as to the nature
                             of Chauvenet's errand. He walked
                        on to make sure he was unobserved, crossed the street, and again passed the
                        dark, silent house which Chauvenet had entered. He noted the place
                        carefully; it gave no outward appearance of being occupied. He assumed, from
                        the general plan of the neighboring buildings, that there was a courtyard at
                        the rear of the darkened house, accessible through a narrow passageway at
                        the side. As he studied the situation he kept moving to avoid observation,
                        and presently, at a moment when he was quite alone in the street, walked
                        rapidly to the house Chauvenet had entered.
                    Gentlemen in search of adventures do well to avoid the continental wall. Mr.
                        Armitage brushed the glass from the top with his hat. It jingled softly
                        within under cover of the rain-drip. The plaster had crumbled from the
                        bricks in spots, giving a foot its opportunity, and Mr. Armitage drew
                        himself to the top and dropped within. The front door and windows stared at
                        him blankly, and he committed his fortunes to the bricked passageway. The
                        rain was now coming down in earnest, and at the rear of the house water had
                        begun to drip noisily into an iron spout. The electric lights from
                        neighboring streets made a kind of twilight even in the  darkened court, and Armitage threaded his way among a network
                        of clothes-lines to the rear wall and viewed the premises. He knew his
                        Geneva from many previous visits; the quarter was undeniably respectable;
                        and there is, to be sure, no reason why the blinds of a house should not be
                        carefully drawn at nightfall at the pleasure of the occupants. The whole
                        lower floor seemed utterly deserted; only at one point on the third floor
                        was there any sign of light, and this the merest hint.
                    The increasing fall of rain did not encourage loitering in the wet courtyard,
                        where the downspout now rattled dolorously, and Armitage crossed the court
                        and further assured himself that the lower floor was dark and silent.
                        Balconies were bracketed against the wall at the second and third stories,
                        and the slight iron ladder leading thither terminated a foot above his head.
                        John Armitage was fully aware that his position, if discovered, was, to say
                        the least, untenable; but he was secure from observation by police, and he
                        assumed that the occupants of the house were probably too deeply engrossed
                        with their affairs to waste much time on what might happen without. Armitage
                        sprang up and caught the lowest round of the ladder, and in a moment his
                        tall figure was a dark blur against the wall as he crept  warily upward. The rear rooms of the second
                        story were as dark and quiet as those below. Armitage continued to the third
                        story, where a door, as well as several windows, gave upon the balcony; and
                        he found that it was from a broken corner of the door shade that a sharp
                        blade of light cut the dark. All continued quiet below; he heard the traffic
                        of the neighboring thoroughfares quite distinctly; and from a kitchen near
                        by came the rough clatter of dishwashing to the accompaniment of a quarrel
                        in German between the maids. For the moment he felt secure, and bent down
                        close to the door and listened.
                    Two men were talking, and evidently the matter under discussion was of
                        importance, for they spoke with a kind of dogged deliberation, and the long
                        pauses in the dialogue lent color to the belief that some weighty matter was
                        in debate. The beat of the rain on the balcony and its steady rattle in the
                        spout intervened to dull the sound of voices, but presently one of the
                        speakers, with an impatient exclamation, rose, opened the small glass-paned
                        door a few inches, peered out, and returned to his seat with an exclamation
                        of relief. Armitage had dropped down the ladder half a dozen rounds as he
                        heard the latch snap in the door. He waited an instant  to make sure he had not been seen, then crept back to the
                        balcony and found that the slight opening in the door made it possible for
                        him to see as well as hear.
                    "It's stifling in this hole," said Chauvenet,
                        drawing deeply upon his cigarette and blowing a cloud of smoke. "If
                        you will pardon the informality, I will lay aside my coat."
                    He carefully hung the garment upon the back of his chair to hold its shape,
                        then resumed his seat. His companion watched him meanwhile with a certain
                        intentness.
                    "You take excellent care of your clothes, my dear Jules. I never
                        have been able to fold a coat without ruining it."
                    The rain was soaking Armitage thoroughly, but its persistent beat covered any
                        slight noises made by his own movements, and he was now intent upon the
                        little room and its occupants. He observed the care with which the man kept
                        close to his coat, and he pondered the matter as he hung upon the balcony.
                        If Chauvenet was on his way to America it was possible that he would carry
                        with him the important paper whose loss had caused so much anxiety to the
                        Austrian minister; if so, where was it during his stay in Geneva?
                    
                    "The old man's death is only the first step. We require a
                        succession of deaths."
                    "We require three, to be explicit, not more or less. We should be
                        fortunate if the remaining two could be accomplished as easily as
                        Stroebel's."
                    "He was a beast. He is well dead."
                    "That depends on the way you look at it. They seem really to be
                        mourning the old beggar at Vienna. It is the way of a people. They like to
                        be ruled by a savage hand. The people, as you have heard me say before, are
                        fools."
                    The last speaker was a young man whom Armitage had never seen before; he was
                        a decided blond, with close-trimmed straw-colored beard and slightly-curling
                        hair. Opposite him, and facing the door, sat Chauvenet. On the table between
                        them were decanters and liqueur glasses.
                    "I am going to America at once," said Chauvenet, holding
                        his filled glass toward a brass lamp of an old type that hung from the
                        ceiling.
                    "It is probably just as well," said the other.
                        "There's work to do there. We must not forget our more
                        legitimate business in the midst of these pleasant side
                        issues."
                    "The field is easy. After our delightful continental  capitals, where, as you know, one is never
                        quite sure of one's self, it is pleasant to breathe the democratic
                        airs of Washington," remarked Chauvenet.
                    "Particularly so, my dear friend, when one is blessed with your
                        delightful social gifts. I envy you your capacity for making others
                        happy."
                    There was a keen irony in the fellow's tongue and the edge of it
                        evidently touched Chauvenet, who scowled and bent forward with his fingers
                        on the table.
                    "Enough of that, if you please."
                    "As you will, carino; but you will pardon me for
                        offering my condolences on the regrettable departure of la
                            belle Americaine. If you had not been so intent on matters of state
                        you would undoubtedly have found her here. As it is, you are now obliged to
                        see her on her native soil. A month in Washington may do much for you. She
                        is beautiful and reasonably rich. Her brother, the tall captain, is said to
                        be the best horseman in the American army."
                    "Humph! He is an ass," ejaculated Chauvenet.
                    A servant now appeared bearing a fresh bottle of cordial. He was
                        distinguished by a small head upon a tall and powerful body, and bore little
                        resemblance to a house servant. While he brushed the cigar ashes from  the table the men continued their talk without
                        heeding him.
                    Chauvenet and his friend had spoken from the first in French, but in
                        addressing some directions to the servant, the blond, who assumed the rle of
                        host, employed a Servian dialect.
                    "I think we were saying that the mortality list in certain
                        directions will have to be stimulated a trifle before we can do our young
                        friend Francis any good. You have business in America, carino. That paper we filched from old Stroebel strengthens our
                        hold on Francis; but there is still that question as to Karl and Frederick
                        Augustus. Our dear Francis is not satisfied. He wishes to be quite sure that
                        his dear father and brother are dead. We must reassure him, dearest
                        Jules."
                    "Don't be a fool, Durand. You never seem to understand that
                        the United States of America is a trifle larger than a barnyard. And I
                        don't believe those fellows are over there. They're
                        probably lying in wait here somewhere, ready to take advantage of any
                        opportunity,that is, if they are alive. A man can hardly fail to be
                        impressed with the fact that so few lives stand between him
                        and"
                    "The heightsthe heights!" And the young man,  whom Chauvenet called Durand, lifted his tiny
                        glass airily.
                    "Yes; the heights," repeated Chauvenet a little
                        dreamily.
                    "But that declarationthat document! You have never honored me with a
                        glimpse; but you have it put safely away, I dare say."
                    "There is no placebut onethat I dare risk. It is always within easy
                        reach, my dear friend."
                    "You will do well to destroy that document. It is better out of the
                        way."
                    "Your deficiencies in the matter of wisdom are unfortunate. That
                        paper constitutes our chief asset, my dear associate. So long as we have it
                        we are able to keep dear Francis in order. Therefore we shall hold fast to
                        it, remembering that we risked much in removing it from the lamented
                        Stroebel's archives."
                    "Do you say 'risked much'? My valued neck, that is
                        all!" said the other. "You and Winkelried are without
                        gratitude."
                    "You will do well," said Chauvenet, "to keep an
                        eye open in Vienna for the unknown. If you hear murmurs in Hungary one of
                        these fine days! Nothing has happened for some time; therefore much may
                        happen."
                    
                    He glanced at his watch.
                    "I have work in Paris before sailing for New York. Shall we discuss
                        the matter of those Peruvian claims? That is business. These other affairs
                        are more in the nature of delightful diversions, my dear
                        comrade."
                    They drew nearer the table and Durand produced a box of papers over which he
                        bent with serious attention. Armitage had heard practically all of their
                        dialogue, and, what was of equal interest, had been able to study the faces
                        and learn the tones of voice of the two conspirators. He was cramped from
                        his position on the narrow balcony and wet and chilled by the rain, which
                        was now slowly abating. He had learned much that he wished to know, and with
                        an ease that astonished him; and he was well content to withdraw with
                        gratitude for his good fortune.
                    His legs were numb and he clung close to the railing of the little ladder for
                        support as he crept toward the area. At the second story his foot slipped on
                        the wet iron, smooth from long use, and he stumbled down several steps
                        before he recovered himself. He listened a moment, heard nothing but the
                        tinkle of the rain in the spout, then continued his retreat.
                    As he stepped out upon the brick courtyard he was  seized from behind by a pair of strong arms that clasped him tight. In a
                        moment he was thrown across the threshold of a door into an unlighted room,
                        where his captor promptly sat upon him and proceeded to strike a light.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    A LOST CIGARETTE CASE
                    
                        
                            To other woods the trail leads on,
                            To other worlds and new,
                            Where they who keep the secret here
                            Will keep the promise too.
                            
                                Henry A. Beers.
                            
                        
                    
                    The man clenched Armitage about the body with his legs while he struck a
                        match on a box he produced from his pocket. The suddenness with which he had
                        been flung into the kitchen had knocked the breath out of Armitage, and the
                        huge thighs of his captor pinned his arms tight. The match spurted fire and
                        he looked into the face of the servant whom he had seen in the room above.
                        His round head was covered with short, wire-like hair that grew low upon his
                        narrow forehead. Armitage noted, too, the man's bull-like neck,
                        small sharp eyes and bristling mustache. The fitful flash of the match
                        disclosed the rough furniture of a kitchen; the brick flooring and his wet
                        inverness lay cold at Armitage's back.
                    
                    The fellow growled an execration in Servian; then with ponderous difficulty
                        asked a question in German.
                    "Who are you and what do you want here?"
                    Armitage shook his head; and replied in English:
                    "I do not understand."
                    The man struck a series of matches that he might scrutinize his
                        captive's face, then ran his hands over Armitage's pockets
                        to make sure he had no arms. The big fellow was clearly puzzled to find that
                        he had caught a gentleman in water-soaked evening clothes lurking in the
                        area, and as the matter was beyond his wits it only remained for him to
                        communicate with his master. This, however, was not so readily accomplished.
                        He had reasons of his own for not calling out, and there were difficulties
                        in the way of holding the prisoner and at the same time bringing down the
                        men who had gone to the most distant room in the house for their own
                        security.
                    Several minutes passed during which the burly Servian struck his matches and
                        took account of his prisoner; and meanwhile Armitage lay perfectly still,
                        his arms fast numbing from the rough clasp of the stalwart
                        servant's legs. There was nothing to be gained by a struggle in
                        this position, and he knew that the Servian would not risk losing him in the
                        effort to summon the  odd pair who were bent
                        over their papers at the top of the house. The Servian was evidently a man
                        of action.
                    "Get up," he commanded, still in rough German, and he rose
                        in the dark and jerked Armitage after him. There was a moment of silence in
                        which Armitage shook and stretched himself, and then the Servian struck
                        another match and held it close to a revolver which he held pointed at
                        Armitage's head.
                    "I will shoot," he said again in his halting German.
                    "Undoubtedly you will!" and something in the
                        fellow's manner caused Armitage to laugh. He had been caught and he
                        did not at once see any safe issue out of his predicament; but his plight
                        had its preposterous side and the ease with which he had been taken at the
                        very outset of his quest touched his humor. Then he sobered instantly and
                        concentrated his wits upon the immediate situation.
                    The Servian backed away with a match upheld in one hand and the leveled
                        revolver in the other, leaving Armitage in the middle of the kitchen.
                    "I am going to light a lamp and if you move I will kill
                        you," admonished the fellow, and Armitage heard his feet scraping
                        over the brick floor of the kitchen as he backed toward a table that stood
                        against the wall near the outer door.
                    
                    Armitage stood perfectly still. The neighborhood and the house itself were
                        quiet; the two men in the third-story room were probably engrossed with the
                        business at which Armitage had left them; and his immediate affair was with
                        the Servian alone. The fellow continued to mumble his threats; but Armitage
                        had resolved to play the part of an Englishman who understood no German, and
                        he addressed the man sharply in English several times to signify that he did
                        not understand.
                    The Servian half turned toward his prisoner, the revolver in his left hand,
                        while with the fingers of his right he felt laboriously for a lamp that had
                        been revealed by the fitful flashes of the matches. It is not an easy matter
                        to light a lamp when you have only one hand to work with, particularly when
                        you are obliged to keep an eye on a mysterious prisoner of whose character
                        you are ignorant; and it was several minutes before the job was done.
                    "You will go to that corner;" and the Servian translated
                        for his prisoner's benefit with a gesture of the revolver.
                    "Anything to please you, worthy fellow," replied Armitage,
                        and he obeyed with amiable alacrity. The man's object was to get
                        him as far from the inner door as possible 
                        while he called help from above, which was, of course, the wise thing from
                        his point of view, as Armitage recognized.
                    Armitage stood with his back against a rack of pots; the table was at his
                        left and beyond it the door opening upon the court; a barred window was at
                        his right; opposite him was another door that communicated with the interior
                        of the house and disclosed the lower steps of a rude stairway leading
                        upward. The Servian now closed and locked the outer kitchen door with
                        care.
                    Armitage had lost his hat in the area; his light walking-stick lay in the
                        middle of the floor; his inverness coat hung wet and bedraggled about him;
                        his shirt was crumpled and soiled. But his air of good humor and his tame
                        acceptance of capture seemed to increase the Servian's caution, and
                        he backed away toward the inner door with his revolver still pointed at
                        Armitage's head.
                    He began calling lustily up the narrow stair-well in Servian, changing in a
                        moment to German. He made a ludicrous figure, as he held his revolver at
                        arm's length, craning his neck into the passage, and howling until
                        he was red in the face. He paused to listen, then renewed his cries, while
                        Armitage, with his back against the rack of pots, studied the room and made
                        his plans.
                    
                    
                        Armitage stood with his back against a rack of pots Page 68
                        
                    
                    
                    "There is a thief here! I have caught a thief!" yelled the
                        Servian, now exasperated by the silence above. Then, as he relaxed a moment
                        and turned to make sure that his revolver still covered Armitage, there was
                        a sudden sound of steps above and a voice bawled angrily down the
                        stairway:
                    "Zmai, stop your noise and tell me what's the
                        trouble."
                    It was the voice of Durand speaking in the Servian dialect; and Zmai opened
                        his mouth to explain.
                    As the big fellow roared his reply Armitage snatched from the rack a heavy
                        iron boiling-pot, swung it high by the bail with both hands and let it fly
                        with all his might at the Servian's head, upturned in the
                        earnestness of his bawling. On the instant the revolver roared loudly in the
                        narrow kitchen and Armitage seized the brass lamp and flung it from him upon
                        the hearth, where it fell with a great clatter without exploding.
                    It was instantly pitch dark. The Servian had gone down like a felled ox and
                        Armitage at the threshold leaped over him into the hall past the rear stairs
                        down which the men were stumbling, cursing volubly as they came.
                    Armitage had assumed the existence of a front stairway, and now that he was
                        launched upon an unexpected  adventure, he was
                        in a humor to prolong it for a moment, even at further risk. He crept along
                        a dark passage to the front door, found and turned the key to provide
                        himself with a ready exit, then, as he heard the men from above stumble over
                        the prostrate Servian, he bounded up the front stairway, gained the second
                        floor, then the third, and readily found by its light the room that he had
                        observed earlier from the outside.
                    Below there was smothered confusion and the crackling of matches as Durand
                        and Chauvenet sought to grasp the unexpected situation that confronted them.
                        The big servant, Armitage knew, would hardly be able to clear matters for
                        them at once, and he hurriedly turned over the packets of papers that lay on
                        the table. They were claims of one kind and another against several South
                        and Central American republics, chiefly for naval and military supplies, and
                        he merely noted their general character. They were, on the face of it,
                        certified accounts in the usual manner of business. On the back of each had
                        been printed with a rubber stamp the words:
                    
                        
                            Vienna, Paris, Washington.
                        
                        
                            Chauvenet et Durand.
                        
                    
                    Armitage snatched up the coat which Chauvenet had  so carefully placed on the back of his chair, ran his hands through the
                        pockets, found them empty, then gathered the garment tightly in his hands,
                        laughed a little to himself to feel papers sewn into the lining, and laughed
                        again as he tore the lining loose and drew forth a flat linen envelope
                        brilliant with three seals of red wax.
                    Steps sounded below; a man was running up the back stairs; and from the
                        kitchen rose sounds of mighty groanings and cursings in the heavy gutturals
                        of the Servian, as he regained his wits and sought to explain his
                        plight.
                    Armitage picked up a chair, ran noiselessly to the head of the back stairs,
                        and looked down upon Chauvenet, who was hurrying up with a flaming candle
                        held high above his head, its light showing anxiety and fear upon his face.
                        He was half-way up the last flight, and Armitage stood in the dark, watching
                        him with a mixture of curiosity and something, too, of humor. Then he spoke
                        in Frenchin a tone that imitated the cool irony he had noted in
                        Durand's tone:
                    "A few murders more or less! But Von Stroebel was hardly a fair
                        mark, dearest Jules!"
                    With this he sent the chair clattering down the steps, where it struck Jules
                        Chauvenet's legs with a force that 
                        carried him howling lustily backward to the second landing.
                    Armitage turned and sped down the front stairway, hearing renewed clamor from
                        the rear and cries of rage and pain from the second story. In fumbling for
                        the front door he found a hat, and, having lost his own, placed it upon his
                        head, drew his inverness about his shoulders, and went quickly out. A moment
                        later he slipped the catch in the wall door and stepped into the
                        boulevard.
                    The stars were shining among the flying clouds overhead and he drew deep
                        breaths of the freshened air into his lungs as he walked back to the Monte
                        Rosa. Occasionally he laughed quietly to himself, for he still grasped
                        tightly in his hand, safe under his coat, the envelope which Chauvenet had
                        carried so carefully concealed; and several times Armitage muttered to
                        himself:
                    "A few murders, more or less!"
                    At the hotel he changed his clothes, threw the things from his dressing-table
                        into a bag, and announced his departure for Paris by the night express.
                    As he drove to the railway station he felt for his cigarette case, and
                        discovered that it was missing. The loss evidently gave him great concern,
                        for he searched and  researched his pockets and
                        opened his bags at the station to see if he had by any chance overlooked it,
                        but it was not to be found.
                    His annoyance at the loss was balancedcould he have known itby the interest
                        with which, almost before the wall door had closed upon him, two gentlemen
                        one of them still in his shirt sleeves and with a purple lump over his
                        foreheadbent over a gold cigarette case in the dark house on the Boulevard
                        Froissart. It was a pretty trinket, and contained, when found on the kitchen
                        floor, exactly four cigarettes of excellent Turkish tobacco. On one side of
                        it was etched, in shadings of blue and white enamel, a helmet, surmounted by
                        a falcon, poised for flight, and, beneath, the motto Fide non
                            armis. The back bore in English script, written large, the letters
                            F. A.
                    
                    The men stared at each other wonderingly for an instant, then both leaped to
                        their feet.
                    "It isn't possible!" gasped Durand.
                    "It is quite possible," replied Chauvenet. "The
                        emblem is unmistakable. Good God, look!"
                    The sweat had broken out on Chauvenet's face and he leaped to the
                        chair where his coat hung, and caught up the garment with shaking hands. The
                        silk lining fluttered  loose where Armitage had
                        roughly torn out the envelope.
                    "Who is he? Who is he?" whispered Durand, very white of
                        face.
                    "It may beit must be some one deeply concerned."
                    Chauvenet paused, drawing his hand across his forehead slowly; then the color
                        leaped back into his face, and he caught Durand's arm so tight that
                        the man flinched.
                    "There has been a man following me about; I thought be was
                        interested in the Claibornes. He's hereI saw him at the Monte Rosa
                        to-night. God!"
                    He dropped his hand from Durand's arm and struck the table fiercely
                        with his clenched hand.
                    "John ArmitageJohn Armitage! I heard his name in
                        Florence."
                    His eyes were snapping with excitement, and amazement grew in his face.
                    "Who is John Armitage?" demanded Durand sharply; but
                        Chauvenet stared at him in stupefaction for a tense moment, then muttered to
                        himself:
                    "Is it possible? Is it possible?" and his voice was hoarse
                        and his hand trembled as he picked up the cigarette case.
                    
                    "My dear Jules, you act as though you had seen a ghost. Who the
                        devil is Armitage?"
                    Chauvenet glanced about the room cautiously, then bent forward and whispered
                        very low, close to Durand's ear:
                    "Suppose he were the son of the crazy Karl! Suppose he were
                        Frederick Augustus!"
                    "Bah! It is impossible! What is your man Armitage like?"
                        asked Durand irritably.
                    "He is the right age. He is a big fellow and has quite an air. He
                        seems to be without occupation."
                    "Clearly so," remarked Durand ironically. "But he
                        has evidently been watching us. Quite possibly the lamented Stroebel
                        employed him. He may have seen Stroebel here"
                    Chauvenet again struck the table smartly.
                    "Of course he would see Stroebel! Stroebel was the
                        Archduke's friend; Stroebel and this fellow between
                        them"
                    "Stroebel is dead. The Archduke is dead; there can be no manner of
                        doubt of that," said Durand; but doubt was in his tone and in his
                        eyes.
                    "Nothing is certain; it would be like Karl to turn up again with a
                        son to back his claims. They may both be 
                        living. This Armitage is not the ordinary pig of a secret agent. We must
                        find him."
                    "And quickly. There must be"
                    "another death added to our little list before we are quite masters
                        of the situation in Vienna."
                    They gave Zmai orders to remain on guard at the house and went hurriedly out
                        together.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    TOWARD THE WESTERN STARS
                    
                        
                            Her blue eyes sought the west afar,
                            For lovers love the western star.
                            
                                Lay of the Last Minstrel.
                            
                        
                    
                    Geneva is a good point from which to plan flight to any part of the world,
                        for there at the top of Europe the whole continental railway system is
                        easily within your grasp, and you may make your choice of sailing ports. It
                        is, to be sure, rather out of your way to seek a ship at Liverpool unless
                        you expect to gain some particular advantage in doing so. Mr. John Armitage
                        hurried thither in the most breathless haste to catch the King
                            Edward, whereas he might have taken the Touraine
                        at Cherbourg and saved himself a mad scamper; but his satisfaction in
                        finding himself aboard the King Edward was supreme. He was
                        and is, it may be said, a man who salutes the passing days right amiably, no
                        matter how somber their colors.
                    Shirley Claiborne and Captain Richard Claiborne, her  brother, were on deck watching the shipping in the Mersey as
                        the big steamer swung into the channel.
                    "I hope," observed Dick, "that we have shaken off
                        all your transatlantic suitors. That little Chauvenet died easier than I had
                        expected. He never turned up after we left Florence, but I'm not
                        wholly sure that we shan't find him at the dock in New York. And
                        that mysterious Armitage, who spent so much railway fare following us about,
                        and who almost bought you a watch in Geneva, really disappoints me. His
                        persistence had actually compelled my admiration. For a glass-blower he was
                        fairly decent, though, and better than a lot of these little toy men with
                        imitation titles."
                    "Is that an American cruiser? I really believe it is the Tecumseh. What on earth were you talking about,
                        Dick?"
                    Shirley fluttered her handkerchief in the direction of the American flag
                        displayed by the cruiser, and Dick lifted his cap.
                    "I was bidding farewell to your foreign suitors, Shirley, and
                        congratulating myself that as soon as pre et mre get their
                        sea legs they will resume charge of you, and let me look up two or three
                        very presentable specimens of your sex I saw come on board. Your affairs  have annoyed me greatly and I shall be glad to
                        be free of the responsibility."
                    "Thank you, Captain."
                    "And if there are any titled blackguards on board"
                    "You will do dreadfully wicked things to them, won't you,
                        little brother?"
                    "Humph! Thank God, I'm an American!"
                    "That's a worthy sentiment, Richard."
                    "I'd like to give out, as our newspapers say, a signed
                        statement throwing a challenge to all Europe. I wish we'd get into
                        a real war once so we could knock the conceit out of one of their so-called
                        first-class powers. I'd like to lead a regiment right through the
                        most sacred precincts of London; or take an early morning gallop through
                        Berlin to wake up the Dutch. All this talk about hands across the sea and
                        such rot makes me sick. The English are the most benighted and the most
                        conceited and condescending race on earth; the Germans and Austrians are
                        stale beer-vats, and the Italians and French are mere decadents and
                        don't count."
                    "Yes, dearest," mocked Shirley. "Oh, my large
                        brother, I have a confession to make. Please don't indulge in great
                        oaths or stamp a hole in this sturdy deck, but there are flowers in my
                        state-room"
                    
                    "Probably from the Liverpool consulhe's been pestering
                        father to help him get a transfer to a less gloomy hole."
                    "Then I shall intercede myself with the President when I get home.
                        They're orchidsfrom Londonbut with Mr. Armitage's card.
                        Wouldn't that excite you?"
                    "It makes me sick!" and Dick hung heavily on the rail and
                        glared at a passing tug.
                    "They are beautiful orchids. I don't remember when orchids
                        have happened to me before, Richardin such quantities. Now, you really
                        didn't disapprove of him so much, did you? This is probably good-by
                        forever, but he wasn't so bad; and he may be an American, after
                        all."
                    "A common adventurer! Such fellows are always turning up, like bad
                        pennies, or a one-eyed dog. If I should see him again"
                    "Yes, Richard, if you should meet again"
                    "I'd ask him to be good enough to stop following us about,
                        and if he persisted I should muss him up."
                    "Yes; I'm sure you would protect me from his importunities
                        at any hazard," mocked Shirley, turning and leaning against the
                        rail so that she looked along the deck beyond her brother's
                        stalwart shoulders.
                    
                    "Don't be silly," observed Dick, whose eyes were
                        upon a trim yacht that was steaming slowly beneath them.
                    "I shan't, but please don't be violent! Do not
                        murder the poor man, Dickie, dear,"and she took hold of his arm
                        entreatingly"for there he isas tall and mysterious as everand me
                        found guilty with a few of his orchids pinned to my jacket!"
                    "This is good fortune, indeed," said Armitage a moment
                        later when they had shaken hands. "I finished my errand at Geneva
                        unexpectedly and here I am."
                    He smiled at the feebleness of his explanation, and joined in their passing
                        comment on the life of the harbor. He was not so dull but that he felt Dick
                        Claiborne's resentment of his presence on board. He knew perfectly
                        well that his acquaintance with the Claibornes was too slight to be severely
                        strained, particularly where a fellow of Dick Claiborne's high
                        spirit was concerned. He talked with them a few minutes longer, then took
                        himself off; and they saw little of him the rest of the day.
                    Armitage did not share their distinction of a seat at the captain's
                        table, and Dick found him late at night in the smoking-saloon with pipe and
                        book. Armitage nodded and asked him to sit down.
                    "You are a sailor as well as a soldier, Captain. You  are fortunate; I always sit up the first night
                        to make sure the enemy doesn't lay hold of me in my
                        sleep."
                    He tossed his book aside, had brandy and soda brought and offered Claiborne a
                        cigar.
                    "This is not the most fortunate season for crossing; I am sure to
                        fall to-morrow. My father and mother hate the sea particularly and have
                        retired for three days. My sister is the only one of us who is perfectly
                        immune."
                    "Yes; I can well image Miss Claiborne in the good graces of the
                        elements," replied Armitage; and they were silent for several
                        minutes while a big Russian, who was talking politics in a distant corner
                        with a very small and solemn German, boomed out his views on the Eastern
                        question in a tremendous bass.
                    Dick Claiborne was a good deal amused at finding himself sitting beside
                        Armitage,enjoying, indeed, his fellow traveler's hospitality; but
                        Armitage, he was forced to admit, bore all the marks of a gentleman. He had,
                        to be sure, followed Shirley about, but even the young man's manner
                        in this was hardly a matter at which he could cavil. And there was something
                        altogether likable in Armitage; his very composure was attractive to
                        Claiborne; and the bold lines of his figure were not wasted on the young
                        officer. In the silence, while they smoked,  he
                        noted the perfect taste that marked Armitage's belongings, which to
                        him meant more, perhaps, than the steadiness of the man's eyes or
                        the fine lines of his face. Unconsciously Claiborne found himself watching
                        Armitage's strong ringless hands, and he knew that such a hand,
                        well kept though it appeared, had known hard work, and that the long supple
                        fingers were such as might guide a tiller fearlessly or set a flag daringly
                        upon a fire-swept parapet.
                    Armitage was thinking rapidly of something he had suddenly resolved to say to
                        Captain Claiborne. He knew that the Claibornes were a family of distinction;
                        the father was an American diplomat and lawyer of wide reputation; the
                        family stood for the best of which America is capable, and they were
                        homeward bound to the American capital where their social position and the
                        father's fame made them conspicuous.
                    Armitage put down his cigar and bent toward Claiborne, speaking with quiet
                        directness.
                    "Captain Claiborne, I was introduced to you at Geneva by Mr.
                        Singleton. You may have observed me several times previously at Venice,
                        Rome, Florence, Paris, Berlin. I certainly saw you! I shall not deny that I
                        intentionally followed you, nor"John Armitage smiled,  then grew grave again"can I make any
                        adequate apology for doing so."
                    Claiborne looked at Armitage wonderingly. The man's attitude and
                        tone were wholly serious and compelled respect. Claiborne nodded and threw
                        away his cigar that he might give his whole attention to what Armitage might
                        have to say.
                    "A man does not like to have his sister forming the acquaintances of
                        persons who are not properly vouched for. Except for Singleton you know
                        nothing of me; and Singleton knows very little of me, indeed."
                    Claiborne nodded. He felt the color creeping into his cheeks consciously as
                        Armitage touched upon this matter.
                    "I speak to you as I do because it is your right to know who and
                        what I am, for I am not on the King Edward by accident but
                        by intention, and I am going to Washington because your sister lives
                        there."
                    Claiborne smiled in spite of himself.
                    "But, my dear sir, this is most extraordinary! I don't know
                        that I care to hear any more; by listening I seem to be encouraging you to
                        follow usit's altogether too unusual. It's almost
                        preposterous!"
                    And Dick Claiborne frowned severely; but Armitage still met his eyes
                        gravely.
                    
                    "It's only decent for a man to give his references when
                        it's natural for them to be required. I was educated at Trinity
                        College, Toronto. I spent a year at the Harvard Law School. And I am not a
                        beggar utterly. I own a ranch in Montana that actually pays and a thousand
                        acres of the best wheat land in Nebraska. At the Bronx Loan and Trust
                        Company in New York I have securities to a considerable amount,I am
                        perfectly willing that any one who is at all interested should inquire of
                        the Trust Company officers as to my standing with them. If I were asked to
                        state my occupation I should have to say that I am a cattle herderwhat you
                        call a cowboy. I can make my living in the practice of the business almost
                        anywhere from New Mexico north to the Canadian line. I flatter myself that I
                        am pretty good at it," and John Armitage smiled and took a
                        cigarette from a box on the table and lighted it.
                    Dick Claiborne was greatly interested in what Armitage had said, and he
                        struggled between an inclination to encourage further confidence and a
                        feeling that he should, for Shirley's sake, make it clear to this
                        young stranger that it was of no consequence to any member of the Claiborne
                        family who he was or what might be the extent of his lands or the
                        unimpeachable character  of his investments.
                        But it was not so easy to turn aside a fellow who was so big of frame and
                        apparently so sane and so steady of purpose as this Armitage. And there was,
                        too, the further consideration that while Armitage was volunteering
                        gratuitous information, and assuming an interest in his affairs by the
                        Claibornes that was wholly unjustified, there was also the other side of the
                        matter: that his explanations proceeded from motives of delicacy that were
                        praiseworthy. Dick was puzzled, and piqued besides, to find that his
                        resources as a big protecting brother were so soon exhausted. What Armitage
                        was asking was the right to seek his sister Shirley's hand in
                        marriage, and the thing was absurd. Moreover, who was John Armitage?
                    The question startled Claiborne into a realization of the fact that Armitage
                        had volunteered considerable information without at all answering this
                        question. Dick Claiborne was a human being, and curious.
                    "Pardon me," he asked, "but are you an
                        Englishman?"
                    "I am not," answered Armitage. "I have been so
                        long in America that I feel as much at home there as any-wherebut I am
                        neither English nor American by birth; I am, on the other hand"
                    
                    He hesitated for the barest second, and Claiborne was sensible of an
                        intensification of interest; now at last there was to be a revelation that
                        amounted to something.
                    "On the other hand," Armitage repeated, "I was
                        born at Fontainebleau, where my parents lived for only a few months; but I
                        do not consider that that fact makes me a Frenchman. My mother is dead. My
                        father diedvery recently. I have been in America enough to know that a
                        foreigner is often under suspicionparticularly if he have a title! My
                        distinction is that I am a foreigner without one!" John Armitage
                        laughed.
                    "It is, indeed, a real merit," declared Dick, who felt that
                        something was expected of him. In spite of himself, he found much to like in
                        John Armitage. He particularly despised sham and pretense, and he had been
                        won by the evident sincerity of Armitage's wish to appear well in
                        his eyes.
                    "And now," said Armitage, "I assure you that I am
                        not in the habit of talking so much about myselfand if you will overlook
                        this offense I promise not to bore you again."
                    "I have been interested," remarked Dick;
                        "and," he added, "I can not do less than thank
                        you, Mr. Armitage."
                    
                    Armitage began talking of the American armyits strength and weaknesseswith an
                        intimate knowledge that greatly surprised and interested the young officer;
                        and when they separated presently it was with a curious mixture of liking
                        and mystification that Claiborne reviewed their talk.
                    The next day brought heavy weather, and only hardened sea-goers were abroad.
                        Armitage, breakfasting late, was not satisfied that he had acted wisely in
                        speaking to Captain Claiborne; but he had, at any rate, eased in some degree
                        his own conscience, and he had every intention of seeing all that he could
                        of Shirley Claiborne during these days of their fellow-voyaging.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    ON THE DARK DECK
                    
                        
                            Ease, of all good gifts the best.
                            War and wave at last decree:
                            Love alone denies us rest,
                            Crueler than sword or sea.
                            
                                William Watson.
                            
                        
                    
                    "I am Columbus every time I cross," said Shirley.
                        "What lies out there in the west is an undiscovered
                        country."
                    "Then I shall have to take the part of the rebellious and doubting
                        crew. There is no America, and we're sure to get into trouble if we
                        don't turn back."
                    "You shall be clapped into irons and fed on bread and water, and
                        turned over to the Indians as soon as we reach land."
                    "Don't starve me! Let me hang from the yard-arm at once, or
                        walk the plank. I choose the hour immediately after dinner for my
                        obsequies!"
                    "Choose a cheerfuller word!" pleaded Shirley.
                    "I am sorry to suggest mortality, but I was trying to  let my imagination play a little on the
                        eternal novelty of travel, and you have dropped me down 'full
                        faddom five.'"
                    "I'm sorry, but I have only revealed an honest tendency of
                        character. Piracy is probably a more profitable line of business than
                        discovery. Discoverers benefit mankind at great sacrifice and expense, and
                        die before they can receive the royal thanks. A pirate's business
                        is all done over the counter on a strictly cash basis."
                    They were silent for a moment, continuing their tramp. Fair weather was
                        peopling the decks. Dick Claiborne was engrossed with a vivacious California
                        girl, and Shirley saw him only at meals; but he and Armitage held night
                        sessions in the smoking-room, with increased liking on both sides.
                    "Armitage isn't a bad sort," Dick admitted to
                        Shirley. "He's either an awful liar, or he's seen
                        a lot of the world."
                    "Of course, he has to travel to sell his glassware,"
                        observed Shirley. "I'm surprised at your seeming intimacy
                        with a mere 'peddler,'and you an officer in the finest
                        cavalry in the world."
                    "Well, if he's a peddler he's a high-class
                        oneprobably the junior member of the firm that owns the works."
                    
                    Armitage saw something of all the Claibornes every day in the pleasant
                        intimacy of ship life, and Hilton Claiborne found the young man an
                        interesting talker. Judge Claiborne is, as every one knows, the best-posted
                        American of his time in diplomatic history; and when they were together
                        Armitage suggested topics that were well calculated to awaken the old
                        lawyer's interest.
                    "The glass-blower's a deep one, all right,"
                        remarked Dick to Shirley. "He jollies me occasionally, just to show
                        there's no hard feeling; then he jollies the governor; and when I
                        saw our mother footing it on his arm this afternoon I almost fell in a
                        faint. I wish you'd hold on to him tight till we're
                        docked. My little friend from California is crazy about himand I
                        haven't dared tell her he's only a drummer; such a fling
                        would be unchivalrous of me"
                    "It would, Richard. Be a generous foewhetherwhether you can afford
                        to be or not!"
                    "My sistermy own sister says this to me! This is quite the
                        unkindest. I'm going to offer myself to the daughter of the
                        redwoods at once."
                    Shirley and Armitage talkedas people will on shipboardof everything under the
                        sun. Shirley's enthusiasms were in themselves interesting; but she
                        was  informed in the world's larger
                        affairs, as became the daughter of a man who was an authority in such
                        matters, and found it pleasant to discuss them with Armitage. He felt the
                        poetic quality in her; it was that which had first appealed to him; but he
                        did not know that something of the same sort in himself touched her; it was
                        enough for those days that he was courteous and amusing, and gained a trifle
                        in her eyes from the fact that he had no tangible background.
                    Then came the evening of the fifth day. They were taking a turn after dinner
                        on the lighted deck. The spring stars hung faint and far through thin clouds
                        and the wind was keen from the sea. A few passengers were out; the deck
                        stewards went about gathering up rugs and chairs for the night.
                    "Time oughtn't to be reckoned at all at sea, so that people
                        who feel themselves getting old might sail forth into the deep and defy the
                        old man with the hour-glass."
                    "I like the idea. Such people could become fisherspermanently, and
                        grow very wise from so much brain food."
                    "They wouldn't eat, Mr. Armitage. Brain-food forsooth! You
                        talk like a breakfast-food advertisement. My ideamine, please noteis for
                        such fortunate people  to sail in pretty little
                        boats with orange-tinted sails and pick up lost dreams. I got a hint of that
                        in a pretty poem once
                    
                        "'Time seemed to pause a little pace,
                        I heard a dream go by.'"
                    
                    "But out here in mid-ocean a little boat with lateen sails
                        wouldn't have much show. And dreams passing overthe idea is pretty,
                        and is creditable to your imagination. But I thought your fancy was more
                        militant. Now, for example, you like battle pictures" he said, and
                        paused inquiringly.
                    She looked at him quickly.
                    "How do you know I do?"
                    "You like Detaille particularly."
                    "Am I to defend my taste?what's the answer, if you
                        don't mind?"
                    "Detaille is much to my liking, also; but I prefer Flameng, as a
                        strictly personal matter. That was a wonderful collection of military and
                        battle pictures shown in Paris last winter."
                    She half withdrew her hand from his arm, and turned away. The sea winds did
                        not wholly account for the sudden color in her cheeks. She had seen Armitage
                        in Parisin cafs, at the opera, but not at the great exhibition  of world-famous battle pictures; yet
                        undoubtedly he had seen her; and she remembered with instant consciousness
                        the hours of absorption she had spent before those canvases.
                    "It was a public exhibition, I believe; there was no great harm in
                        seeing it."
                    "No; there certainly was not!" He laughed, then was serious
                        at once. Shirley's tense, arrested figure, her bright, eager eyes,
                        her parted lips, as he saw her before the battle pictures in the gallery at
                        Paris, came up before him and gave him pause. He could not play upon that
                        stolen glance or tease her curiosity in respect to it. If this were a ship
                        flirtation, it might be well enough; but the very sweetness and
                        open-heartedness of her youth shielded her. It seemed to him in that moment
                        a contemptible and unpardonable thing that he had followed her aboutand
                        caught her, there at Paris, in an exalted mood, to which she had been
                        wrought by the moving incidents of war.
                    "I was in Paris during the exhibition," he said quietly.
                        "Ormsby, the American painterthe man who did the High
                            Tide at Gettysburgis an acquaintance of mine."
                    "Oh!"
                    It was Ormsby's painting that had particularly captivated  Shirley. She had returned to it day after day;
                        and the thought that Armitage had taken advantage of her deep interest in
                        Pickett's charging gray line was annoying, and she abruptly changed
                        the subject.
                    Shirley had speculated much as to the meaning of Armitage's remark
                        at the carriage door in Genevathat he expected the slayer of the old
                        Austrian prime minister to pass that way. Armitage had not referred to the
                        crime in any way in his talks with her on the King Edward;
                        their conversations had been pitched usually in a light and frivolous key,
                        or if one were disposed to be serious the other responded in a note of
                        levity.
                    "We're all imperialists at heart," said Shirley,
                        referring to a talk between them earlier in the day. "We Americans
                        are hungry for empire; we're simply waiting for the man on
                        horseback to gallop down Broadway and up Fifth Avenue with a troop of
                        cavalry at his heels and proclaim the new dispensation."
                    "And before he'd gone a block a big Irish policeman would
                        arrest him for disorderly conduct or disturbing the peace, or for giving a
                        show without a license, and the republic would continue to do business at
                        the old stand."
                    "No; the police would have been bribed in advance,  and would deliver the keys of the city to the
                        new emperor at the door of St. Patrick's Cathedral, and his majesty
                        would go to Sherry's for luncheon, and sign a few decrees, and
                        order the guillotine set up in Union Square. Do you follow me, Mr.
                        Armitage?"
                    "Yes; to the very steps of the guillotine, Miss Claiborne. But the
                        looting of the temples and the plundering of banksif the thing is bound to
                        beI should like to share in the general joy. But I have an idea, Miss
                        Claiborne," he exclaimed, as though with inspiration.
                    "Yesyou have an idea"
                    "Let me be the man on horseback; and you might be"
                    "Yesthe suspense is terrible!what might I be, your
                        Majesty?"
                    "Well, we should call you"
                    He hesitated, and she wondered whether he would be bold enough to meet the
                        issue offered by this turn of their nonsense.
                    "I seem to give your Majesty difficulty; the silence isn't
                        flattering," she said mockingly; but she was conscious of a certain
                        excitement as she walked the deck beside him.
                    "Oh, pardon me! The difficulty is only as to title  you would, of course, occupy the dais; but
                        whether you should be queen or empressthat's the rub! If America is
                        to be an empire, then of course you would be an empress. So there you are
                        answered."
                    They passed laughingly on to the other phases of the matter in the whimsical
                        vein that was natural in her, and to which he responded. They watched the
                        lights of an east-bound steamer that was passing near. The exchange of
                        rocket signalsthat pretty and graceful parley between ships that pass in the
                        nightinterested them for a moment. Then the deck lights went out so suddenly
                        it seemed that a dark curtain had descended and shut them in with the
                        sea.
                    "Accident to the dynamowe shall have the lights on in a
                        moment!" shouted the deck officer, who stood near, talking to a
                        passenger.
                    "Shall we go in?" asked Armitage.
                    "Yes, it is getting cold," replied Shirley.
                    For a moment they were quite alone on the dark deck, though they heard voices
                        near at hand.
                    They were groping their way toward the main saloon, where they had left Mr.
                        and Mrs. Claiborne, when Shirley was aware of some one lurking near. A
                        figure seemed to be crouching close by, and she felt its furtive  movements and knew that it had passed but
                        remained a few feet away. Her hand on Armitage's arm tightened.
                    "What is that?there is some one following us," she
                        said.
                    At the same moment Armitage, too, became aware of the presence of a stooping
                        figure behind him. He stopped abruptly and faced about.
                    "Stand quite still, Miss Claiborne."
                    He peered about, and instantly, as though waiting for his voice, a tall
                        figure rose not a yard from him and a long arm shot high above his head and
                        descended swiftly. They were close to the rail, and a roll of the ship sent
                        Armitage off his feet and away from his assailant. Shirley at the same
                        moment threw out her hands, defensively or for support, and clutched the arm
                        and shoulder of the man who had assailed Armitage. He had driven a knife at
                        John Armitage, and was poising himself for another attempt when Shirley
                        seized his arm. As he drew back a fold of his cloak still lay in
                        Shirley's grasp, and she gave a sharp little cry as the figure,
                        with a quick jerk, released the cloak and slipped away into the shadows. A
                        moment later the lights were restored, and she saw Armitage regarding
                        ruefully a long slit in the left arm of his ulster.
                    
                    "Are you hurt? What has happened?" she demanded.
                    "It must have been a sea-serpent," he replied,
                        laughing.
                    The deck officer regarded them curiously as they blinked in the glare of
                        light, and asked whether anything was wrong. Armitage turned the matter
                        off.
                    "I guess it was a sea-serpent," he said. "It bit a
                        hole in my ulster, for which I am not grateful." Then in a lower
                        tone to Shirley: "That was certainly a strange proceeding. I am
                        sorry you were startled; and I am under greatest obligations to you, Miss
                        Claiborne. Why, you actually pulled the fellow away!"
                    "Oh, no," she returned lightly, but still breathing hard;
                        "it was the instinct of self-preservation. I was unsteady on my
                        feet for a moment, and sought something to take hold of. That pirate was the
                        nearest thing, and I caught hold of his cloak; I'm sure it was a
                        cloak, and that makes me sure he was a human villain of some sort. He
                        didn't feel in the least like a sea-serpent. But some one tried to
                        injure youit is no jesting matter"
                    "Some lunatic escaped from the steerage, probably. I shall report it
                        to the officers."
                    "Yes, it should be reported," said Shirley.
                    "It was very strange. Why, the deck of the King
                            Edward
                         is the safest place in the world; but
                        it's something to have had hold of a sea-serpent, or a pirate! I
                        hope you will forgive me for bringing you into such an encounter; but if you
                        hadn't caught his cloak"
                    Armitage was uncomfortable, and anxious to allay her fears. The incident was
                        by no means trivial, as he knew. Passengers on the great transatlantic
                        steamers are safeguarded by every possible means; and the fact that he had
                        been attacked in the few minutes that the deck lights had been out of order
                        pointed to an espionage that was both close and daring. He was greatly
                        surprised and more shaken than he wished Shirley to believe. The thing was
                        disquieting enough, and it could not but impress her strangely that he, of
                        all the persons on board, should have been the object of so unusual an
                        assault. He was in the disagreeable plight of having subjected her to
                        danger, and as they entered the brilliant saloon he freed himself of the
                        ulster with its telltale gash and sought to minimize her impression of the
                        incident.
                    Shirley did not refer to the matter again, but resolved to keep her own
                        counsel. She felt that any one who would accept the one chance in a thousand
                        of striking down an enemy on a steamer deck must be animated by  very bitter hatred. She knew that to speak of
                        the affair to her father or brother would be to alarm them and prejudice
                        them against John Armitage, about whom her brother, at least, had
                        entertained doubts. And it is not reassuring as to a man of whom little or
                        nothing is known that he is menaced by secret enemies.
                    The attack had found Armitage unprepared and off guard, but with swift
                        reaction his wits were at work. He at once sought the purser and scrutinized
                        every name on the passenger list. It was unlikely that a steerage passenger
                        could reach the saloon deck unobserved; a second cabin passenger might do
                        so, however, and he sought among the names in the second cabin list for a
                        clue. He did not believe that Chauvenet or Durand had boarded the King Edward. He himself had made the boat only by a quick
                        dash, and he had left those two gentlemen at Geneva with much to
                        consider.
                    It was, however, quite within the probabilities that they would send some one
                        to watch him, for the two men whom he had overheard in the dark house on the
                        Boulevard Froissart were active and resourceful rascals, he had no doubt.
                        Whether they would be able to make anything of the cigarette case he had
                        stupidly left behind he could not conjecture; but the importance of
                        recovering  the packet he had cut from
                        Chauvenet's coat was not a trifle that rogues of their caliber
                        would ignore. There was, the purser said, a sick man in the second cabin,
                        who had kept close to his berth. The steward believed the man to be a
                        continental of some sort, who spoke bad German. He had taken the boat at
                        Liverpool, paid for his passage in gold, and, complaining of illness,
                        retired, evidently for the voyage. His name was Peter Ludovic, and the
                        steward described him in detail.
                    "Big fellow; bullet head; bristling mustache; small
                        eyes"
                    "That will do," said Armitage, grinning at the ease with
                        which he identified the man.
                    "You understand that it is wholly irregular for us to let such a
                        matter pass without acting" said the purser.
                    "It would serve no purpose, and might do harm. I will take the
                        responsibility."
                    And John Armitage made a memorandum in his notebook:
                    
                        
                            "Zmai; travels as Peter Ludovic."
                        
                    
                    Armitage carried the envelope which he had cut from Chauvenet's coat
                        pinned into an inner pocket of his waistcoat, and since boarding the King Edward he had  examined
                        it twice daily to see that it was intact. The three red wax seals were in
                        blank, replacing those of like size that had originally been affixed to the
                        envelope; and at once after the attack on the dark deck he opened the packet
                        and examined the paperssome half-dozen sheets of thin linen, written in a
                        clerk's clear hand in black ink. There had been no mistake in the
                        matter; the packet which Chauvenet had purloined from the old prime minister
                        at Vienna had come again into Armitage's hands. He was daily
                        tempted to destroy it and cast it in bits to the sea winds; but he was
                        deterred by the remembrance of his last interview with the old prime
                        minister.
                    "Do something for Austriasomething for the Empire." These
                        phrases repeated themselves over and over again in his mind until they rose
                        and fell with the cadence of the high, wavering voice of the Cardinal
                        Archbishop of Vienna as he chanted the mass of requiem for Count Ferdinand
                        von Stroebel.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    "THE KING IS DEAD; LONG LIVE THE
                        KING"
                    
                        
                            Low he lies, yet high and great
                            Looms he, lying thus in state.
                            How exalted o'er ye when
                            Dead, my lords and gentlemen!
                            
                                James Whitcomb Riley.
                            
                        
                    
                    John Armitage lingered in New York for a week, not to press the Claibornes
                        too closely, then went to Washington. He wrote himself down on the register
                        of the New American as John Armitage, Cinch Tight, Montana, and took a suite
                        of rooms high up, with an outlook that swept Pennsylvania Avenue. It was on
                        the evening of a bright April day that he thus established himself; and
                        after he had unpacked his belongings he stood long at the window and watched
                        the lights leap out of the dusk over the city. He was in Washington because
                        Shirley Claiborne lived there, and he knew that even if he wished to do so
                        he could no longer throw an air of inadvertence into his meetings with her.
                        He had  been very lonely in those days when he
                        first saw her abroad; the sight of her had lifted his mood of depression;
                        and now, after those enchanted hours at sea, his coming to Washington had
                        been inevitable.
                    Many things passed through his mind as he stood at the open window. His life,
                        he felt, could never be again as it had been before, and he sighed deeply as
                        he recalled his talk with the old prime minister at Geneva. Then he laughed
                        quietly as he remembered Chauvenet and Durand and the dark house on the
                        Boulevard Froissart; but the further recollection of the attack made on his
                        life on the deck of the King Edward sobered him, and he
                        turned away from the window impatiently. He had seen the sick second-cabin
                        passenger leave the steamer at New York, but had taken no trouble either to
                        watch or to avoid him. Very likely the man was under instructions, and had
                        been told to follow the Claibornes home; and the thought of their
                        identification with himself by his enemies angered him. Chauvenet was likely
                        to appear in Washington at any time, and would undoubtedly seek the
                        Claibornes at once. The fact that the man was a scoundrel might, in some
                        circumstances, have afforded Armitage comfort, but here again
                        Armitage's mood grew dark. Jules Chauvenet was undoubtedly  a rascal of a shrewd and dangerous type; but
                        who, pray, was John Armitage?
                    The bell in his entry rang, and he flashed on the lights and opened the
                        door.
                    "Well, I like this! Setting yourself up here in gloomy splendor and
                        never saying a word. You never deserved to have any friends, John
                        Armitage!"
                    "Jim Sanderson, come in!" Armitage grasped the hands of a
                        red-bearded giant of forty, the possessor of alert brown eyes and a big
                        voice.
                    "It's my rural habit of reading the register every night in
                        search of constituents that brings me here. They said they guessed you were
                        in, so I just came up to see whether you were opening a poker game or had
                        come to sneak a claim past the watch-dog of the treasury."
                    The caller threw himself into a chair and rolled a fat, unlighted cigar about
                        in his mouth. "You're a peach, all right, and as
                        offensively hale and handsome as ever. When are you going to the
                        ranch?"
                    "Well, not just immediately; I want to sample the flesh-pots for a
                        day or two."
                    "You're getting soft,that's what's the
                        matter with you! You're afraid of the spring zephyrs on the Montana
                             range. Well, I'll admit that
                        it's rather more diverting here."
                    "There is no debating that, Senator. How do you like being a
                        statesman? It was so sudden and all that. I read an awful roast of you in an
                        English paper. They took your election to the Senate as another evidence of
                        the complete domination of our politics by the plutocrats."
                    Sanderson winked prodigiously.
                    "The papers have rather skinned me; but on the
                        whole, I'll do very well. They say it isn't respectable to
                        be a senator these days, but they oughtn't to hold it up against a
                        man that he's rich. If the Lord put silver in the mountains of
                        Montana and let me dig it out, it's nothing against me, is
                        it?"
                    "Decidedly not! And if you want to invest it in a senatorship
                        it's the Lord's hand again."
                    "Why sure!" and the Senator from Montana winked once more.
                        "But it's expensive. I've got to be elected again
                        next winterI'm only filling out Billings' termand
                        I'm not sure I can go up against it."
                    "But you are nothing if not unselfish. If the good of the country
                        demands it you'll not falter, if I know you."
                    "There's hot water heat in this hotel, so please turn  off the hot air. I saw your foreman in Helena
                        the last time I was out there, and he was sober. I mention the fact, knowing
                        that I'm jeopardizing my reputation for veracity, but it's
                        the Lord's truth. Of course you spent Christmas at the old home in
                        Englandone of those yule-log and plum-pudding Christmases you read of in
                        novels. You Englishmen"
                    "My dear Sanderson, don't call me English! I've
                        told you a dozen times that I'm not English."
                    "So you did; so you did! I'd forgotten that you're
                        so damned sensitive about it;" and Sanderson's eyes
                        regarded Armitage intently for a moment, as though he were trying to recall
                        some previous discussion of the young man's nativity.
                    "I offer you free swing at the bar, Senator. May I summon a Montana
                        cocktail? You taught me the ingredients oncethree dashes orange bitters; two
                        dashes acid phosphate; half a jigger of whisky; half a jigger of Italian
                        vermuth. You undermined the constitutions of half Montana with that
                        mess."
                    Sanderson reached for his hat with sudden dejection.
                    "The sprinkling cart for me! I've got a nerve specialist
                        engaged by the year to keep me out of sanatoriums. See here, I want you to
                        go with us to-night to the Secretary  of
                        State's push. Not many of the Montana boys get this far from home,
                        and I want you for exhibition purposes. Say, John, when I saw Cinch Tight,
                        Montana, written on the register down there it increased my circulation
                        seven beats! You're all right, and I guess you're about as
                        good an American as they makeanywhere John Armitage!"
                    The function for which the senator from Montana provided an invitation for
                        Armitage was a large affair in honor of several new ambassadors. At ten
                        o'clock Senator Sanderson was introducing Armitage right and left
                        as one of his representative constituents. Armitage and he owned adjoining
                        ranches in Montana, and Sanderson called upon his neighbor to stand up
                        boldly for their state before the minions of effete monarchies.
                    Mrs. Sanderson had asked Armitage to return to her for a little Montana talk,
                        as she put it, after the first rush of their entrance was over, and as he
                        waited in the drawing-room for an opportunity of speaking to her, he chatted
                        with Franzel, an attach of the Austrian embassy, to whom Sanderson had
                        introduced him. Franzel was a gloomy young man with a monocle, and he was
                        waiting for a particular girl, who happened to be the daughter of the
                        Spanish Ambassador. And, this being  his
                        object, he had chosen his position with care, near the door of the
                        drawing-room, and Armitage shared for the moment the advantage that lay in
                        the Austrian's point of view. Armitage had half expected that the
                        Claibornes would be present at a function as comprehensive of the higher
                        official world as this, and he intended asking Mrs. Sanderson if she knew
                        them as soon as opportunity offered. The Austrian attach proved tiresome,
                        and Armitage was about to drop him, when suddenly he caught sight of Shirley
                        Claiborne at the far end of the broad hall. Her head was turned partly
                        toward him; he saw her for an instant through the throng; then his eyes fell
                        upon Chauvenet at her side, talking with liveliest animation. He was not
                        more than her own height, and his profile presented the clean, sharp effect
                        of a cameo. The vivid outline of his dark face held Armitage's
                        eyes; then as Shirley passed on through an opening in the crowd her escort
                        turned, holding the way open for her, and Armitage met the man's
                        gaze.
                    It was with an accented gravity that Armitage nodded his head to some
                        declaration of the melancholy attach at this moment. He had known when he
                        left Geneva that he had not done with Jules Chauvenet; but the
                        man's prompt appearance surprised Armitage. He ran  over the names of the steamers by which
                        Chauvenet might easily have sailed from either a German or a French port and
                        reached Washington quite as soon as himself. Chauvenet was in Washington, at
                        any rate, and not only there, but socially accepted and in the good graces
                        of Shirley Claiborne.
                    The somber attach was speaking of the Japanese.
                    "They must be crushedcrushed," said Franzel. The two had
                        been conversing in French.
                    "Yes, he must be crushed," returned
                        Armitage absent-mindedly, in English; then, remembering himself, he repeated
                        the affirmation in French, changing the pronoun.
                    Mrs. Sanderson was now free. She was a pretty, vivacious woman, much younger
                        than her stalwart husband, a college graduate whom he had found teaching
                        school near one of his silver mines.
                    "Welcome once more, constituent! We're proud to see you, I
                        can tell you. Our host owns some marvelous tapestries and they're
                        hung out to-night for the world to see." She guided Armitage toward
                        the Secretary's gallery on an upper floor. Their host was almost as
                        famous as a connoisseur as for his achievements in diplomacy, and the
                        gallery was a large apartment in which  every
                        article of furniture, as well as the paintings, tapestries and specimens of
                        pottery, was the careful choice of a thoroughly cultivated taste.
                    "It isn't merely an art gallery; it's the most
                        beautiful room in America," murmured Mrs. Sanderson.
                    "I can well believe it. There's my favorite Vibert,I
                        wondered what had become of it."
                    "It isn't surprising that the Secretary is making a great
                        reputation by his dealings with foreign powers. It's a poor
                        ambassador who could not be persuaded after an hour in this splendid room.
                        The ordinary affairs of life should not be mentioned here. A king's
                        coronation would not be out of place,in fact, there's a chair in
                        the corner against that Gobelin that would serve the situation. The old
                        gentleman by that cabinet is the Baron von Marhof, the Ambassador from
                        Austria-Hungary. He's a brother-in-law of Count von Stroebel, who
                        was murdered so horribly in a railway carriage a few weeks
                        ago."
                    "Ah, to be sure! I haven't seen the Baron in years. He has
                        changed little."
                    "Then you knew him,in the old country?"
                    "Yes; I used to see himwhen I was a boy," remarked
                        Armitage.
                    
                    Mrs. Sanderson glanced at Armitage sharply. She had dined at his ranch house
                        in Montana and knew that he lived like a gentleman,that his house, its
                        appointments and service were unusual for a western ranchman. And she
                        recalled, too, that she and her husband had often speculated as to
                        Armitage's antecedents and history, without arriving at any
                        conclusion in regard to him.
                    The room had slowly filled and they strolled about, dividing attention
                        between distinguished personages and the not less celebrated works of
                        art.
                    "Oh, by the way, Mr. Armitage, there's the girl I have
                        chosen for you to marry. I suppose it would be just as well for you to meet
                        her now, though that dark little foreigner seems to be monopolizing
                        her."
                    "I am wholly agreeable," laughed Armitage. "The
                        sooner the better, and be done with it."
                    "Don't be so frivolous. Thereyou can look safely now.
                        She's stopped to speak to that bald and pink Justice of the Supreme
                        Court,the girl with the brown eyes and hair,have a care!"
                    Shirley and Chauvenet left the venerable Justice, and Mrs. Sanderson
                        intercepted them at once.
                    "To think of all these beautiful things in our own.
                    
                    America!" exclaimed Shirley. "And you, Mr.
                        Armitage,"
                    "Among the other curios, Miss Claiborne," laughed John,
                        taking her hand.
                    "But I haven't introduced you yet"began Mrs.
                        Sanderson, puzzled.
                    "No; the King Edward did that. We crossed
                        together. Oh, Monsieur Chauvenet, let me present Mr. Armitage,"
                        said Shirley, seeing that the men had not spoken.
                    The situation amused Armitage and he smiled rather more broadly than was
                        necessary in expressing his pleasure at meeting Monsieur Chauvenet. They
                        regarded each other with the swift intentness of men who are used to the
                        sharp exercise of their eyes; and when Armitage turned toward Shirley and
                        Mrs. Sanderson, he was aware that Chauvenet continued to regard him with
                        fixed gaze.
                    "Miss Claiborne is a wonderful sailor; the Atlantic is a little
                        tumultuous at times in the spring, but she reported to the captain every
                        day."
                    "Miss Claiborne is nothing if not extraordinary," declared
                        Mrs. Sanderson with frank admiration.
                    "The word seems to have been coined for her," said  Chauvenet, his white teeth showing under his
                        thin black mustache.
                    "And still leaves the language distinguished chiefly for its
                        poverty," added Armitage; and the men bowed to Shirley and then to
                        Mrs. Sanderson, and again to each other. It was like a rehearsal of some
                        trifle in a comedy.
                    "How charming!" laughed Mrs. Sanderson. "And this
                        lovely room is just the place for it."
                    They were still talking together as Franzel, with whom Armitage had spoken
                        below, entered hurriedly. He held a crumpled note, whose contents, it
                        seemed, had shaken him out of his habitual melancholy composure.
                    "Is Baron von Marhof in the room?" he asked of Armitage,
                        fumbling nervously at his monocle.
                    The Austrian Ambassador, with several ladies, and led by Senator Sanderson,
                        was approaching.
                    The attach hurried to his chief and addressed him in a low tone. The
                        Ambassador stopped, grew very white, and stared at the messenger for a
                        moment in blank unbelief.
                    The young man now repeated, in English, in a tone that could be heard in all
                        parts of the hushed room:
                    "His Majesty, the Emperor Johann Wilhelm, died  suddenly to-night, in Vienna," he said, and gave his
                        arm to his chief.
                    It was a strange place for the delivery of such a message, and the
                        strangeness of it was intensified to Shirley by the curious glance that
                        passed between John Armitage and Jules Chauvenet. Shirley remembered
                        afterward that as the attach's words rang out in the room, Armitage
                        started, elenched his hands, and caught his breath in a manner very uncommon
                        in men unless they are greatly moved. The Ambassador walked directly from
                        the room with bowed head, and every one waited in silent sympathy until he
                        had gone.
                    The word passed swiftly through the great house, and through the open windows
                        the servants were heard crying loudly for Baron von Marhof's
                        carriage in the court below.
                    "The King is dead; long live the King!" murmured
                        Shirley.
                    "Long live the King!" repeated Chauvenet and Mrs.
                        Sanderson, in unison; and then Armitage, as though mastering a phrase they
                        were teaching him, raised his head and said, with an unction that surprised
                        them, "Long live the Emperor and King! God save
                        Austria!"
                    Then he turned to Shirley with a smile.
                    
                    "It is very pleasant to see you on your own ground. I hope your
                        family are well."
                    "Thank you; yes. My father and mother are here
                        somewhere."
                    "And Captain Claiborne?"
                    "He's probably sitting up all night to defend Fort Myer
                        from the crafts and assaults of the enemy. I hope you will come to see us,
                        Mr. Armitage."
                    "Thank you; you are very kind," he said gravely.
                        "I shall certainly give myself the pleasure very
                        soon."
                    As Shirley passed on with Chauvenet Mrs. Sanderson launched upon the
                        girl's praises, but she found him suddenly preoccupied.
                    "The girl has gone to your head. Why didn't you tell me you
                        knew the Claibornes?"
                    "I don't remember that you gave me a chance; but
                        I'll say now that I intend to know them better."
                    She bade him take her to the drawing-room. As they went down through the
                        house they found that the announcement of the Emperor Johann
                        Wilhelm's death had cast a pall upon the company. All the members
                        of the diplomatic corps had withdrawn at once as a mark of respect and
                        sympathy for Baron von Marhof, and at midnight the ball-room held all of the
                        company that remained.  Armitage had not
                        sought Shirley again. He found a room that had been set apart for smokers,
                        threw himself into a chair, lighted a cigar and stared at a picture that had
                        no interest for him whatever. He put down his cigar after a few whiffs, and
                        his hand went to the pocket in which he had usually carried his cigarette
                        case.
                    "Ah, Mr. Armitage, may I offer you a cigarette?"
                    He turned to find Chauvenet close at his side. He had not heard the man
                        enter, but Chauvenet had been in his thoughts and he started slightly at
                        finding him so near. Chauvenet held in his white-gloved hand a gold
                        cigarette case, which he opened with a deliberate care that displayed its
                        embellished side. The smooth golden surface gleamed in the light, the helmet
                        in blue, and the white falcon flashed in Armitage's eyes. The
                        meeting was clearly by intention, and a slight smile played about
                        Chauvenet's lips in his enjoyment of the situation. Armitage smiled
                        up at him in amiable acknowledgment of his courtesy, and rose.
                    "You are very considerate, Monsieur. I was just at the moment
                        regretting our distinguished host's oversight in providing cigars
                        alone. Allow me!"
                    He bent forward, took the outstretched open case  into his own hands, removed a cigarette, snapped the case shut and thrust
                        it into his trousers pocket,all, as it seemed, at a single stroke.
                    "My dear sir," began Chauvenet, white with rage.
                    "My dear Monsieur Chauvenet," said Armitage, striking a
                        match, "I am indebted to you for returning a trinket that I value
                        highly."
                    The flame crept half the length of the stick while they regarded each other;
                        then Armitage raised it to the tip of his cigarette, lifted his head and
                        blew a cloud of smoke.
                    "Are you able to prove your property, Mr. Armitage?"
                        demanded Chauvenet furiously.
                    "My dear sir, they have a saying in this country that possession is
                        nine points of the law. You had itnow I have itwherefore it must be
                        mine!"
                    Chauvenet's rigid figure suddenly relaxed; he leaned against a chair
                        with a return of his habitual nonchalant air, and waved his hand
                        carelessly.
                    "Between gentlemenso small a matter!"
                    "To be surethe merest trifle," laughed Armitage with entire
                        good humor.
                    "And where a gentleman has the predatory habits of a burglar and
                        housebreaker"
                    
                    "Then lesser affairs, such as picking up trinkets"
                    "Come naturallyquite so!" and Chauvenet twisted his
                        mustache with an air of immense satisfaction.
                    "But the genial art of assassinationthere's a business that
                        requires a calculating hand, my dear Monsieur Chauvenet!"
                    Chauvenet's hand went again to his lip.
                    "To be sure!" he ejaculated with zest.
                    "But alonealone one can do little. For larger operations one
                        requiresI should saycourageous associates. Now in my affairswould you
                        believe me? I am obliged to manage quite alone."
                    "How melancholy!" exclaimed Chauvenet.
                    "It is indeed very sad!" and Armitage sighed, tossed his
                        cigarette into the smoldering grate and bade Chauvenet a ceremonious good
                        night.
                    "Ah, we shall meet again, I dare say!"
                    "The thought does credit to a generous nature!" responded
                        Armitage, and passed out into the house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    "THIS IS AMERICA, MR. ARMITAGE"
                    
                        
                            Lo! as I came to the crest of the hill, the sun on the heights
                                had arisen,
                            The dew on the grass was shining, and white was the mist on the
                                vale;
                            Like a lark on the wing of the dawn I sang; like a guiltless
                                one freed from his prison,
                            As backward I gazed through the valley, and saw no one on my
                                trail.
                            
                                L. Frank Tooker.
                            
                        
                    
                    Spring, planting green and gold banners on old Virginia battle-fields,
                        crossed the Potomac and occupied Washington.
                    Shirley Claiborne called for her horse and rode forth to greet the conqueror.
                        The afternoon was keen and sunny, and she had turned impatiently from a tea,
                        to which she was committed, to seek the open. The call of the outdoor gods
                        sang in her blood. Daffodils and crocuses lifted yellow flames and ruddy
                        torches from every dooryard. She had pinned a spray of arbutus to the lapel
                        of her tan riding-coat; it spoke to her of the  blue horizons of the near Virginia hills. The young buds in the maples
                        hovered like a mist in the tree-tops. Towering over all, the incomparable
                        gray obelisk climbed to the blue arch and brought it nearer earth.
                        Washington, the center of man's hope, is also, in spring, the
                        capital of the land of heart's desire.
                    With a groom trailing after her, Shirley rode toward Rock Creek,that
                        rippling, murmuring, singing trifle of water that laughs day and night at
                        the margin of the beautiful city, as though politics and statesmanship were
                        the hugest joke in the world. The flag on the Austro-Hungarian embassy hung
                        at half-mast and symbols of mourning fluttered from the entire front of the
                        house. Shirley lifted her eyes gravely as she passed. Her thoughts flew at
                        once to the scene at the house of the Secretary of State a week before, when
                        Baron von Marhof had learned of the death of his sovereign; and by
                        association she thought, too, of Armitage, and of his look and voice as he
                        said:
                    "Long live the Emperor and King! God save Austria!"
                    Emperors and kings! They were as impossible today as a snowstorm. The grave
                        ambassadors as they appeared at great Washington functions, wearing their
                             decorations, always struck her as being
                        particularly distinguished. It just now occurred to her that they were all
                        linked to the crown and scepter; but she dismissed the whole matter and
                        bowed to two dark ladies in a passing victoria with the quick little nod and
                        bright smile that were the same for these titled members of the Spanish
                        Ambassador's household as for the young daughters of a western
                        senator, who democratically waved their hands to her from a doorstep.
                    Armitage came again to her mind. He had called at the Claiborne house twice
                        since the Secretary's ball, and she had been surprised to find how
                        fully she accepted him as an American, now that he was on her own soil. He
                        derived, too, a certain stability from the fact that the Sandersons knew
                        him; he was, indeed, an entirely different person since the Montana Senator
                        definitely connected him with an American landscape. She had kept her own
                        counsel touching the scene on the dark deck of the King
                            Edward, but it was not a thing lightly to be forgotten. She was
                        half angry with herself this mellow afternoon to find how persistently
                        Armitage came into her thoughts, and how the knife-thrust on the steamer
                        deck kept recurring in her mind and quickening her sympathy for a man of
                        whom she knew  so little; and she touched her
                        horse impatiently with the crop and rode into the park at a gait that roused
                        the groom to attention.
                    At a bend of the road Chauvenet and Franzel, the attach, swung into view,
                        mounted, and as they met, Chauvenet turned his horse and rode beside
                        her.
                    "Ah, these American airs! This spring! Is it not good to be alive,
                        Miss Claiborne?"
                    "It is all of that!" she replied. It seemed to her that the
                        day had not needed Chauvenet's praise.
                    "I had hoped to see you later at the Wallingford tea!" he
                        continued.
                    "No teas for me on a day like this! The thought of being indoors is
                        tragic!"
                    She wished that he would leave her, for she had ridden out into the spring
                        sunshine to be alone. He somehow did not appear to advantage in his
                        riding-coat,his belongings were too perfect. She had really enjoyed his talk
                        when they had met here and there abroad; but she was in no mood for him now;
                        and she wondered what he had lost by the transfer to America. He ran on
                        airily in French, speaking of the rush of great and small social affairs
                        that marked the end of the season.
                    
                    "Poor Franzel is indeed triste. He is taking the
                        death of Johann Wilhelm quite hard. But here in America the death of an
                        emperor seems less important. A king or a peasant, what does it
                        matter!"
                    "Better ask the robin in yonder budding chestnut tree, Monsieur.
                        This is not an hour for hard questions!"
                    "Ah, you are very cruel! You drive me back to poor, melancholy
                        Franzel, who is indeed a funeral in himself."
                    "That is very sad, Monsieur,"and she smiled at him with
                        mischief in her eyes. "My heart goes out to any one who is left to
                        mournalone."
                    He gathered his reins and drew up his horse, lifting his hat with a perfect
                        gesture.
                    "There are sadder blows than losing one's sovereign,
                        Mademoiselle!" and he shook his bared head mournfully and rode back
                        to find his friend.
                    She sought now her favorite bridle-paths and her heart was light with the
                        sweetness and peace of the spring as she heard the rush and splash of the
                        creek, saw the flash of wings and felt the mystery of awakened life
                        throbbing about her. The heart of a girl in spring is the home of dreams,
                        and Shirley's heart overflowed  with
                        them, until her pulse thrilled and sang in quickening cadences. The
                        wistfulness of April, the dream of unfathomable things, shone in her brown
                        eyes; and a girl with dreams in her eyes is the divinest work of the gods.
                        Into this twentieth century, into the iron heart of cities, she still comes,
                        and the clear, high stars of April nights and the pensive moon of September
                        are glad because of her.
                    The groom marveled at the sudden changes of gait, the gallops that fell
                        abruptly to a walk with the alterations of mood in the girl's
                        heart, the pauses that marked a moment of meditation as she watched some
                        green curving bank, or a plunge of the mad little creek that sent a glory of
                        spray whitely into the sunlight. It grew late and the shadows of waning
                        afternoon crept through the park. The crowd had hurried home to escape the
                        chill of the spring dusk, but she lingered on, reluctant to leave, and
                        presently left her horse with the groom that she might walk alone beside the
                        creek in a place that was beautifully wild. About her lay a narrow strip of
                        young maples and beyond this the wide park road wound at the foot of a steep
                        wooded cliff. The place was perfectly quiet save for the splash and babble
                        of the creek.
                    
                    Several minutes passed. Once she heard her groom speak to the horses, though
                        she could not see him, but the charm of the place held her. She raised her
                        eyes from the tumbling water before her and looked off through the maple
                        tangle. Then she drew back quickly, and clasped her riding-crop tightly.
                        Some one had paused at the farther edge of the maple brake and dismounted,
                        as she had, for a more intimate enjoyment of the place. It was John
                        Armitage, tapping his riding-boot idly with his crop as he leaned against a
                        tree and viewed the miniature valley.
                    He was a little below her, so that she saw him quite distinctly, and caught a
                        glimpse of his horse pawing, with arched neck, in the bridle-path behind
                        him. She had no wish to meet him there and turned to steal back to her horse
                        when a movement in the maples below caught her eye. She paused, fascinated
                        and alarmed by the cautious stir of the undergrowth. The air was perfectly
                        quiet; the disturbance was not caused by the wind. Then the head and
                        shoulders of a man were disclosed as he crouched on hands and knees,
                        watching Armitage. His small head and big body as he crept forward suggested
                        to Shirley some fantastic monster of legend, and her heart beat fast with
                        terror as a knife  flashed in his hand. He
                        moved more rapidly toward the silent figure by the tree, and still Shirley
                        watched wide-eyed, her figure tense and trembling, the hand that held the
                        crop half raised to her lips, while the dark form rose and poised for a
                        spring.
                    Then she cried out, her voice ringing clear and high across the little vale
                        and sounding back from the cliff.
                    "Oh! Oh!" and Armitage leaped forward and turned. His crop
                        fell first upon the raised hand, knocking the knife far into the trees, then
                        upon the face and shoulders of the Servian. The fellow turned and fled
                        through the maple tangle, Armitage after him, and Shirley ran back toward
                        the bridge where she had left her groom and met him half-way hurrying toward
                        her.
                    "What is it, Miss? Did you call?"
                    "No; it was nothing, Thomasnothing at all," and she mounted
                        and turned toward home.
                    Her heart was still pounding with excitement and she walked her horse to gain
                        composure. Twice, in circumstances most unusual and disquieting, she had
                        witnessed an attack on John Armitage by an unknown enemy. She recalled now a
                        certain pathos of his figure as she first saw him leaning against the tree
                        watching the turbulent little stream, and she was impatient to  find how her sympathy went out to him. It
                        made no difference who John Armitage was; his enemy was a coward, and the
                        horror of such a menace to a man's life appalled her. She passed a
                        mounted policeman, who recognized her and raised his hand in salute, but the
                        idea of reporting the strange affair in the strip of woodland occurred to
                        her only to be dismissed. She felt that here was an ugly business that was
                        not within the grasp of a park patrolman, and, moreover, John Armitage was
                        entitled to pursue his own course in matters that touched his life so
                        closely. The thought of him reassured her; he was no simple boy to suffer
                        such attacks to pass unchallenged; and so, dismissing him, she raised her
                        head and saw him gallop forth from a by-path and rein his horse beside
                        her.
                    "Miss Claiborne!"
                    The suppressed feeling in his tone made the moment tense and she saw that his
                        lips trembled. It was a situation that must have its quick relief, so she
                        said instantly, in a mockery of his own tone:
                    "Mr. Armitage!" She laughed. "I am almost caught
                        in the dark. The blandishments of spring have beguiled me."
                    He looked at her with a quick scrutiny. It did not  seem possible that this could be the girl who had called to
                        him in warning scarce five minutes before; but he knew it had been she,he
                        would have known her voice anywhere in the world. They rode silent beside
                        the creek, which was like a laughing companion seeking to mock them into a
                        cheerier mood. At an opening through the hills they saw the western horizon
                        aglow in tints of lemon deepening into gold and purple. Save for the riot of
                        the brook the world was at peace. She met his eyes for an instant, and their
                        gravity, and the firm lines in which his lips were set, showed that the
                        shock of his encounter had not yet passed.
                    "You must think me a strange person, Miss Claiborne. It seems
                        inexplicable that a man's life should be so menaced in a place like
                        this. If you had not called to me"
                    "Please don't speak of that! It was so
                        terrible!"
                    "But I must speak of it! Once before the same attempt was madethat
                        night on the King Edward."
                    
                    "Yes; I have not forgotten."
                    "And to-day I have reason to believe that the same man watched his
                        chance, for I have ridden here every day since I came, and he must have kept
                        track of me."
                    "But this is America, Mr. Armitage!"
                    
                    "That does not help me with you. You have every reason to resent my
                        bringing you into such dangers,it is unpardonableindefensible!"
                    She saw that he was greatly troubled.
                    "But you couldn't help my being in the park-to-day! I have
                        often stopped just there before. It's a favorite place for
                        meditations. If you know the man"
                    "I know the man."
                    "Then the law will certainly protect you, as you know very well. He
                        was a dreadful-looking person. The police can undoubtedly find and lock him
                        up."
                    She was seeking to minimize the matter,to pass it off as a commonplace affair
                        of every day. They were walking their horses; the groom followed stolidly
                        behind.
                    Armitage was silent, a look of great perplexity on his face. When he spoke he
                        was quite calm.
                    "Miss Claiborne, I must tell you that this is an affair in which I
                        can't ask help in the usual channels. You will pardon me if I seem
                        to make a mystery of what should be ordinarily a bit of business between
                        myself and the police; but to give publicity to these attempts to injure me
                        just now would be a mistake. I could have caught that man there in the wood;
                        but I let him go,  for the reasonfor the
                        reason that I want the men back of him to show themselves before I act. But
                        if it isn't presuming"
                    He was quite himself again. His voice was steady and deep with the ease and
                        assurance that she liked in him. She had marked to-day in his earnestness,
                        more than at any other time, a slight, an almost indistinguishable trace of
                        another tongue in his English.
                    "How am I to know whether it would be presuming?" she
                        asked.
                    "But I was going to say"
                    "When rudely interrupted!" She was trying to make it easy
                        for him to say whatever he wished.
                    "that these troubles of mine are really personal. I have committed
                        no crime and am not fleeing from justice."
                    She laughed and urged her horse into a gallop for a last stretch of road near
                        the park limits.
                    "How uninteresting! We expect a Montana ranchman to have a
                        spectacular past."
                    "But not to carry it, I hope, to Washington. On the range I might
                        become a lawless bandit in the interest of picturesqueness; but
                        here"
                    
                    "Here in the world of frock-coated statesmen nothing really
                        interesting is to be expected."
                    She walked her horse again. It occurred to her that he might wish an
                        assurance of silence from her. What she had seen would make a capital bit of
                        gossip, to say nothing of being material for the newspapers, and her
                        conscience, as she reflected, grew uneasy at the thought of shielding him.
                        She knew that her father and mother, and, even more strictly, her brother,
                        would close their doors on a man whose enemies followed him over seas and
                        lay in wait for him in a peaceful park; but here she tested him. A man of
                        breeding would not ask protection of a woman on whom he had no claim, and it
                        was certainly not for her to establish an understanding with him in so
                        strange and grave a matter.
                    "It must be fun having a ranch with cattle on a thousand hills. I
                        always wished my father would go in for a western place, but he
                        can't travel so far from home. Our ranch is in
                        Virginia."
                    "You have a Virginia farm? That is very interesting."
                    "Yes; at Storm Springs. It's really beautiful down
                        there," she said simply.
                    It was on his tongue to tell her that he, too, owned a  bit of Virginia soil, but he had just established himself as a
                        Montana ranchman, and it seemed best not to multiply his places of
                        residence. He had, moreover, forgotten the name of the county in which his
                        preserve lay. He said, with truth:
                    "I know nothing of Virginia or the South; but I have viewed the
                        landscape from Arlington and some day I hope to go adventuring in the
                        Virginia hills."
                    "Then you should not overlook our valley. I am sure there must be
                        adventures waiting for somebody down there. You can tell our place by the
                        spring lamb on the hillside. There's a huge inn that offers the
                        longdistance telephone and market reports and golf links and very good
                        horses, and lots of people stop there as a matter of course in their flight
                        between Florida and Newport. They go up and down the coast like the mercury
                        in a thermometerup when it's warm, down when it's cold.
                        There's the secret of our mercurial temperament."
                    A passing automobile frightened her horse, and he watched her perfect
                        coolness in quieting the animal with rein and voice.
                    "He's just up from the farm and doesn't like town
                             very much. But he shall go home again
                        soon," she said as they rode on.
                    "Oh, you go down to shepherd those spring lambs!" he
                        exclaimed, with misgiving in his heart. He had followed her across the sea
                        and now she was about to take flight again!
                    "Yes; and to escape from the tiresome business of trying to remember
                        people's names."
                    "Then you reverse the usual fashionable processyou go south to meet
                        the rising mercury."
                    "I hadn't thought of it, but that is so. I dearly love a
                        hillside, with pines and cedars, and sloping meadows with sheepand rides
                        over mountain roads to the gate of dreams, where Spottswood's
                        golden horseshoe knights ride out at you with a grand sweep of their plumed
                        hats. Now what have you to say to that?"
                    "Nothing, but my entire approval," he said.
                    He dimly understood, as he left her in this gay mood, at the Claiborne house,
                        that she had sought to make him forget the lurking figure in the park
                        thicket and the dark deed thwarted there. It was her way of conveying to him
                        her dismissal of the incident, and it implied a greater kindness than any
                        pledge of secrecy. He rode away with grave eyes, and a new hope filled his
                        heart.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    JOHN ARMITAGE IS SHADOWED
                    
                        
                            Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road,
                            Healthy, free, the world before me,
                            The long brown path before me leading wherever I choose.
                            
                                Walt Whitman.
                            
                        
                    
                    Armitage dined alone that evening and left the hotel at nine o'clock
                        for a walk. He unaffectedly enjoyed paved ground and the sights and ways of
                        cities, and he walked aimlessly about the lighted thoroughfares of the
                        capital with conscious pleasure in the movement and color of life. He let
                        his eyes follow the Washington Monument's gray line starward; and
                        he stopped to enjoy the high-poised equestrian statue of Sherman, to which
                        the starry dusk gave something of legendary and Old World charm.
                    Coming out upon Pennsylvania Avenue he strolled past the White House, and, at
                        the wide-flung gates, paused while a carriage swept by him at the driveway.
                        He saw within the grim face of Baron von Marhof and  unconsciously lifted his hat, though the Ambassador was deep
                        in thought and did not see him. Armitage struck the pavement smartly with
                        his stick as he walked slowly on, pondering; but he was conscious a moment
                        later that some one was loitering persistently in his wake. Armitage was at
                        once on the alert with all his faculties sharpened. He turned and gradually
                        slackened his pace, and the person behind him immediately did likewise.
                    The sensation of being followed is at first annoying; then a pleasant zest
                        creeps into it, and in Armitage's case the reaction was immediate.
                        He was even amused to reflect that the shadow had chosen for his exploit
                        what is probably the most conspicuous and the best-guarded spot in America.
                        It was not yet ten o'clock, but the streets were comparatively free
                        of people. He slackened his pace gradually, and threw open his overcoat, for
                        the night was warm, to give an impression of ease, and when he had reached
                        the somber faade of the Treasury Building he paused and studied it in the
                        glare of the electric lights, as though he were a chance traveler taking a
                        preliminary view of the sights of the capital. A man still lingered behind
                        him, drawing nearer now, at a moment when they had the sidewalk
                        comparatively free to themselves. The fellow was short,  but of soldierly erectness, and even in his loitering pace
                        lifted his feet with the quick precision of the drilled man. Armitage walked
                        to the corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and Fifteenth Street, then turned and
                        retraced his steps slowly past the Treasury Building. The man who had been
                        following faced about and walked slowly in the opposite direction, and
                        Armitage, quickening his own pace, amused himself by dogging the
                        fellow's steps closely for twenty yards, then passed him.
                    When he had gained the advantage of a few feet, Armitage stopped suddenly and
                        spoke to the man in the casual tone he might have used in addressing a
                        passing acquaintance.
                    "My friend," he said, "there are two policemen
                        across the street; if you continue to follow me I shall call their attention
                        to you."
                    "Pardon me"
                    "You are watching me; and the thing won't do."
                    "Yes, I'm watching you; but"
                    "But the thing won't do! If you are hired"
                    
                        "Nein! Nein! You do me a wrong,
                        sir."
                    "Then if you are not hired you are your own master, and you serve
                        yourself ill when you take the trouble to follow me. Now I'm going
                        to finish my walk, and I beg  you to keep out
                        of my way. This is not a place where liberties may be infringed with
                        impunity. Good evening, sir."
                    Armitage wheeled about sharply, and as his face came into the full light of
                        the street lamps the stranger stared at him intently.
                    Armitage was fumbling in his pocket for a coin, but this impertinence caused
                        him to change his mind. Two policemen were walking slowly toward them, and
                        Armitage, annoyed by the whole incident, walked quickly away.
                    He was not wholly at ease over the meeting. The fact that Chauvenet had so
                        promptly put a spy as well as the Servian assassin on his trail quickened
                        his pulse with anger for an instant and then sobered him.
                    He continued his walk, and paused presently before an array of books in a
                        shop window. Then some one stopped at his side and he looked up to find the
                        same man he had accosted at the Treasury Building lifting his hat,an
                        American soldier's campaign hat. The fellow was an extreme blond,
                        with a smooth-shaven, weather-beaten face, blue eyes and light hair.
                    "Pardon me! You are mistaken; I am not a spy. But it is wonderful;
                        it is quite wonderful"
                    
                    The man's face was alight with discovery, with an alert pleasure
                        that awaited recognition.
                    "My dear fellow, you really become annoying," and Armitage
                        again thrust his hand into his trousers pocket. "I should hate
                        awfully to appeal to the police; but you must not crowd me too
                        far."
                    The man seemed moved by deep feeling, and his eyes were bright with
                        excitement. His hands clasped tightly the railing that protected the glass
                        window of the book shop. As Armitage turned away impatiently the man
                        ejaculated huskily, as though some over-mastering influence wrung the words
                        from him:
                    "Don't you know me? I am Oscardon't you remember
                        me, and the great forest, where I taught you to shoot and fish? You
                        are"
                    He bent toward Armitage with a fierce insistence, his eyes blazing in his
                        eagerness to be understood.
                    John Armitage turned again to the window, leaned lightly upon the iron
                        railing and studied the title of a book attentively. He was silently
                        absorbed for a full minute, in which the man who had followed him waited.
                        Taking his cue from Armitage's manner he appeared to be deeply
                        interested in the bookseller's display; but the excitement still
                        glittered in his eyes.
                    
                    Armitage was thinking swiftly, and his thoughts covered a very wide range of
                        time and place as he stood there. Then he spoke very deliberately and
                        coolly, but with a certain peremptory sharpness.
                    "Go ahead of me to the New American and wait in the office until I
                        come."
                    The man's hand went to his hat.
                    "None of that!"
                    Armitage arrested him with a gesture. "My name is Armitage,John
                        Armitage," he said. "I advise you to remember it. Now
                        go!"
                    The man hurried away, and Armitage slowly followed.
                    It occurred to him that the man might be of use, and with this in mind he
                        returned to the New American, got his key from the office, nodded to his
                        acquaintance of the street and led the way to the elevator.
                    Armitage put aside his coat and hat, locked the hall door, and then, when the
                        two stood face to face in his little sitting-room, he surveyed the man
                        carefully.
                    "What do you want?" he demanded bluntly.
                    He took a cigarette from a box on the table, lighted it, and then, with an
                        air of finality, fixed his gaze upon the man, who eyed him with a kind of
                        stupefied wonder.  Then there flashed into the
                        fellow's bronzed face something of dignity and resentment. He stood
                        perfectly erect with his felt hat clasped in his hand. His clothes were
                        cheap, but clean, and his short coat was buttoned trimly about him.
                    "I want nothing, Mr. Armitage," he replied humbly, speaking
                        slowly and with a marked German accent.
                    "Then you will be easily satisfied," said Armitage.
                        "You said your name was?"
                    "OscarOscar Breunig."
                    Armitage sat down and scrutinized the man again without relaxing his
                        severity.
                    "You think you have seen me somewhere, so you have followed me in
                        the streets to make sure. When did this idea first occur to
                        you?"
                    "I saw you at Fort Myer at the drill last Friday. I have been
                        looking for you since, and saw you leave your horse at the hotel this
                        afternoon. You ride at Rock Creekyes?"
                    "What do you do for a living, Mr. Breunig?" asked
                        Armitage.
                    "I was in the army, but served out my time and was discharged a few
                        months ago and came to Washington to see when they make the governmentyes? I
                        am  going to South America. Is it Peru? Yes;
                        there will be a revolution."
                    He paused, and Armitage met his eyes; they were very blue and kind,eyes that
                        spoke of sincerity and fidelity, such eyes as a leader of forlorn hopes
                        would like to know were behind him when he gave the order to charge. Then a
                        curious thing happened. It may have been the contact of eye with eye that
                        awoke question and response between them; it may have been a need in one
                        that touched a chord of helplessness in the other; but suddenly Armitage
                        leaped to his feet and grasped the outstretched hands of the little
                        soldier.
                    "Oscar!" he said; and repeated, very softly,
                        "Oscar!"
                    The man was deeply moved and the tears sprang into his eyes. Armitage
                        laughed, holding him at arm's length.
                    "None of that nonsense! Sit down!" He turned to the door,
                        opened it, and peered into the hall, locked the door again, then motioned
                        the man to a chair.
                    "So you deserted your mother country, did you, and have borne arms
                        for the glorious republic?"
                    "I served in the Philippines,yes?"
                    "Rank, titles, emoluments, Oscar?"
                    
                    "I was a sergeant; and the surgeon could not find the bullet after
                        Big Bend, Luzon; so they were sorry and gave me a certificate and two
                        dollars a month to my pay," said the man, so succinctly and
                        colorlessly that Armitage laughed.
                    "You have done well, Oscar; honor me by accepting a
                        cigar."
                    The man took a cigar from the box which Armitage extended, but would not
                        light it. He held it rather absent-mindedly in his hand and continued to
                        stare.
                    "You are not dead,Mr.Armitage; but your father?"
                    "My father is dead, Oscar."
                    "He was a good man," said the soldier.
                    "Yes; he was a good man," repeated Armitage gravely.
                        "I am alive, and yet I am dead, Oscar; do you grasp the idea? You
                        were a good friend when we were lads together in the great forest. If I
                        should want you to help me now"
                    The man jumped to his feet and stood at attention so gravely that Armitage
                        laughed and slapped his knee.
                    "You are well taught, Sergeant Oscar! Sit down. I am going to trust
                        you. My affairs just now are not without their trifling
                        dangers."
                    
                    "There are enemiesyes?" and Oscar nodded his head solemnly
                        in acceptance of the situation.
                    "I am going to trust you absolutely. You have no confidantsyou are
                        not married?"
                    "How should a man be married who is a soldier? I have no friends;
                        they are unprofitable," declared Oscar solemnly.
                    "I fear you are a pessimist, Oscar; but a pessimist who keeps his
                        mouth shut is a good ally. Now, if you are not afraid of being shot or
                        struck with a knife, and if you are willing to obey my orders for a few
                        weeks we may be able to do some business. First, remember that I am Mr.
                        Armitage; you must learn that now, and remember it for all time. And if any
                        one should ever suggest anything else"
                    The man nodded his comprehension.
                    "That will be the time for Oscar to be dumb. I understand, Mr.
                        Armitage."
                    Armitage smiled. The man presented so vigorous a picture of health, his
                        simple character was so transparently reflected in his eyes and face that he
                        did not in the least question him.
                    "You are an intelligent person, Sergeant. If you are  equally discreetable to be deaf when
                        troublesome questions are asked, then I think we shall get on."
                    "You should remember" began Oscar.
                    "I remember nothing," observed Armitage sharply; and Oscar
                        was quite humble again. Armitage opened a trunk and took out an envelope
                        from which he drew several papers and a small map, which he unfolded and
                        spread on the table. He marked a spot with his lead-pencil and passed the
                        map to Oscar.
                    "Do you think you could find that place?"
                    The man breathed hard over it for several minutes.
                    "Yes; it would be easy," and he nodded his head several
                        times as he named the railroad stations nearest the point indicated by
                        Armitage. The place was in one of the mountainous counties of Virginia,
                        fifteen miles from an east and west railway line. Armitage opened a duly
                        recorded deed which conveyed to himself the title to two thousand acres of
                        land; also a curiously complicated abstract of title showing the successive
                        transfers of ownership from colonial days down through the years of
                        Virginia's splendor to the dread time when battle shook the world.
                        The title had passed from the receiver of a defunct shooting-club to
                        Armitage, who had been charmed by the description of the property as set
                        forth  in an advertisement, and lured,
                        moreover, by the amazingly small price at which the preserve was
                        offered.
                    "It is a farmyes?"
                    "It is a wilderness, I fancy," said Armitage. "I
                        have never seen it; I may never see it, for that matter; but you will find
                        your way theregoing first to this town, Lamar, studying the country, keeping
                        your mouth shut, and seeing what the improvements on the ground amount to.
                        There's some sort of a bungalow there, built by the shooting-club.
                        Here's a description of the place, on the strength of which I
                        bought it. You may take these papers along to judge the size of the
                        swindle."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "And a couple of good horses; plenty of commissary storesplain
                        military necessities, you understandand some bedding should be provided. I
                        want you to take full charge of this matter and get to work as quickly as
                        possible. It may be a trifle lonesome down there among the hills, but if you
                        serve me well you shall not regret it."
                    "Yes, I am quite satisfied with the job," said Oscar.
                    "And after you have reached the place and settled yourself you will
                        tell the postmaster and telegraph operator who you are and where you may be
                        found, so that  messages may reach you
                        promptly. If you get an unsigned message advising you oflet me considera
                        shipment of steers, you may expect me any hour. On the other hand, you may
                        not see me at all. We'll consider that our agreement lasts until
                        the first snow flies next winter. You are a soldier. There need be no
                        further discussion of this matter, Oscar."
                    The man nodded gravely.
                    "And it is well for you not to reappear in this hotel. If you should
                        be questioned on leaving here"
                    "I have not been hereis it not?"
                    "It is," replied Armitage, smiling. "You read and
                        write English?"
                    "Yes; one must, to serve in the army."
                    "If you should see a big Servian with a neck like a bull and a head
                        the size of a pea, who speaks very bad German, you will do well to keep out
                        of his way,unless you find a good place to tie him up. I advise you not to
                        commit murder without special orders,do you understand?"
                    "It is the custom of the country," assented Oscar, in a
                        tone of deep regret.
                    "To be sure," laughed Armitage; "and now I am
                        going  to give you money enough to carry out
                        the project I have indicated."
                    He took from his trunk a long bill-book, counted out twenty new
                        one-hundred-dollar bills and threw them on the table.
                    "It is much money," observed Oscar, counting the bills
                        laboriously.
                    "It will be enough for your purposes. You can't spend much
                        money up there if you try. Baconperhaps eggs; a cow may be necessary,who can
                        tell without trying it? Don't write me any letters or telegrams,
                        and forget that you have seen me if you don't hear from me
                        again."
                    He went to the elevator and rode down to the office with Oscar and dismissed
                        him carelessly. Then John Armitage bought an armful of magazines and
                        newspapers and returned to his room, quite like any traveler taking the
                        comforts of his inn.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE TOSS OF A NAPKIN
                    
                        
                            As music and splendor
                            Survive not the lamp and the lute,
                            The heart's echoes render
                            No song when the spirit is mute
                            No songs but sad dirges,
                            Like the wind through a ruined cell,
                            Or the mournful surges
                            That ring the dead seaman's knell.
                            
                                Shelley.
                            
                        
                    
                    Captain Richard Claiborne gave a supper at the Army and Navy Club for ten men
                        in honor of the newly-arrived military attach of the Spanish legation. He
                        had drawn his guests largely from his foreign acquaintances in Washington
                        because the Spaniard spoke little English; and Dick knew Washington well
                        enough to understand that while a girl and a man who speak different
                        languages may sit comfortably together at table, men in like predicament
                        grow morose and are likely to quarrel  with
                        their eyes before the cigars are passed. It was Friday, and the whole party
                        had witnessed the drill at Fort Myer that afternoon, with nine girls to
                        listen to their explanation of the manoeuvers and the earliest spring bride
                        for chaperon. Shirley had been of the party, and somewhat the heroine of it,
                        too, for it was Dick who sat on his horse out in the tanbark with the little
                        whistle to his lips and manipulated the troop.
                    "Here's a confusion of tongues; I may need you to
                        interpret," laughed Dick, indicating a chair at his left; and when
                        Armitage sat down he faced Chauvenet across the round table.
                    With the first filling of glasses it was found that every one could speak
                        French, and the talk went forward spiritedly. The discussion of military
                        matters naturally occupied first place, and all were anxious to steer clear
                        of anything that might be offensive to the Spaniard, who had lost a brother
                        at San Juan. Claiborne thought it wisest to discuss nations that were not
                        represented at the table, and this made it very simple for all to unite in
                        rejecting the impertinent claims of Japan to be reckoned among world powers,
                        and to declare, for the benefit of the Russian attach, that Slav and Saxon
                        must ultimately contend for the earth's dominion.
                    
                    Then they fell to talking about individuals, chiefly men in the public eye;
                        and as the Austro-Hungarian embassy was in mourning and unrepresented at the
                        table, the new Emperor-king was discussed with considerable frankness.
                    "He has not old Stroebel's right hand to hold him
                        up," remarked a young German officer.
                    "Thereby hangs a dark tale," remarked Claiborne.
                        "Somebody stuck a knife into Count von Stroebel at a singularly
                        inopportune moment. I saw him in Geneva two days before he was assassinated,
                        and he was very feeble and seemed harassed. It gives a man the shudders to
                        think of what might happen if his Majesty, Charles Louis, should go by the
                        board. His only child died a year agoafter him his cousin Francis, and then
                        the deluge."
                    "Bah! Francis is not as dark as he's painted. He's
                        the most lied-about prince in Europe," remarked Chauvenet.
                        "He would most certainly be an improvement on Charles Louis. But
                        alas! Charles Louis will undoubtedly live on forever, like his lamented
                        father. The King is dead: long live the King!"
                    "Nothing can happen," remarked the German sadly.
                        "I have lost much money betting on upheavals in that  direction. If there were a man in Hungary it
                        would be different; but riots are not revolutions."
                    "That is quite true," said Armitage quietly.
                    "But," observed the Spaniard, "if the Archduke
                        Karl had not gone out of his head and died in two or three dozen places, so
                        that no one is sure he is dead at all, things at Vienna might be rather more
                        interesting. Karl took a son with him into exile. Suppose one or the other
                        of them should reappear, stir up strife and incite
                        rebellion--?"
                    "Such speculations are quite idle," commented Chauvenet.
                        "There is no doubt whatever that Karl is dead, or we should hear of
                        him."
                    "Of course," said the German. "If he were not, the
                        death of the old Emperor would have brought him to life again."
                    "The same applies to the boy he carried away with him--undoubtedly
                        dead--or we should hear of him. Karl disappeared soon after his son Francis
                        was born. It was said--"
                    "A pretty tale it is!" commented the German--"that
                        the child wasn't exactly Karl's own. He took it quite
                        hard--went away to hide his shame in exile, taking his son Frederick
                        Augustus with him."
                    
                    "He was surely mad," remarked Chauvenet, sipping a cordial.
                        "He is much better dead and out of the way for the good of Austria.
                        Francis, as I say, is a good fellow. We have hunted together, and I know him
                        well."
                    They fell to talking about the lost sons of royal housesand a goodly number
                        there have been, even in these later centuriesand then of the latest
                        marriages between American women and titled foreigners. Chauvenet was now
                        leading the conversation; it might even have seemed to a critical listener
                        that he was guiding it with a certain intention.
                    He laughed as though at the remembrance of something amusing, and held the
                        little company while he bent over a candle to light a cigar.
                    "With all due respect to our American host, I must say that a title
                        in America goes further than anywhere else in the world. I was at Bar Harbor
                        three years ago when the Baron von Kissel devastated that region. He made
                        sad havoc among the ladies that summer; the rest of us simply had no place
                        to stand. You remember, gentlemen,"and Chauvenet looked slowly
                        around the listening circle,"that the unexpected arrival of the
                        excellent Ambassador of Austria-Hungary caused the Baron to leave Bar Harbor
                        between dark and daylight. The  story was that
                        he got off in a sail-boat; and the next we heard of him he was masquerading
                        under some title in San Francisco, where he proved to be a dangerous forger.
                        You all remember that the papers were full of his performances for a while,
                        but he was a lucky rascal, and always disappeared at the proper
                        psychological moment. He had, as you may say, the cosmopolitan accent, and
                        was the most plausible fellow alive."
                    Chauvenet held his audience well in hand, for nearly every one remembered the
                        brilliant exploits of the fraudulent baron, and all were interested in what
                        promised to be some new information about him. Armitage, listening intently
                        to Chauvenet's recital, felt his blood quicken, and his face
                        flushed for a moment. His cigarette case lay upon the edge of the table, and
                        he snapped it shut and fingered it nervously as he listened.
                    "It's my experience," continued Chauvenet,
                        "that we never meet a person once onlythere's always a
                        second meeting somewhere; and I was not at all surprised when I ran upon my
                        old friend the baron in Germany last fall."
                    "At his old tricks, I suppose," observed some one.
                    "No; that was the strangest part of it. He's struck a
                        deeper gamethough I'm blessed if I can make it out  he's dropped the title altogether,
                        and now calls himself MisterI've forgotten for
                        the moment the rest of it, but it is an English name. He's made a
                        stake somehow, and travels about in decent comfort. He passes now as an
                        Americanhis English is excellentand he hints at large American
                        interests."
                    "He probably has forged securities to sell," commented the
                        German. "I know those fellows. The business is best done
                        quietly."
                    "I dare say," returned Chauvenet.
                    "Of course, you greeted him as a long-lost friend,"
                        remarked Claiborne leadingly.
                    "No; I wanted to make sure of him; and, strangely enough, he
                        assisted me in a very curious way."
                    All felt that they were now to hear the dnouement of the story, and several
                        men bent forward in their absorption with their elbows on the table.
                        Chauvenet smiled and resumed, with a little shrug of his shoulders.
                    "Well, I must go back a moment to say that the man I knew at Bar
                        Harbor had a real crestthe ladies to whom he wrote notes treasured them, I
                        dare say, because of the pretty insignium. He had it engraved on his
                        cigarette case, a bird of some kind tiptoeing on a helmet, and beneath there
                        was a motto, Fide non armis."
                    
                    
                    "The devil!" exclaimed the young German. "Why,
                        that's very like"
                    "Very like the device of the Austrian Schomburgs. Well, I remembered
                        the cigarette case, and one night at a concertin Berlin, you knowI chanced
                        to sit with some friends at a table quite near where he sat alone; I had my
                        eye on him, trying to assure myself of his identity, when, in closing his
                        cigarette case, it fell almost at my feet, and I bumped heads with a waiter
                        as I picked it upI wanted to make sureand handed it to him, the imitation
                        baron."
                    "That was your chance to startle him a trifle, I should
                        say," remarked the German.
                    "He was the man, beyond doubt. There was no mistaking the cigarette
                        case. What I said was,"continued Chauvenet, "
                        'Allow me, Baron!'"
                    "Well spoken!" exclaimed the Spanish officer.
                    "Not so well, either," laughed Chauvenet. "He had
                        the best of ithe's a clever man, I am obliged to admit! He
                        said" and Chauvenet's mirth stifled him for a moment.
                    "Yes; what was it?" demanded the German impatiently.
                    
                    "He said: 'Thank you, waiter!" and put the
                        cigarette case back into his pocket!"
                    They all laughed. Then Captain Claiborne's eyes fell upon the table
                        and rested idly on John Armitage's cigarette caseon the
                        smoothly-worn gold of the surface, on the snowy falcon and the silver helmet
                        on which the bird poised. He started slightly, then tossed his napkin
                        carelessly on the table so that it covered the gold trinket completely.
                    "Gentlemen," he said, "if we are going to show
                        ourselves at the Darlington ball we'll have to run
                        along."
                    Below, in the coat room, Claiborne was fastening the frogs of his military
                        overcoat when Armitage, who had waited for the opportunity, spoke to
                        him.
                    "That story is a lie, Claiborne. That man never saw me or my
                        cigarette case in Berlin; and moreover, I was never at Bar Harbor in my
                        life. I gave you some account of myself on the King
                        Edwardevery word of it is true."
                    "You should face himyou must have it out with him!"
                        exclaimed Claiborne, and Armitage saw the conflict and uncertainty in the
                        officer's eyes.
                    "But the time hasn't come for that"
                    
                    "Then if there is something between you,"began Claiborne,
                        the doubt now clearly dominant.
                    "There is undoubtedly a great deal between us, and there will be
                        more before we reach the end."
                    Dick Claiborne was a perfectly frank, outspoken fellow, and this hint of
                        mystery by a man whose character had just been boldly assailed angered
                        him.
                    "Good God, man! I know as much about Chauvenet as I do about you.
                        This thing is ugly, as you must see. I don't like it, I tell you!
                        You've got to do more than deny a circumstantial story like that by
                        a fellow whose standing here is as good as yours! If you don't
                        offer some better explanation of this by to-morrow night I shall have to ask
                        you to cut my acquaintanceand the acquaintance of my family!"
                    Armitage's face was grave, but he smiled as he took his hat and
                        stick.
                    "I shall not be able to satisfy you of my respectability by
                        to-morrow night, Captain Claiborne. My own affairs must wait on larger
                        matters."
                    "Then you need never take the trouble!"
                    "In my own time you shall be quite fully satisfied," said
                        Armitage quietly, and turned away.
                    He was not among the others of the Claiborne party  when they got into their carriages to go to the ball. He went,
                        in fact, to the telegraph office and sent a message to Oscar Breunig, Lamar,
                        Virginia, giving notice of a shipment of steers.
                    Then he returned to the New American and packed his belongings.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    A CAMP IN THE MOUNTAINS
                    
                        
                            Who climbed the blue Virginia hills
                            Against embattled foes;
                            And planted there, in valleys fair,
                            The lily and the rose;
                            Whose fragrance lives in many lands,
                            Whose beauty stars the earth,
                            And lights the hearths of happy homes
                            With loveliness and worth.
                            
                                Francis O. Ticknor.
                            
                        
                    
                    The study of maps and time-tables is a far more profitable business than
                        appears. John Armitage possessed a great store of geographical knowledge as
                        interpreted in such literature. He could tell you, without leaving his room,
                        and probably without opening his trunk, the quickest way out of Tokio, or
                        St. Petersburg, or Calcutta, or Cinch Tight, Montana, if you suddenly
                        received a cablegram calling you to Vienna or Paris or Washington from one
                        of those places.
                    Such being the case, it was remarkable that he should have started for a
                        point in the Virginia hills by way of  Boston,
                        thence to Norfolk by coastwise steamer, and on to Lamar by lines of railroad
                        whose schedules would have been the despair of unhardened travelers. He had
                        expressed his trunks direct, and traveled with two suitcases and an
                        umbrella. His journey, since his boat swung out into Massachusetts Bay, had
                        been spent in gloomy speculations, and two young women booked for Baltimore
                        wrongly attributed his reticence and aloofness to a grievous disappointment
                        in love.
                    He had wanted time to thinkto ponder his affairsto devise some way out of his
                        difficulties, and to contrive the defeat of Chauvenet. Moreover, his
                        relations to the Claibornes were in an ugly tangle: Chauvenet had dealt him
                        a telling blow in a quarter where he particularly wished to appear to
                        advantage.
                    He jumped out of the day coach in which he had accomplished the last stage of
                        his journey to Lamar, just at dawn, and found Oscar with two horses
                        waiting.
                    "Good morning," said Oscar, saluting.
                    "You are prompt, Sergeant," and Armitage shook hands with
                        him.
                    As the train roared on through the valley, Armitage opened one of the
                        suit-cases and took out a pair of leather leggings, which he strapped on.
                        Then Oscar tied the  cases together with a
                        rope and hung them across his saddle-bow.
                    "The placewhat of it?" asked Armitage.
                    "There may be worseI have not decided."
                    Armitage laughed aloud.
                    "Is it as bad as that?"
                    The man was busy tightening the saddle girths, and he answered
                        Armitage's further questions with soldierlike brevity.
                    "You have been here"
                    "Two weeks, sir."
                    "And nothing has happened? It is a good report."
                    "It is good for the soul to stand on mountains and look at the
                        world. You will like that animalyes? He is lighter than a cavalry horse.
                        Mine, you will notice, is a trifle heavier. I bought them at a stock farm in
                        another valley, and rode them up to the place."
                    The train sent back loud echoes. A girl in a pink sunbonnet rode up on a mule
                        and carried off the mail pouch. The station agent was busy inside at his
                        telegraph instruments and paid no heed to the horsemen. Save for a few huts
                        clustered on the hillside, there were no signs of human habitation in sight.
                        The lights in a switch target showed yellow against the growing dawn.
                    
                    "I am quite ready, sir," reported Oscar, touching his hat.
                        "There is nothing here but the station; the settlement is farther
                        on our way."
                    "Then let us be off," said Armitage, swinging into the
                        saddle.
                    Oscar led the way in silence along a narrow road that clung close to the base
                        of a great pine-covered hill. The morning was sharp and the horses stepped
                        smartly, the breath of their nostrils showing white on the air. The far roar
                        and whistle of the train came back more and more faintly, and when it had
                        quite ceased Armitage sighed, pushed his soft felt hat from his face, and
                        settled himself more firmly in his saddle. The keen air was as stimulating
                        as wine, and he put his horse to the gallop and rode ahead to shake up his
                        blood.
                    "It is good," said the stolid cavalryman, as Armitage
                        wheeled again into line with him.
                    "Yes, it is good," repeated Armitage.
                    A peace descended upon him that he had not known in many days. The light grew
                        as the sun rose higher, blazing upon them like a brazen target through deep
                        clefts in the mountains. The morning mists retreated before them to farther
                        ridges and peaks, and the beautiful gray-blue of the Virginia hills
                        delighted Armitage's  eyes. The
                        region was very wild. Here and there from some mountaineer's cabin
                        a light penciling of smoke stole upward. They once passed a boy driving a
                        yoke of steers. After several miles the road, that had hung midway of the
                        rough hill, dipped down sharply, and they came out into another and broader
                        valley, where there were tilled farms, and a little settlement, with a
                        blacksmith shop and a country store, post-office and inn combined. The
                        storekeeper stood in the door, smoking a cob pipe. Seeing Oscar, he went
                        inside and brought out some letters and newspapers, which he delivered in
                        silence.
                    "This is Lamar post-office," announced Oscar.
                    "There must be some mail here for me," said Armitage.
                    Oscar handed him several long envelopesthey bore the name of the Bronx Loan
                        and Trust Company, whose office in New York was his permanent address, and
                        he opened and read a number of letters and cablegrams that had been
                        forwarded. Their contents evidently gave him satisfaction, for he whistled
                        cheerfully as he thrust them into his pocket.
                    "You keep in touch with the world, do you, Oscar? It is
                        commendable."
                    
                    "I take a Washington paperit relieves the monotony, and I can see
                        where the regiments are moving, and whether my old captain is yet out of the
                        hospital, and what happened to my lieutenant in his court-martial about the
                        pay accounts. One must observe the worldyes? At the post-office back
                        there"he jerked his head to indicate"it is against the law
                        to sell whisky in a post-office, so that storekeeper with the red nose and
                        small yellow eyes keeps it in a brown jug in the back room."
                    "To be sure," laughed Armitage. "I hope it is a
                        good article."
                    "It is vile," replied Oscar. "His brother makes it
                        up in the hills, and it is as strong as wood lye."
                    "Moonshine! I have heard of it. We must have some for rainy
                        days."
                    It was a new world to John Armitage, and his heart was as light as the
                        morning air as he followed Oscar along the ruddy mountain road. He was in
                        Virginia, and somewhere on this soil, perhaps in some valley like the one
                        through which he rode, Shirley Claiborne had gazed upon blue distances, with
                        ridge rising against ridge, and dark pine-covered slopes like these he saw
                        for the first time. He had left his affairs in Washington  in a sorry muddle; but he faced the new day
                        with a buoyant spirit, and did not trouble himself to look very far ahead.
                        He had a definite business before him; his cablegrams were reassuring on
                        that point. The fact that he was, in a sense, a fugitive did not trouble him
                        in the least. He had no intention of allowing Jules Chauvenet's
                        assassins to kill him, or of being locked up in a Washington jail as the
                        false Baron von Kissel. If he admitted that he was not John Armitage, it
                        would be difficult to prove that he was anybody elsea fact touching human
                        testimony which Jules Chauvenet probably know perfectly well.
                    On the whole he was satisfied that he had followed the wisest course thus
                        far. The broad panorama of the morning hills communicated to his spirit a
                        growing elation. He began singing in German a ballad that recited the
                        sorrows of a pale maiden prisoner in a dark tower on the Rhine, whence her
                        true knight rescued her, after many and fearsome adventures. On the last
                        stave he ceased abruptly, and an exclamation of wonder broke from him.
                    They had been riding along a narrow trail that afforded, as Oscar said, a
                        short cut across a long timbered ridge that lay between them and
                        Armitage's property.
                    
                    The path was rough and steep, and the low-hanging pine boughs and heavy
                        underbrush increased the difficulties of ascent. Straining to the top, a new
                        valley, hidden until now, was disclosed in long and beautiful vistas.
                    Armitage dropped the reins upon the neck of his panting horse.
                    "It is a fine valleyyes?" asked Oscar.
                    "It is a possession worthy of the noblest gods!" replied
                        Armitage. "There is a white building with colonnades away over
                        thereis it the house of the reigning deity?"
                    "It is not, sir," answered Oscar, who spoke English with a
                        kind of dogged precision, giving equal value to all words. "It is a
                        vast hotel where the rich spend much money. That place at the foot of the
                        hillsdo you see?it is there they play a foolish game with sticks and little
                        balls"
                    "Golf? Is it possible!"
                    "There is no doubt of it, sir. I have seen the fools myselfmen and
                        women. The place is called Storm Valley."
                    Armitage slapped his thigh sharply, so that his horse started.
                    "Yes; you are probably right, Oscar. I have heard of  the place. And those houses that lie beyond
                        there in the valley belong to gentlemen of taste and leisure who drink the
                        waters and ride horses and play the foolish game you describe with little
                        white balls."
                    "I could not tell it better," responded Oscar, who had
                        dismounted, like a good trooper, to rest his horse.
                    "And our placeis it below there?" demanded Armitage.
                    "It is not, sir. It lies to the west. But a man may come here when
                        he is lonesome, and look at the people and the gentlemen's houses.
                        At night it is a pleasure to see the lights, and sometimes, when the wind is
                        right, there is music of bands."
                    "Poor Oscar!" laughed Armitage.
                    His mood had not often in his life been so high.
                    On his flight northward from Washington and southward down the Atlantic
                        capes, the thought that Shirley Claiborne and her family must now believe
                        him an ignoble scoundrel had wrought misgivings and pain in his heart; but
                        at least he would soon be near hereven now she might be somewhere below in
                        the lovely valley, and he drew off his hat and stared down upon what was
                        glorified and enchanted ground.
                    "Let us go," he said presently.
                    
                    Oscar saluted, standing bridle in hand.
                    "You will find it easier to walk," he said, and, leading
                        their horses, they retraced their steps for several hundred yards along the
                        ridge, then mounted and proceeded slowly down again until they came to a
                        mountain road. Presently a high wire fence followed at their right, where
                        the descent was sharply arrested, and they came to a barred wooden gate, and
                        beside it a small cabin, evidently designed for a lodge.
                    "This is the place, sir," and Oscar dismounted and threw
                        open the gate.
                    The road within followed the rough contour of the hillside, that still turned
                        downward until it broadened into a wooded plateau. The flutter of wings in
                        the underbrush, the scamper of squirrels, the mad lope of a fox, kept the
                        eye busy. A deer broke out of a hazel thicket, stared at the horsemen in
                        wide-eyed amazement, then plunged into the wood and disappeared.
                    "There are deer, and of foxes a great plenty," remarked
                        Oscar.
                    He turned toward Armitage and added with lowered voice:
                    "It is different from our old hills and forestsyes? but sometimes I
                        have been homesick."
                    
                    "But this is not so bad, Oscar; and some day you shall go
                        back!"
                    "Here," said the soldier, as they swung out of the wood and
                        into the open, "is what they call the Port of Missing
                        Men."
                    There was a broad park-like area that tended downward almost imperceptibly to
                        a deep defile. They dismounted and walked to the edge and looked down the
                        steep sides. A little creek flowed out of the wood and emptied itself with a
                        silvery rush into the vale, caught its breath below, and became a creek
                        again. A slight suspension bridge flung across the defile had once afforded
                        a short cut to Storm Springs, but it was now in disrepair, and at either end
                        was posted "No Thoroughfare." Armitage stepped upon the
                        loose planking and felt the frail thing vibrate under his weight.
                    "It is a bad place," remarked Oscar, as the bridge creaked
                        and swung, and Armitage laughed and jumped back to solid ground.
                    The surface of this harbor of the hills was rough with outcropping rock. In
                        some great stress of nature the trees had been destroyed utterly, and only a
                        scant growth of weeds and wild flowers remained. The place suggested a
                        battle-ground for the winds, where they might 
                        meet and struggle in wild combat; or more practically, it was large enough
                        for the evolutions of a squadron of cavalry.
                    "Why the name?" asked Armitage.
                    "There were gray soldiers of many battlesyes? who fought the long
                        fight against the blue soldiers in the Valley of Virginia; and after the war
                        was over some of them would not surrenderno; but they marched here, and
                        stayed a long time, and kept their last flag, and so the place was called
                        the Port of Missing Men. They built that stone wall over there beyond the
                        patch of cedars, and camped. And a few died, and their graves are there by
                        the cedars. Yes; they had brave hearts," and Oscar lifted his hat
                        as though he were saluting the lost legion.
                    They turned again to the road and went forward at a gallop, until, half a
                        mile from the gate, they came upon a clearing and a low, red-roofed
                        bungalow.
                    "Your house, sir," and Oscar swung himself down at the
                        steps of a broad veranda. He led the horses away to a barn beyond the house,
                        while Armitage surveyed the landscape. The bungalow stood on a rough knoll,
                        and was so placed as to afford a splendid view of a wide region. Armitage
                        traversed the long veranda, studying  the
                        landscape, and delighting in the far-stretching pine-covered barricade of
                        hills. He was aroused by Oscar, who appeared carrying the suit-cases.
                    "There shall be breakfast," said the man.
                    He threw open the doors and they entered a wide, bare hall, with a fireplace,
                        into which Oscar dropped a match.
                    "All one floorplenty of sleeping-rooms, sira place to eat herea
                        kitchen beyonda fair barracks for a common soldier; that is
                        all."
                    "It is enough. Throw these bags into the nearest bedroom, if there
                        is no choice, and camp will be established."
                    "This is yoursthe baggage that came by express is there. A wagon
                        goes with the place, and I brought the things up yesterday. There is a
                        shower-bath beyond the rear veranda. The mountain water is off the ice,
                        butyou will require hot water for shavingis it not so?"
                    "You oppress me with luxuries, Oscar. Wind up the clock, and nothing
                        will be wanting."
                    Oscar unstrapped the trunks and then stood at attention in the door. He had
                        expected Armitage to condemn the place in bitter language, but the
                        proprietor of the abandoned hunting preserve was in excellent spirits, and
                        whistled blithely as he drew out his keys.
                    
                    "The place was built by fools," declared Oscar
                        gloomily.
                    "Undoubtedly! There is a saying that fools build houses and wise men
                        live in themyou see where that leaves us, Oscar. Let us be
                        cheerful!"
                    He tried the shower and changed his raiment, while Oscar prepared coffee and
                        laid a cloth on the long table before the fire. When Armitage appeared,
                        coffee steamed in the tin pot in which it had been made. Bacon, eggs and
                        toast were further offered.
                    "You have done excellently well, Oscar. Go get your own
                        breakfast." Armitage dropped a lump of sugar into his coffee cup
                        and surveyed the room.
                    A large map of Virginia and a series of hunting prints hung on the untinted
                        walls, and there were racks for guns, and a work-bench at one end of the
                        room, where guns might be taken apart and cleaned. A few novels, several
                        three-year-old magazines and a variety of pipes remained on the shelf above
                        the fireplace. The house offered possibilities of meager comfort, and that
                        was about all. Armitage remembered what the agent through whom he had made
                        the purchase had saidthat the place had proved too isolated for even a
                        hunting preserve, and that its only value was in the timber. He was  satisfied with his bargain, and would not set
                        up a lumber mill yet a while. He lighted a cigar and settled himself in an
                        easy chair before the fire, glad of the luxury of peace and quiet after his
                        circuitous journey and the tumult of doubt and question that had shaken
                        him.
                    He slit the wrapper of the Washington newspaper that Oscar had brought from
                        the mountain post-office and scanned the head-lines. He read with care a
                        despatch from London that purported to reflect the sentiment of the
                        continental capitals toward Charles Louis, the new Emperor-king of
                        Austria-Hungary, and the paper dropped upon his knees and he stared into the
                        fire. Then he picked up a paper of earlier date and read all the foreign
                        despatches and the news of Washington. He was about to toss the paper aside,
                        when his eyes fell upon a boldly-headlined article that caused his heart to
                        throb fiercely. It recited the sudden reappearance of the fraudulent Baron
                        von Kissel in Washington, and described in detail the baron's
                        escapades at Bar Harbor and his later career in California and elsewhere.
                        Then followed a story, veiled in careful phrases, but based, so the article
                        recited, upon information furnished by a gentleman of extensive acquaintance
                        on both sides of the Atlantic, that Baron von Kissel, under a new pseudonym,
                             and with even more daring effrontery, had
                        with in a fortnight sought to intrench himself in the most exclusive circles
                        of Washington.
                    Armitage's cigar slipped from his fingers and fell upon the brick
                        hearth as he read:
                    "The boldness of this clever adventurer is said to have reached a
                        climax in this city within a few days. He had, under the name of Armitage,
                        palmed himself off upon members of one of the most distinguished families of
                        the capital, whom he had met abroad during the winter. A young gentleman of
                        this family, who, it will suffice to say, bears a commission and title from
                        the American government, entertained a small company of friends at a
                        Washington club only a few nights ago, and this plausible adventurer was
                        among the guests. He was recognized at once by one of the foreigners
                        present, who, out of consideration for the host and fellow guests, held his
                        tongue; but it is understood that this gentleman sought Armitage privately
                        and warned him to leave Washington, which accounts for the fact that the
                        sumptuous apartments at the New American in which Mr. John Armitage, alias
                        Baron von Kissel, had established himself were vacated immediately. None of
                        those present at the supper will talk of the matter, but it has been the
                        subject of lively gossip for several days, and the German embassy is said to
                        have laid before the Washington police  all
                        the information in its archives relating to the American adventures of this
                        impudent scoundrel."
                    Armitage rose, dropped the paper into the fire, and, with his elbow resting
                        on the mantel-shelf, watched it burn. He laughed suddenly and faced about,
                        his back to the flames. Oscar stood at attention in the middle of the
                        room.
                    "Shall we unpackyes?"
                    "It is a capital idea," said John Armitage.
                    "I was striker for my captain also, who had fourteen pairs of boots
                        and a bad dispositionand his uniformsyes? He was very pretty to look at on a
                        horse."
                    "The ideal is high, Oscar, but I shall do my best. That one first,
                        please."
                    The contents of the two trunks were disposed of deftly by Oscar as Armitage
                        directed. One of the bedrooms was utilized as a closet, and garments for
                        every imaginable occasion were brought forth. There were stout English
                        tweeds for the heaviest weather, two dress suits, and Norfolk jackets in
                        corduroy. The owner's taste ran to grays and browns, it seemed, and
                        he whimsically ordered his raiment grouped by colors as he lounged about
                        with a pipe in his mouth.
                    
                    "You may hang those scarfs on the string provided by my predecessor,
                        Sergeant. They will help our color scheme. That pale blue doesn't
                        blend well in our rainbowput it in your pocket and wear it, with my
                        compliments; and those tan shoes are not bad for the Virginia muddrop them
                        here. Those gray campaign hats are comfortablegive the oldest to me. And
                        there is a riding-cloak I had forgotten I ever ownedI gave gold for it to a
                        Madrid tailor. The mountain nights are cool, and the thing may serve me
                        well," he added whimsically.
                    He clapped on the hat and flung the cloak upon his shoulders. It fell to his
                        heels, and he gathered it together with one hand at the waist and strutted
                        out into the hall, whither Oscar followed, staring, as Armitage began to
                        declaim:
                    
                        "'Give me my robe; put on my crown; I have
                        Immortal longings in me!'
                    
                    "'Tis an inky cloak, as dark as Hamlet's mind; I
                        will go forth upon a bloody business, and who hinders me shall know the
                        bitter taste of death. Oscar, by the faith of my body, you shall be the
                        Horatio of the tragedy. Set me right afore the world if treason be my
                        undoing, and while we await the trumpets, cast that silly pair of  trousers as rubbish to the void, and choose
                        of mine own raiment as thou wouldst, knave! And now
                    
                        "'Nothing can we call our own but death,
                        And that small model of the barren earth
                        Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
                        For God's sake, let us sit upon the ground
                        And tell sad stories of the death of kings."
                    
                    Then he grew serious, tossed the cloak and hat upon a bench that ran round
                        the room, and refilled and lighted his pipe. Oscar, soberly unpacking, saw
                        Armitage pace the hall floor for an hour, deep in thought.
                    "Oscar," he called abruptly, "how far is it down
                        to Storm Springs?"
                    "A forced march, and you are there in an hour and a half,
                        sir."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE LADY OF THE PERGOLA
                    
                        
                            April, April,
                            Laugh thy girlish laughter;
                            Then, the moment after,
                            Weep thy girlish tears!
                            April, that mine ears
                            Like a lover greetest,
                            If I tell thee, sweetest,
                            All my hopes and fears,
                            April, April,
                            Laugh thy golden laughter,
                            But, the moment after,
                            Weep thy golden tears!
                            
                                William Watson.
                            
                        
                    
                    A few photographs of foreign scenes tacked on the walls; a Roman blanket hung
                        as a tapestry over the mantel; a portfolio and traveler's writing
                        materials distributed about a table produced for the purpose, and additions
                        to the meager book-shelfa line of Baedekers, a pocket atlas, a comprehensive
                        American railway guide, several volumes of German and French poetryand the
                        place was not so bad. Armitage slept for an hour after  a simple luncheon had been prepared by Oscar, studied his
                        letters and cablegramsmade, in fact, some notes in regard to themand wrote
                        replies. Then, at four o'clock, he told Oscar to saddle the
                        horses.
                    "It is spring, and in April a man's blood will not be
                        quiet. We shall go forth and taste the air."
                    He had studied the map of Lamar County with care, and led the way out of his
                        own preserve by the road over which they had entered in the morning. Oscar
                        and his horses were a credit to the training of the American army, and would
                        have passed inspection anywhere. Armitage watched his adjutant with
                        approval. The man served without question, and, quicker of wit than of
                        speech, his buff-gauntleted hand went to his hat-brim whenever Armitage
                        addressed him.
                    They sought again the spot whence Armitage had first looked down upon Storm
                        Valley, and he opened his pocket map, the better to clarify his ideas of the
                        region.
                    "We shall go down into the valley, Oscar," he said; and
                        thereafter it was he that led.
                    They struck presently into an old road that had been an early highway across
                        the mountains. Above and below the forest hung gloomily, and passing clouds
                        darkened the slopes and occasionally spilled rain. Armitage  drew on his cloak and Oscar enveloped himself
                        in a slicker as they rode through a sharp shower. At a lower level they came
                        into fair weather again, and, crossing a bridge, rode down into Storm
                        Valley. The road at once bore marks of care; and they passed a number of
                        traps that spoke unmistakably of cities, and riders whose mounts knew well
                        the bridle-paths of Central Park. The hotel loomed massively before them,
                        and beyond were handsome estates and ambitious mansions scattered through
                        the valley and on the lower slopes.
                    Armitage paused in a clump of trees and dismounted.
                    "You will stay here until I come back. And remember that we
                        don't know any one; and at our time of life, Oscar, one should be
                        wary of making new acquaint-ances."
                    He tossed his cloak over the saddle and walked toward the inn. The size of
                        the place and the great number of people going and coming surprised him, but
                        in the numbers he saw his own security, and he walked boldly up the steps of
                        the main hotel entrance. He stepped into the long corridor of the inn, where
                        many people lounged about, and heard with keen satisfaction and relief the
                        click of a telegraph instrument that seemed at once to bring him into
                        contact with the remote world. He  filed his
                        telegrams and walked the length of the broad hall, his riding-crop under his
                        arm. The gay banter and laughter of a group of young men and women just
                        returned from a drive gave him a touch of heartache, for there was a girl
                        somewhere in the valley whom he had followed across the sea, and these
                        people were of her own worldthey undoubtedly knew her; very likely she came
                        often to this huge caravansary and mingled with them.
                    At the entrance he passed Baron von Marhof, who, by reason of the death of
                        his royal chief, had taken a cottage at the Springs to emphasize his
                        abstention from the life of the capital. The Ambassador lifted his eyes and
                        bowed to Armitage, as he bowed to a great many young men whose names he
                        never remembered; but, oddly enough, the Baron paused, stared after Armitage
                        for a moment, then shook his head and walked on with knit brows. Armitage
                        had lifted his hat and passed out, tapping his leg with his crop.
                    He walked toward the private houses that lay scattered over the valley and
                        along the gradual slope of the hills as though carelessly flung from a dice
                        box. Many of the places were handsome estates, with imposing houses set amid
                        beautiful gardens. Half a mile from  the hotel
                        he stopped a passing negro to ask who owned a large house that stood well
                        back from the road. The man answered; he seemed anxious to impart further
                        information, and Armitage availed himself of the opportunity.
                    "How near is Judge Claiborne's place?" he
                        asked.
                    The man pointed. It was the next house, on the right-hand side; and Armitage
                        smiled to himself and strolled on.
                    He looked down in a moment upon a pretty estate, distinguished by its formal
                        garden, but with the broad acres of a practical farm stretching far out into
                        the valley. The lawn terraces were green, broken only by plots of spring
                        flowers; the walks were walled in box and privet; the house, of the pillared
                        colonial type, crowned a series of terraces. A long pergola, with pillars
                        topped by red urns, curved gradually through the garden toward the mansion.
                        Armitage followed a side road along the brick partition wall and
                        contemplated the inner landscape. The sharp snap of a gardener's
                        shears far up the slope was the only sound that reached him. It was a
                        charming place, and he yielded to a temptation to explore it. He dropped
                        over the wall and strolled away through the garden, the smell of warm earth,
                        moist from  the day's light showers,
                        and the faint odor of green things growing, sweet in his nostrils. He walked
                        to the far end of the pergola, sat down on a wooden bench, and gave himself
                        up to reverie. He had been denounced as an impostor; he was on Claiborne
                        soil; and the situation required thought.
                    It was while he thus pondered his affairs that Shirley, walking over the soft
                        lawn from a neighboring estate, came suddenly upon him.
                    Her head went up with surprise andhe was surewith disdain. She stopped
                        abruptly as he jumped to his feet.
                    "I am caughtin flagrante delicto! I can only plead
                        guilty and pray for mercy."
                    "They saidthey said you had gone to Mexico?" said Shirley
                        questioningly.
                    "Plague take the newspapers! How dare they so misrepresent
                        me!" he laughed.
                    "Yes, I read those newspaper articles with a good deal of interest.
                        And my brother"
                    "Yes, your brotherhe is the best fellow in the world!"
                    She mused, but a smile of real mirth now played over her face and lighted her
                        eyes.
                    
                    "Those are generous words, Mr. Armitage. My brother warned me
                        against you in quite unequivocal language. He told me about your
                        match-box"
                    "Oh, the cigarette case!" and he held it up.
                        "It's really mineand I'm going to keep it. It was
                        very damaging evidence. It would argue strongly against me in any court of
                        law."
                    "Yes, I believe that is true." And she looked at the
                        trinket with frank interest.
                    "But I particularly do not wish to have to meet that charge in any
                        court of law, Miss Claiborne."
                    She met his gaze very steadily, and her eyes were grave. Then she asked, in
                        much the same tone that she would have used if they had been very old
                        friends and he had excused himself for not riding that day, or for not going
                        upon a hunt, or to the theater:
                    "Why?"
                    "Because I have a pledge to keep and a work to do, and if I were
                        forced to defend myself from the charge of being the false Baron von Kissel,
                        everything would be spoiled. You see, unfortunatelymost unfortunatelyI am
                        not quite without responsibilities, and I have come down into the mountains,
                        where I hope not to be shot and tossed over a precipice until I have had
                        time  to watch certain people and certain
                        events a little while. I tried to say as much to Captain Claiborne, but I
                        saw that my story did not impress him. And now I have said the same thing to
                        you"
                    He waited, gravely watching her, hat in hand.
                    "And I have stood here and listened to you, and done exactly what
                        Captain Claiborne would not wish me to do under any circumstances,"
                        said Shirley.
                    "You are infinitely kind and generous"
                    "No. I do not wish you to think me either of those thingsof course
                        not!"
                    Her conclusion was abrupt and pointed.
                    "Then"
                    "Then I will tell youwhat I have not told any one elsethat I know
                        very well that you are not the person who appeared at Bar Harbor three years
                        ago and palmed himself off as the Baron von Kissel."
                    "You know ityou are quite sure of it?" he asked
                        blankly.
                    "Certainly. I saw that personat Bar Harbor. I had gone up from
                        Newport for a weekI was even at a tea where he was quite the lion, and I am
                        sure you are not the same person."
                    Her direct manner of speech, her decisive tone, in  which she placed the matter of his identity on a purely
                        practical and unsentimental plane, gave him a new impression of her
                        character.
                    "But Captain Claiborne"
                    He ceased suddenly and she anticipated the question at which he had faltered,
                        and answered, a little icily:
                    "I do not consider it any of my business to meddle in your affairs
                        with my brother. He undoubtedly believes you are the impostor who palmed
                        himself off at Bar Harbor as the Baron von Kissel. He was told
                        so"
                    "By Monsieur Chauvenet."
                    "So he said."
                    "And of course he is a capital witness. There is no doubt of
                        Chauvenet's entire credibility," declared Armitage, a
                        little airily.
                    "I should say not," said Shirley unresponsively.
                        "I am quite as sure that he was not the false baron as I am that
                        you were not."
                    Armitage laughed.
                    "That is a little pointed."
                    "It was meant to be," said Shirley sternly. "It
                        is"she weighed the word"ridiculous that both of you should
                        be here."
                    "Thank you, for my half! I didn't know he was here!
                    
                    But I am not exactly hereI have a much safer
                        place," he swept the blue-hilled horizon with his hand.
                        "Monsieur Chauvenet and I will not shoot at each other in the hotel
                        dining-room. But I am really relieved that he has come. We have an
                        interesting fashion of running into each other; it would positively grieve
                        me to be obliged to wait long for him."
                    He smiled and thrust his hat under his arm. The sun was dropping behind the
                        great western barricade, and a chill wind crept sharply over the valley.
                    He started to walk beside her as she turned away, but she paused
                        abruptly.
                    "Oh, this won't do at all! I can't be seen with
                        you, even in the shadow of my own house. I must trouble you to take the side
                        gate,"and she indicated it by a nod of her head.
                    "Not if I know myself! I am not a fraudulent member of the German
                        nobilityyou have told me so yourself. Your conscience is clearI assure you
                        mine is equally so! And I am not a person, Miss Claiborne, to sneak out by
                        side gatesparticularly when I came over the fence! It's a long way
                        around anyhowand I have a horse over there somewhere by the
                        inn."
                    "My brother"
                    
                    "Is at Fort Myer, of course. At about this hour they are having
                        dress parade, and he is thoroughly occupied."
                    "Butthere is Monsieur Chauvenet. He has nothing to do but amuse
                        himself."
                    They had reached the veranda steps, and she ran to the top and turned for a
                        moment to look at him. He still carried his hat and crop in one hand, and
                        had dropped the other into the side pocket of his coat. He was wholly at
                        ease, and the wind ruffled his hair and gave him a boyish look that Shirley
                        liked. But she had no wish to be found with him, and she instantly nodded
                        his dismissal and half turned away to go into the house, when he detained
                        her for a moment.
                    "I am perfectly willing to afford Monsieur Chauvenet all imaginable
                        entertainment. We are bound to have many meetings. I am afraid he reached
                        this charming valley before me; butas a ruleI prefer to be a little ahead of
                        him; it's a whimthe merest whim, I assure you."
                    He laughed, thinking little of what he said, but delighting in the picture
                        she made, the tall pillars of the veranda framing her against the white wall
                        of the house, and the architrave high above speaking, so he thought, for the
                        amplitude, the breadth of her nature. Her green 
                        
                            He delighted in the picture she made Page
                                    190
                            
                        
                         cloth gown afforded the happiest possible
                        contrast with the white background; and her hat(for a gown, let us remember,
                        may express the dressmaker, but a hat expresses the woman who wears it)her
                        hat, Armitage was aware, was a trifle of black velvet caught up at one side
                        with snowy plumes well calculated to shock the sensibilities of the Audubon
                        Society. Yet the bird, if he knew, doubtless rejoiced in his fate!
                        Shirley's hand, thrice laid down, and there you have the length of
                        that velvet cap, plume and all. Her profile, as she half turned away, must
                        awaken regret that Reynolds and Gainsborough paint no more; yet let us be
                        practical: Sargent, in this particular, could not serve us ill.
                    Her annoyance at finding herself lingering to listen to him was marked in an
                        almost imperceptible gathering of her brows. It was all the matter of an
                        instant. His heart beat fast in his joy at the sight of her, and the tongue
                        that years of practice had skilled in reserve and evasion was possessed by a
                        reckless spirit.
                    She nodded carelessly, but said nothing, waiting for him to go on.
                    "But when I wait for people they always comeeven in a strange
                        pergola!" he added daringly. "Now, in Geneva, not long
                        ago"
                    
                    He lost the profile and gained her face as he liked it best, though her head
                        was lifted a little high in resentment against her own yielding curiosity.
                        He was speaking rapidly, and the slight hint of some other tongue than his
                        usually fluent English arrested her ear now, as it had at other times.
                    "In Geneva, when I told a young lady that I was waiting for a very
                        wicked man to appearit was really the oddest thing in the world that almost
                        immediately Monsieur Jules Chauvenet arrived at mine own inn! It is
                        inevitable; it is always sure to be my fate," he concluded
                        mournfully.
                    He bowed low, restored the shabby hat to his head with the least bit of a
                        flourish and strolled away through the garden by a broad walk that led to
                        the front gate.
                    He would have been interested to know that when he was out of sight Shirley
                        walked to the veranda rail and bent forward, listening to his steps on the
                        gravel, after the hedge and shrubbery had hidden him. And she stood thus
                        until the faint click of the gate told her that he had gone.
                    She did not know that as the gate closed upon him he met Chauvenet face to
                        face.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    AN ENFORCED INTERVIEW
                    
                        
                            
                                En garde, Messieurs! And if my hand is hard,
                            Remember I've been buffeting at will;
                            I am a whit impatient, and 'tis ill
                            To cross a hungry dog. Messieurs, en garde.
                            
                            
                                W. Lindsey.
                            
                        
                    
                    "Monsieur Chauvenet!"
                    Armitage uncovered smilingly. Chauvenet stared mutely as Armitage paused with
                        his back to the Claiborne gate. Chauvenet was dressed with his usual care,
                        and wore the latest carnation in the lapel of his top-coat. He struck the
                        ground with his stick, his look of astonishment passed, and he smiled
                        pleasantly as he returned Armitage's salutation.
                    "My dear Armitage!" he murmured.
                    "I didn't go to Mexico after all, my good Chauvenet. The
                        place is full of fevers; I couldn't take the risk."
                    "He is indeed a wise man who safeguards his health,"
                        replied the other.
                    
                    "You are quite right. And when one has had many narrow escapes, one
                        may be excused for exercising rather particular care. Do you not find it
                        so?" mocked Armitage.
                    "My dear fellow, my life is one long fight against ennui. Danger,
                        excitement, the hazard of my precious lifesuch pleasures of late have been
                        denied me."
                    "But you are young and of intrepid spirit, Monsieur. It would be
                        quite surprising if some perilous adventure did not overtake you before the
                        silver gets in your hair."
                    "Ah! I assure you the speculation interests me; but I must trouble
                        you to let the pass," continued Chauvenet, in the same tone.
                        "I shall quite forget that I set out to make a call if I linger
                        longer in your charming society."
                    "But I must ask you to delay your call for the present. I shall
                        greatly value your company down the road a little way. It is a trifling
                        favor, and you are a man of delightful courtesy."
                    Chauvenet twisted his mustache reflectively. His mind had been busy seeking
                        means of turning the meeting to his own advantage. He had met Armitage at
                        quite the least imaginable spot in the world for an encounter between them;
                        and he was not a man who enjoyed  surprises.
                        He had taken care that the exposure of Armitage at Washington should be
                        telegraphed to every part of the country, and put upon the cables. He had
                        expected Armitage to leave Washington, but he had no idea that he would turn
                        up at a fashionable resort greatly affected by Washingtonians and only a
                        comparatively short distance from the capital. He was at a great
                        disadvantage in not knowing Armitage's plans and strategy; his own
                        mind was curiously cunning, and his reasoning powers traversed oblique
                        lines. He was thus prone to impute similar mental processes to other people;
                        simplicity and directness he did not understand at all. He had underrated
                        Armitage's courage and daring; he wished to make no further
                        mistakes, and he walked back toward the hotel with apparent good grace.
                        Armitage spoke now in a very different key, and the change displeased
                        Chauvenet, for he much affected ironical raillery, and his
                        companion's sterner tones disconcerted him.
                    "I take this opportunity to give you a solemn warning, Monsieur
                        Jules Chauvenet, alias Rambaud, and thereby render you a greater service
                        than you know. You have undertaken a deep and dangerous gameit is
                        spectacularit is picturesqueit is immense! It is so stupendous  that the taking of a few lives seems trifling
                        in comparison with the end to be attained. Now look about you for a moment,
                        Monsieur Jules Chauvenet! In this mountain air a man may grow very sane and
                        see matters very clearly. London, Paris, Berlin, Viennathey are a long way
                        off, and the things they stand for lose their splendor when a man sits among
                        these American mountains and reflects upon the pettiness and sordidness of
                        man's common ambitions."
                    "Is this exordium or peroration, my dear fellow?"
                    "It is both," replied Armitage succinctly, and Chauvenet
                        was sorry he had spoken, for Armitage stopped short in a lonely stretch of
                        the highway and continued in a disagreeable, incisive tone:
                    "I ran away from Washington after you told that story at
                        Claiborne's supper-table, not because I was afraid of your
                        accusation, but because I wanted to watch your plans a little in security.
                        The only man who could have helped me immediately was Senator Sanderson, and
                        I knew that he was in Montana." Chauvenet smiled with a return of
                        assurance. "Of course. The hour was chosen well!"
                    "More wisely, in fact, than your choice of that big assassin of
                        yours. He's a clumsy fellow, with more  brawn than brains. I had no trouble in shaking him off in Boston, where
                        you probably advised him I should be taking the Montreal
                        express."
                    Chauvenet blinked. This was precisely what he had told Zmai to expect. He
                        shifted from one foot to another, and wondered just how he was to escape
                        from Armitage. He had gone to Storm Springs to be near Shirley Claiborne,
                        and he deeply resented having business thrust upon him.
                    "He is a wise man who wields the knife himself, Monsieur Chauvenet.
                        In the taking of poor Count von Stroebel's life so deftly and
                        secretly, you prove my philosophy. It was a clever job,
                        Monsieur!"
                    Chauvenet's gloved fingers caught at his mustache.
                    "That is almost insulting, Monsieur Armitage. A distinguished
                        statesman is killedtherefore I must have murdered him. You forget that
                        there's a difference between usyou are an unknown adventurer,
                        carried on the books of the police as a fugitive from justice, and I can
                        walk to the hotel and get twenty reputable men to vouch for me. I advise you
                        to be careful not to mention my name in connection with Count von
                        Stroebel's death."
                    He had begun jauntily, but closed in heat, and when  he finished Armitage nodded to signify that he understood
                        perfectly.
                    "A few more deaths and you would be in a position to command tribute
                        from a high quarter, Monsieur."
                    "Your mind seems to turn upon assassination. If you know so much
                        about Stroebel's death, it's unfortunate that you left
                        Europe at a time when you might have rendered important aid in finding the
                        murderer. It's a bit suspicious, Monsieur Armitage! It is known at
                        the Hotel Monte Rosa in Geneva that you were the last person to enjoy an
                        interview with the venerable statesmanyou see I am not dull, Monsieur
                        Armitage!"
                    "You are not dull, Chauvenet; you are only shortsighted. The same
                        witnesses know that John Armitage was at the Hotel Monte Rosa for
                        twenty-four hours following the Count's departure. Meanwhile, where
                        were you, Jules Chauvenet?"
                    Chauvenet's hand again went to his face, which whitened, though he
                        sought refuge again in flippant irony.
                    "To be sure! Where was I, Monsieur? Undoubtedly you know all my
                        movements, so that it is unnecessary for me to have any opinions in the
                        matter."
                    "Quite so! Your opinions are not of great value to  me, for I employed agents to trace every move
                        you made during the month in which Count von Stroebel was stabbed to death
                        in his railway carriage. It is so interesting that I have committed the
                        record to memory. If the story would interest you"
                    The hand that again sought the slight mustache trembled slightly; but
                        Chauvenet smiled.
                    "You should write the memoirs of your very interesting career, my
                        dear fellow. I can not listen to your babble longer."
                    "I do not intend that you shall; but your whereabouts on Monday
                        night, March eighteenth, of this year, may need explanation, Monsieur
                        Chauvenet."
                    "If it should, I shall call upon you, my dear fellow!"
                    "Save yourself the trouble! The bureau I employed to investigate the
                        matter could assist you much better. All I could offer would be copies of
                        its very thorough reports. The number of cups of coffee your friend Durand
                        drank for breakfast this morning at his lodgings in Vienna will reach me in
                        due course!"
                    "You are really a devil of a fellow, John Armitage! So much
                        knowledge! So acute an intellect! You are too wise to throw away your life
                        futilely."
                    "You have been most generous in sparing it thus  far!" laughed Armitage, and Chauvenet took instant
                        advantage of his change of humor.
                    "PerhapsperhapsI have pledged my faith in the wrong quarter,
                        Monsieur. If I may say it, we are both fairly clever men; together we could
                        achieve much!"
                    "So you would sell out, would you?" laughed Armitage.
                        "You miserable little blackguard, I should like to join forces with
                        you! Your knack of getting the poison into the right cup every time would be
                        a valuable asset! But we are not made for each other in this world. In the
                        nextwho knows?"
                    "As you will! I dare say you would be an exacting
                        partner."
                    "All of that, Chauvenet! You do best to stick to your present
                        employer. He needs you and the like of youI don't! But rememberif
                        there's a sudden death in Vienna, in a certain high quarter, you
                        will not live to reap the benefits. Charles Louis rules Austria-Hungary; his
                        cousin, your friend Francis, is not of kingly proportions. I advise you to
                        cable the amiable Durand of a dissolution of partnership. It is now too late
                        for you to call at Judge Claiborne's, and I shall trouble you to
                        walk on down the road for ten minutes. If you look round or follow me, I
                        shall certainly turn you into  something less
                        attractive than a pillar of salt. You do well to consult your
                        watchforward!"
                    Armitage pointed down the road with his riding-crop. As Chauvenet walked
                        slowly away, swinging his stick, Armitage turned toward the hotel. The
                        shadow of night was enfolding the hills, and it was quite dark when he found
                        Oscar and the horses.
                    He mounted, and they rode through the deepening April dusk, up the winding
                        trail that led out of Storm Valley.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    SHIRLEY LEARNS A SECRET
                    
                        
                            Nightingales warble about it
                            All night under blossom and star;
                            The wild swan is dying without it,
                            And the eagle crieth afar;
                            The sun, he doth mount but to find it
                            Searching the green earth o'er;
                            But more doth a man's heart mind it
                            O more, more, more!
                            
                                G. E. Woodberry.
                            
                        
                    
                    Shirley Claiborne was dressed for a ride, and while waiting for her horse she
                        re-read her brother's letter; and the postscript, which follows,
                        she read twice:
                    "I shall never live down my acquaintance with the delectable
                        Armitage. My brother officers insist on rubbing it in. I even hear, ma chrie, that you have gone into retreat by reason of the
                        exposure. I'll admit, for your consolation, that he really took me
                        in; and, further, I really wonder who the devil he is,or was! Our last interview at the Club, after Chauvenet told his
                        story, lingers with me disagreeably. I was naturally pretty hot to find him
                        playing the darkly mysterious,  which never
                        did go with me,after eating my bird and drinking my bottle. As a precaution
                        I have looked up Chauvenet to the best of my ability. At the
                        Austro-Hungarian Embassy they speak well of him. He's over here to
                        collect the price of a few cruisers or some such rubbish from one of our
                        sister republics below the Gulf. But bad luck to all foreigners! Me for
                        America every time!"
                    "Dear old Dick!" and she dropped the letter into a drawer
                        and went out into the sunshine, mounted her horse and turned toward the
                        hills.
                    She had spent the intermediate seasons of the year at Storm Springs ever
                        since she could remember, and had climbed the surrounding hills and dipped
                        into the valleys with a boy's zest and freedom. The Virginia
                        mountains were linked in her mind to the dreams of her youth, to her
                        earliest hopes and aspirations, and to the books she had read, and she
                        galloped happily out of the valley to the tune of an old ballad. She rode as
                        a woman should, astride her horse and not madly clinging to it in the
                        preposterous ancient fashion. She had known horses from early years, in
                        which she had tumbled from her pony's back in the stable-yard, and
                        she knew how to train a horse to a gait and how to master a beast's
                        fear; and  even some of the tricks of the
                        troopers in the Fort Myer drill she had surreptitiously practised in the
                        meadow back of the Claiborne stable.
                    It was on Tuesday that John Armitage had appeared before her in the pergola.
                        It was now Thursday afternoon, and Chauvenet had been to see her twice
                        since, and she had met him the night before at a dance at one of the
                        cottages.
                    Judge Claiborne was distinguished for his acute and sinewy mind; but he had,
                        too, a strong feeling for art in all its expressions, and it was his gift of
                        imagination,the ability to forecast the enemy's strategy and then
                        strike his weakest point,that had made him a great lawyer and diplomat.
                        Shirley had played chess with her father until she had learned to see around
                        corners as he did, and she liked a problem, a test of wit, a contest of
                        powers. She knew how to wait and ponder in silence, and therein lay the joy
                        of the saddle, when she could ride alone with no groom to bother her, and
                        watch enchantments unfold on the hilltops.
                    Once free of the settlement she rode far and fast, until she was quite beyond
                        the usual routes of the Springs excursionists; then in mountain byways she
                        enjoyed the luxury of leisure and dismounted now and  then to delight in the green of the laurel and question the
                        rhododendrons.
                    Jules Chauvenet had scoured the hills all day and explored many mountain
                        paths and inquired cautiously of the natives. The telegraph operator at the
                        Storm Springs inn was a woman, and the despatch and receipt by Jules
                        Chauvenet of long messages, many of them in cipher, piqued her curiosity. No
                        member of the Washington diplomatic circle who came to the Springs,not even
                        the shrewd and secretive Russian Ambassador,received longer or more cryptic
                        cables. With the social diversions of the Springs and the necessity for
                        making a show of having some legitimate business in America, Jules Chauvenet
                        was pretty well occupied; and now the presence of John Armitage in Virginia
                        added to his burdens.
                    He was tired and perplexed, and it was with unaffected pleasure that he rode
                        out of an obscure hill-path into a bit of open wood overhanging a curious
                        defile and came upon Shirley Claiborne.
                    The soil was soft and his horse carried him quite near before she heard him.
                        A broad sheet of water flashed down the farther side of the narrow pass,
                        sending up a pretty spurt of spray wherever it struck the jutting rock.  As Shirley turned toward him he urged his
                        horse over the springy turf.
                    "A pity to disturb the picture, Miss Claiborne! A thousand pardons!
                        But I really wished to see whether the figure could come out of the canvas.
                        Now that I have dared to make the test, pray do not send me
                        away."
                    Her horse turned restlessly and brought her face to face with Chauvenet.
                    "Steady, Fanny! Don't come near her, please" this
                        last to Chauvenet, who had leaped down and put out his hand to her
                        horse's bridle. She had the true horsewoman's pride in
                        caring for herself and her eyes flashed angrily for a moment at
                        Chauvenet's proffered aid. A man might open a door for her or pick
                        up her handkerchief, but to touch her horse was an altogether different
                        business. The pretty, graceful mare was calm in a moment and arched her neck
                        contentedly under the stroke of Shirley's hand.
                    "Beautiful! The picture is even more perfect,
                        Made-moiselle!"
                    "Fanny is best in action, and splendid when she runs away. She
                        hasn't run away to-day, but I think she is likely to before I get
                        home."
                    She was thinking of the long ride which she had no  intention of taking in Chauvenet's company. He stood
                        uncovered beside her, holding his horse.
                    "But the danger, Mademoiselle! You should not hazard your life with
                        a runaway horse on these roads. It is not fair to your
                        friends."
                    "You are a conservative, Monsieur. I should be ashamed to have a
                        runaway in a city park, but what does one come to the country
                        for?"
                    "What, indeed, but for excitement? You are not of those tame young
                        women across the sea who come out into the world from a convent, frightened
                        at all they see and whisper 'Yes, Sister,' 'No,
                        Sister,' to everything they hear."
                    "Yes; we Americans are deficient in shyness and humility. I have
                        often heard it remarked, Monsieur Chauvenet."
                    "No! No! You misunderstand! Those deficiencies, as you term them,
                        are delightful; they are what give the charm to the American woman. I hope
                        you would not believe me capable of speaking in disparagement,
                        Mademoiselle,you must know"
                    The water tumbled down the rock into the vale; the soft air was sweet with
                        the scent of pines. An eagle cruised high against the blue overhead.
                        Shirley's hand  tightened on the
                        rein, and Fanny lifted her head expectantly.
                    Chauvenet went on rapidly in French:
                    "You must know why I am herewhy I have crossed the sea to seek you
                        in your own home. I have loved you, Mademoiselle, from the moment I first
                        saw you in Florence. Here, with only the mountains, the sky, the wood, I
                        must speak. You must hearyou must believe, that I love you! I offer you my
                        life, my poor attainments"
                    "Monsieur, you do me a great honor, but I can not listen. What you
                        ask is impossible, quite impossible. But, Monsieur"
                    Her eyes had fallen upon a thicket behind him where something had stirred.
                        She thought at first that it was an animal of some sort; but she saw now
                        quite distinctly a man's shabby felt hat that rose slowly until the
                        bearded face of its wearer was disclosed.
                    "Monsieur!" cried Shirley in a low tone; "look
                        behind you and be careful what you say or do. Leave the man to
                        me."
                    Chauvenet turned and faced a scowling mountaineer who held a rifle and drew
                        it to his shoulder as Chauvenet threw out his arms, dropped them to his
                        thighs and laughed carelessly.
                    
                    "What is it, my dear fellowmy watchmy pursemy horse?" he
                        said in English.
                    "He wants none of those things," said Shirley, urging her
                        horse a few steps toward the man. "The mountain people are not
                        robbers. What can we do for you?" she asked pleasantly.
                    "You cain't do nothin' for me," drawled
                        the man. "Go on away, Miss. I want to see this little
                        fella'. I got a little business with him."
                    "He is a foreignerhe knows little of our language. You will do best
                        to let me stay," said Shirley.
                    She had not the remotest idea of what the man wanted, but she had known the
                        mountain folk from childhood and well understood that familiarity with their
                        ways and tact were necessary in dealing with them.
                    "Miss, I have seen you befo', and I reckon we
                        ain't got no cause for trouble with you; but this little
                        fella' ain't no business up hy'eh. Them hotel
                        people has their own places to ride and drive, and it's all right
                        for you, Miss; but what's yo' frien'
                        ridin' the hills for at night? He's lookin' for
                        some un', and I reckon as how that some un' air
                        me!"
                    He spoke drawlingly with a lazy good humor in his tones, and
                        Shirley's wits took advantage of his deliberation  to consider the situation from several points
                        of view. Chauvenet stood looking from Shirley to the man and back again. He
                        was by no means a coward, and he did not in the least relish the thought of
                        owing his safety to a woman. But the confidence with which Shirley addressed
                        the man, and her apparent familiarity with the peculiarities of the
                        mountaineers impressed him. He spoke to her rapidly in French.
                    "Assure the man that I never heard of him before in my lifethat the
                        idea of seeking him never occurred to me."
                    The riflea repeater of the newest typewent to the man's shoulder in
                        a flash and the blue barrel pointed at Chauvenet's head.
                    "None o' that! I reckon the American language air good
                        enough for these 'ere negotiations."
                    Chauvenet shrugged his shoulders; but he gazed into the muzzle of the rifle
                        unflinchingly.
                    "The gentleman was merely explaining that you are mistaken; that he
                        does not know you and never heard of you before, and that he has not been
                        looking for you in the mountains or anywhere else."
                    As Shirley spoke these words very slowly and distinctly she questioned for
                        the first time Chauvenet's position. 
                        
                            "You air a liar, seh!" Page 211
                            
                        
                         Perhaps, after all, the mountaineer had a
                        real cause of grievance. It seemed wholly unlikely, but while she listened
                        to the man's reply she weighed the matter judicially. They were in
                        an unfrequented part of the mountains, which cottagers and hotel guests
                        rarely explored. The mountaineer was saying:
                    "Mountain folks air slow, and we don't know much, but a
                        stranger don't ride through these hills more than once for the
                        scenery; the second time he's got to tell why; and the third
                        timewell, Miss, you kin tell the little fella' that there
                        ain't no third time."
                    Chauvenet flushed and he ejaculated hotly:
                    "I have never been here before in my life."
                    The man dropped the rifle into his arm without taking his eyes from
                        Chauvenet. He said succinctly, but still with his drawl:
                    "You air a liar, seh!"
                    Chauvenet took a step forward, looked again into the rifle barrel, and
                        stopped short. Fanny, bored by the prolonged interview, bent her neck and
                        nibbled at a weed.
                    "This gentleman has been in America only a few weeks; you are
                        certainly mistaken, friend," said Shirley boldly. Then the color
                        flashed into her face, as an  explanation of
                        the mountaineer's interest in a stranger riding the hills occurred
                        to her.
                    "My friend," she said, "I am Miss Claiborne. You
                        may know my father's house down in the valley. We have been coming
                        here as far back as I can remember."
                    The mountaineer listened to her gravely, and at her last words he
                        unconsciously nodded his head. Shirley, seeing that he was interested,
                        seized her advantage.
                    "I have no reason for misleading you. This gentleman is not a
                        revenue man. He probably never heard of astill, do you call it?in his
                        life" and she smiled upon him sweetly. "But if you will
                        let him go I promise to satisfy you entirely in the matter."
                    Chauvenet started to speak, but Shirley arrested him with a gesture, and
                        spoke again to the mountaineer in her most engaging tone:
                    "We are both mountaineers, you and I, and we don't want any
                        of our people to be carried off to jail. Isn't that so? Now let
                        this gentleman ride away, and I shall stay here until I have quite assured
                        you that you are mistaken about him."
                    She signaled Chauvenet to mount, holding the mystified and reluctant
                        mountaineer with her eyes. Her heart was thumping fast and her hand shook a
                        little as she  tightened her grasp on the
                        rein. She addressed Chauvenet in English as a mark of good faith to their
                        captor.
                    "Ride on, Monsieur; do not wait for me."
                    "But it is growing darkI can not leave you alone, Mademoiselle. You
                        have rendered me a great service, when it is I who should have extricated
                        you"
                    "Pray do not mention it! It is a mere chance that I am able to help.
                        I shall be perfectly safe with this gentleman."
                    The mountaineer took off his hat.
                    "Thank ye, Miss," he said; and then to Chauvenet:
                        "Get out!"
                    "Don't trouble about me in the least, Monsieur
                        Chauvenet," and Shirley affirmed the last word with a nod as
                        Chauvenet jumped into his saddle and rode off. When the swift gallop of his
                        horse had carried him out of sight and sound down the road, Shirley faced
                        the mountaineer.
                    "What is your name?"
                    "Tom Selfridge."
                    "Whom did you take that man to be, Mr. Selfridge?" asked
                        Shirley, and in her eagerness she bent down above the mountaineer's
                        bared tangle of tow.
                    
                    "The name you called him ain't it. It's a queer
                        name I never heerd tell on befo'it'sit's like the
                        a'my"
                    "Is it Armitage?" asked Shirley quickly.
                    "That's it, Miss! The postmaster over at Lamar told me to
                        look out fer 'im. He's moved up hy'eh, and it
                        ain't fer no good. The word's out that a city
                        man's lookin' for something or somebody in these hills. And the man's
                        stayin'"
                    "Where?"
                    "At the huntin' club where folks don't go no more.
                        I ain't seen him, but th' word's passed.
                        He's a city man and a stranger, and got a little fella'
                        that's been a soldier into th' army stayin' with
                        'im. I thought yo' furriner was him, Miss, honest to God I
                        did."
                    The incident amused Shirley and she laughed aloud. She had undoubtedly gained
                        information that Chauvenet had gone forth to seek; she hadand the thing was
                        funnyserved Chauvenet well in explaining away his presence in the mountains
                        and getting him out of the clutches of the mountaineer, while at the same
                        time she was learning for herself the fact of Armitage's
                        where-abouts and keeping it from Chauvenet. It was a curious adventure, and
                        she gave her hand smilingly to the mystified and still doubting
                        mountaineer.
                    
                    "I give you my word of honor that neither man is a government
                        officer and neither one has the slightest interest in youwill you believe
                        me?"
                    "I reckon I got to, Miss."
                    "Good; and now, Mr. Selfridge, it is growing dark and I want you to
                        walk down this trail with me until we come to the Storm Springs
                        road."
                    "I'll do it gladly, Miss."
                    "Thank you; now let us be off."
                    She made him turn back when they reached a point from which they could look
                        upon the electric lights of the Springs colony, and where the big hotel and
                        its piazzas shone like a steamship at night. A moment later Chauvenet, who
                        had waited impatiently, joined her, and they rode down together. She
                        referred at once to the affair with the mountaineer in her most frivolous
                        key.
                    "They are an odd and suspicious people, but they're as
                        loyal as the stars. And please let us never mention the matter againnot to
                        any one, if you please, Monsieur!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    NARROW MARGINS
                    
                        
                            The black-caps pipe among the reeds,
                            And there'll be rain to follow;
                            There is a murmur as of wind
                            In every coign and hollow;
                            The wrens do chatter of their fears
                            While swinging on the barley-ears.
                            
                                Amlie Rives.
                            
                        
                    
                    The Judge and Mrs. Claiborne were dining with some old friends in the valley,
                        and Shirley, left alone, carried to the table several letters that had come
                        in the late mail. The events of the afternoon filled her mind, and she was
                        not sorry to be alone. It occurred to her that she was building up a
                        formidable tower of strange secrets, and she wondered whether, having begun
                        by keeping her own counsel as to the attempts she had witnessed against John
                        Armitage's life, she ought now to unfold all she knew to her father
                        or to Dick. In the twentieth century homicide was not a common practice
                        among men she knew or was likely to know; and the feeling of culpability  for her silence crossed lances with a
                        deepening sympathy for Armitage. She had learned where he was hiding, and
                        she smiled at the recollection of the trifling bit of strategy she had
                        practised upon Chauvenet.
                    The maid who served Shirley noted with surprise the long pauses in which her
                        young mistress sat staring across the table lost in reverie. A pretty
                        picture was Shirley in these intervals: one hand raised to her cheek, bright
                        from the sting of the spring wind in the hills. Her forearm, white and firm
                        and strong, was circled by a band of Roman gold, the only ornament she wore,
                        and when she lifted her hand with its quick deft gesture, the trinket
                        flashed away from her wrist and clasped the warm flesh as though in joy of
                        the closer intimacy. Her hair was swept up high from her brow; her nose,
                        straight, like her father's, was saved from arrogance by a
                        sensitive mouth, all eloquent of kindness and wholesome mirthbut we take
                        unfair advantage! A girl dining in candle-light with only her dreams for
                        company should be safe from impertinent eyes.
                    She had kept Dick's letter till the last. He wrote often and in the
                        key of his talk. She dropped a lump of sugar into her coffee-cup and read
                        his hurried scrawl:
                    "What do you think has happened now? I have fourteen  dollars' worth of telegrams from
                        Sandersonwiring from some God-forsaken hole in Montana, that it's
                        all rot about Armitage being that fake Baron von Kissel. The newspaper
                        accounts of the expos at my supper party had just reached
                        him, and he says Armitage was on his (Armitage's) ranch all that
                        summer the noble baron was devastating our northern sea-coast. Where, may I
                        ask, does this leave me? And what cad gave that story to the papers? And
                        where and who is John Armitage? Keep this mum for the
                        presenteven from the governor. If Sanderson is right, Armitage will
                        undoubtedly turn up againhe has a weakness for turning up in your
                        neighborhood!and sooner or later he's bound to settle accounts with
                        Chauvenet. Now that I think of it, who in the devil is he!
                        And why didn't Armitage call him down there at the club? As I think
                        over the whole business my mind grows addled, and I feel as though I had
                        been kicked by a horse."
                    Shirley laughed softly, keeping the note open before her and referring to it
                        musingly as she stirred her coffee. She could not answer any of
                        Dick's questions, but her interest in the contest between Armitage
                        and Chauvenet was intensified by this latest turn in the affair. She read
                        for an hour in the library, but the air was close, and she threw aside her
                        book, drew on a light coat and went out  upon
                        the veranda. A storm was stealing down from the hills, and the fitful wind
                        tasted of rain. She walked the length of the veranda several times, then
                        paused at the farther end of it, where steps led out into the pergola. There
                        was still a mist of starlight, and she looked out upon the vague outlines of
                        the garden with thoughts of its needs and the gardener's work for
                        the morrow. Then she was aware of a light step far out in the pergola, and
                        listened carelessly to mark it, thinking it one of the house servants
                        returning from a neighbor's; but the sound was furtive, and as she
                        waited it ceased abruptly. She was about to turn into the house to summon
                        help when she heard a stir in the shrubbery in quite another part of the
                        garden, and in a moment the stooping figure of a man moved swiftly toward
                        the pergola.
                    Shirley stood quite still, watching and listening. The sound of steps in the
                        pergola reached her again, then the rush of flight, and out in the garden a
                        flying figure darted in and out among the walks. For several minutes two
                        dark figures played at vigorous hide-and-seek. Occasionally gravel crunched
                        underfoot and shrubbery snapped back with a sharp swish where it was caught
                        and held for support at corners. Pursued and pursuer were alike silent; the
                        scene was like a pantomime.
                    
                    Then the tables seemed to be turned; the bulkier figure of the pursuer was
                        now in flight; and Shirley lost both for a moment, but immediately a dark
                        form rose at the wall; she heard the scratch of feet upon the brick surface
                        as a man gained the top, turned and lifted his arm as though aiming a
                        weapon.
                    Then a dark object, hurled through the air, struck him squarely in the face
                        and he tumbled over the wall, and Shirley heard him crash through the hedge
                        of the neighboring estate, then all was quiet again.
                    The game of hide-and-seek in the garden and the scramble over the wall had
                        consumed only two or three minutes, and Shirley now waited, her eyes bent
                        upon the darkly-outlined pergola for some manifestation from the remaining
                        intruder. A man now walked rapidly toward the veranda, carrying a cloak on
                        his arm. She recognized Armitage instantly. He doffed his hat and bowed. The
                        lights of the house lamps shone full upon him, and she saw that he was
                        laughing a little breathlessly.
                    "This is really fortunate, Miss Claiborne. I owe your house an
                        apology, and if you will grant me audience I will offer it to
                        you."
                    He threw the cloak over his shoulder and fanned himself with his hat.
                    
                    "You are a most informal person, Mr. Armitage," said
                        Shirley coldly.
                    "I'm afraid I am! The most amazing ill luck follows me! I
                        had dropped in to enjoy the quiet and charm of your garden, but the tranquil
                        life is not for me. There was another gentleman, equally bent on enjoying
                        the pergola. We engaged in a pretty running match, and because I was fleeter
                        of foot he grew ugly and tried to put me out of commission."
                    He was still laughing, but Shirley felt that he was again trying to make
                        light of a serious situation, and a further tie of secrecy with Armitage was
                        not to her liking. As he walked boldly to the veranda steps, she stepped
                        back from him.
                    "No! No! This is impossibleit will not do at all, Mr. Armitage. It
                        is not kind of you to come here in this strange fashion."
                    "In this way forsooth! How could I send in my card when I was being
                        chased all over the estate! I didn't mean to apologize for
                        coming"and he laughed again, with a sincere mirth that shook her
                        resolution to deal harshly with him. "But," he went on,
                        "it was the flowerpot! He was mad because I beat him in the
                        foot-race and wanted to shoot me from the wall, and I tossed him  a potted geraniumgeraniums are splendid for
                        the purposeand it caught him square in the head. I have the knack of it!
                        Once before I handed him a boiling-pot!"
                    "It must have hurt him," said Shirley; and he laughed at
                        her tone that was meant to be severe.
                    "I certainly hope so; I most devoutly hope he felt it! He was most
                        tenderly solicitous for my health; and if he had really shot me there in the
                        garden it would have had an ugly look. Armitage, the false baron, would have
                        been identified as a daring burglar, shot while trying to burglarize the
                        Claiborne mansion! But I wouldn't take the Claiborne plate for
                        anything, I assure you!"
                    "I suppose you didn't think of usall of us, and the
                        unpleasant consequences to my father and brother if something disagreeable
                        happened here!"
                    There was real anxiety in her tone, and he saw that he was going too far with
                        his light treatment of the affair. His tone changed instantly.
                    "Please forgive me! I would not cause embarrassment or annoyance to
                        any member of your family for kingdoms. I didn't know I was being
                        followedI had come here to see you. That is the truth of it."
                    "You mustn't try to see me! You mustn't come here
                        at all unless you come with the knowledge of my father.
                    
                    And the very fact that your life is sought so persistentlyat most unusual
                        times and in impossible places, leaves very much to explain."
                    "I know that! I realize all that!"
                    "Then you must not come! You must leave instantly."
                    She walked away toward the front door; but he followed, and at the door she
                        turned to him again. They were in the full glare of the door lamps, and she
                        saw that his face was very earnest, and as he began to speak he flinched and
                        shifted the cloak awkwardly.
                    "You have been hurtwhy did you not tell me that?"
                    "It is nothingthe fellow had a knife, and hebut it's only a
                        trifle in the shoulder. I must be off!"
                    The lightning had several times leaped sharply out of the hills; the wind was
                        threshing the garden foliage, and now the rain roared on the tin roof of the
                        veranda.
                    As he spoke a carriage rolled into the grounds and came rapidly toward the
                        porte-cochre.
                    "I'm offplease believe in mea little."
                    "You must not go if you are hurtand you can't run away
                        nowmy father and mother are at the door."
                    There was an instant's respite while the carriage drew  up to the veranda steps. She heard the
                        stable-boy running out to help with the horses.
                    "You can't go now; come in and wait."
                    There was no time for debate. She flung open the door and swept him past her
                        with a gesturethrough the library and beyond, into a smaller room used by
                        Judge Claiborne as an office. Armitage sank down on a leather couch as
                        Shirley flung the portires together with a sharp rattle of the rod
                        rings.
                    She walked toward the hall door as her father and mother entered from the
                        veranda.
                    "Ah, Miss Claiborne! Your father and mother picked me up and brought
                        me in out of the rain. Your Storm Valley is giving us a taste of its
                        powers."
                    And Shirley went forward to greet Baron von Marhof.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    A GENTLEMAN IN HIDING
                    
                        
                            Oh, sweetly fall the April days!
                            My love was made of frost and light,
                            Of light to warm and frost to blight
                            The sweet, strange April of her ways.
                            Eyes like a dream of changing skies,
                            And every frown and blush I prize.
                            With cloud and flush the spring comes in,
                            With frown and blush maids' loves
                                begin;
                            For love is rare like April days.
                            
                                L. Frank Tooker.
                            
                        
                    
                    Mrs. Claiborne excused herself shortly, and Shirley, her father and the
                        Ambassador talked to the accompaniment of the shower that drove in great
                        sheets against the house. Shirley was wholly uncomfortable over the turn of
                        affairs. The Ambassador would not leave until the storm abated, and
                        meanwhile Armitage must remain where he was. If by any chance he should be
                        discovered in the house no ordinary excuses would explain away his presence,
                        and as she pondered the matter, it was Armitage's plighthis
                        injuries and the dangers that beset  himthat
                        was uppermost in her mind. The embarrassment that lay in the affair for
                        herself if Armitage should be found concealed in the house troubled her
                        little. Her heart beat wildly as she realized this; and the look in his eyes
                        and the quick pain that twitched his face at the door haunted her.
                    The two men were talking of the new order of things in Vienna.
                    "The trouble is," said the Ambassador, "that
                        Austria-Hungary is not a nation, but what Metternich called Italya
                        geographical expression. Where there are so many loose ends a strong grasp
                        is necessary to hold them together."
                    "And a weak hand," suggested Judge Claiborne,
                        "might easily lose or scatter them."
                    "Precisely. And a man of character and spirit could topple down the
                        card-house to-morrow, pick out what he liked, and create for himself a new
                        edificeand a stronger one. I speak frankly. Von Stroebel is out of the way;
                        the new Emperor-king is a weakling, and if he should die to-night or
                        to-morrow"
                    The Ambassador lifted his hands and snapped his fingers.
                    "Yes; after him, what?"
                    
                    "After him his scoundrelly cousin Francis; and then a stronger than
                        Von Stroebel might easily fail to hold the disjecta membra
                        of the Empire together."
                    "But there are shadows on the screen," remarked Judge
                        Claiborne. "There was Karlthe mad prince."
                    "Humph! There was some red blood in him; but he was impossible; he
                        had a taint of democracy, treason, rebellion."
                    Judge Claiborne laughed.
                    "I don't like the combination of terms. If treason and
                        rebellion are synonyms of democracy, we Americans are in
                        danger."
                    "No; you are a miraclethat is the only explanation,"
                        replied Marhof.
                    "But a man like Karlwhat if he were to reappear in the world! A
                        little democracy might solve your problem."
                    "No, thank God! he is out of the way. He was sane enough to take
                        himself off and die."
                    "But his ghost walks. Not a year ago we heard of him; and he had a
                        son who chose his father's exile. What if Charles Louis, who is
                        without heirs, should die and Karl or his son"
                    "In the providence of God they are dead. Impostors  gain a little brief notoriety by pretending
                        to be the lost Karl or his son Frederick Augustus; but Von Stroebel
                        satisfied himself that Karl was dead. I am quite sure of it. You know dear
                        Stroebel had a genius for gaining information."
                    "I have heard as much," and Shirley and the Baron smiled at
                        Judge Claiborne's tone.
                    The storm was diminishing and Shirley grew more tranquil. Soon the Ambassador
                        would leave and she would send Armitage away; but the mention of
                        Stroebel's name rang oddly in her ears, and the curious way in
                        which Armitage and Chauvenet had come into her life awoke new and anxious
                        questions.
                    "Count von Stroebel was not a democrat, at any rate," she
                        said. "He believed in the divine right and all that."
                    "So do I, Miss Claiborne. It's all we've got to
                        stand on!"
                    "But suppose a democratic prince were to fall heir to one of the
                        European thrones, insist on giving his crown to the poor and taking his oath
                        in a frock coat, upsetting the old order entirely"
                    "He would be a fool, and the people would drag him to the block in a
                        week," declared the Baron vigorously.
                    They pursued the subject in lighter vein a few minutes  longer, then the Baron rose. Judge Claiborne summoned the
                        waiting carriage from the stable, and the Baron drove home.
                    "I ought to work for an hour on that Danish claims matter,"
                        remarked the Judge, glancing toward his curtained den.
                    "You will do nothing of the kind! Night work is not permitted in the
                        valley."
                    "Thank you! I hoped you would say that, Shirley. I believe I am
                        tired; and now if you will find a magazine for me, I'll go to bed.
                        Ring for Thomas to close the house."
                    "I have a few notes to write; they'll take only a minute,
                        and I'll write them here."
                    She heard her father's door close, listened to be quite sure that
                        the house was quiet, and threw back the curtains. Armitage stepped out into
                        the library.
                    "You must goyou must go!" she whispered with deep
                        tensity.
                    "Yes; I must go. You have been kindyou are most
                        generous"
                    But she went before him to the hall, waited, listened, for one instant; then
                        threw open the outer door and bade him go. The rain dripped heavily from the
                        eaves,  and the cool breath of the freshened
                        air was sweet and stimulating. She was immensely relieved to have him out of
                        the house, but he lingered on the veranda, staring helplessly about.
                    "I shall go home," he said, but so unsteadily that she
                        looked at him quickly. He carried the cloak flung over his shoulder and in
                        readjusting it dropped it to the floor, and she saw in the light of the door
                        lamps that his arm hung limp at his side and the gray cloth of his sleeve
                        was heavy and dark with blood. With a quick gesture she stooped and picked
                        up the cloak.
                    "Come! Come! This is all very dreadfulyou must go to a physician at
                        once."
                    "My man and horse are waiting for me; the injury is
                        nothing." But she threw the cloak over his shoulders and led the
                        way, across the veranda, and out upon the walk.
                    "I do not need the doctornot now. My man will care for
                        me."
                    He started through the dark toward the outer wall, as though confused, and
                        she went before him toward the side entrance. He was aware of her quick
                        light step, of the soft rustle of her skirts, of a wish to send her back,
                        which his tongue could not voice; but he knew that it  was sweet to follow her leading. At the gate he took his
                        bearings with a new assurance and strength.
                    "It seems that I always appear to you in some miserable fashionit is
                        preposterous for me to ask forgiveness. To thank you"
                    "Please say nothing at allbut go! Your enemies must not find you
                        here againyou must leave the valley!"
                    "I have a work to do! But it must not touch your life. Your
                        happiness is too much, too sweet to me."
                    "You must leave the bungalowI found out to-day where you are
                        staying. There is a new danger therethe mountain people think you are a
                        revenue officer. I told one of them"
                    "Yes?"
                    "that you are not! That is enough. Now hurry away. You must find
                        your horse and go."
                    He bent and kissed her hand.
                    "You trust me; that is the dearest thing in the world." His
                        voice faltered and broke in a sob, for he was worn and weak, and the mystery
                        of the night and the dark silent garden wove a spell upon him and his heart
                        leaped at the touch of his lips upon her fingers. Their figures were only
                        blurs in the dark, and their low tones  died
                        instantly, muffled by the night. She opened the gate as he began to promise
                        not to appear before her again in any way to bring her trouble; but her low
                        whisper arrested him.
                    "Do not let them hurt you again" she said; and he felt her
                        hand seek his, felt its cool furtive pressure for a moment; and then she was
                        gone. He heard the house door close a moment later, and gazing across the
                        garden, saw the lights on the veranda flash out.
                    Then with a smile on his face he strode away to find Oscar and the
                        horses.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    AN EXCHANGE OF MESSAGES
                    
                        
                            When youth was lord of my unchallenged fate,
                            And time seemed but the vassal of my will,
                            I entertained certain guests of state
                            The great of older days, who, faithful still,
                            Have kept with me the pact my youth had made.
                            
                                S. Weir Mitchell.
                            
                        
                    
                    "Who am I?" asked John Armitage soberly.
                    He tossed the stick of a match into the fireplace, where a pine-knot
                        smoldered, drew his pipe into a glow and watched Oscar screw the top on a
                        box of ointment which he had applied to Armitage's arm. The little
                        soldier turned and stood sharply at attention.
                    "You are Mr. John Armitage, sir. A man's name is what he
                        says it is. It is the rule of the country."
                    "Thank you, Oscar. Your words reassure me. There have been times
                        lately when I have been in doubt myself. You are a pretty good
                        doctor."
                    "First aid to the injured; I learned the trick from a hospital
                        steward. If you are not poisoned, and do not die, you will
                        recoveryes?"
                    
                    "Thank you, Sergeant. You are a consoling spirit; but I assure you
                        on my honor as a gentleman that if I die I shall certainly haunt you. This
                        is the fourth day. To-morrow I shall throw away the bandage and be quite
                        ready for more trouble."
                    "It would be better on the fifth"
                    "The matter is settled. You will now go for the mail; and do take
                        care that no one pots you on the way. Your death would be a positive loss to
                        me, Oscar. And if any one asks how My Majesty ismark, My Majestypray say
                        that I am quite well and equal to ruling over many kingdoms."
                    "Yes, sire."
                    And Armitage roared with laughter, as the little man, pausing as he buckled a
                        cartridge belt under his coat, bowed with a fine mockery of reverence.
                    "If a man were king he could have a devilish fine time of it,
                        Oscar."
                    "He could review many troops and they would fire salutes until the
                        powder cost much money."
                    "You are mighty right, as we say in Montana; and I'll tell
                        you quite confidentially, Sergeant, that if I were out of work and money and
                        needed a job the thought of being king might tempt me. These gentlemen who
                        are  trying to stick knives into me think
                        highly of my chances. They may force me into the business" and
                        Armitage rose and kicked the flaring knot.
                    Oscar drew on his gauntlet with a jerk.
                    "They killed the great prime ministeryes?"
                    "They undoubtedly did, Oscar."
                    "He was a good manhe was a very great man," said Oscar
                        slowly, and went quickly out and closed the door softly after him.
                    The life of the two men in the bungalow was established in a definite
                        routine. Oscar was drilled in habits of observation and attention and he
                        realized without being told that some serious business was afoot; he knew
                        that Armitage's life had been attempted, and that the receipt and
                        despatch of telegrams was a part of whatever errand had brought his master
                        to the Virginia hills. His occupations were wholly to his liking; there was
                        simple food to eat; there were horses to tend; and his errands abroad were
                        of the nature of scouting and in keeping with one's dignify who had
                        been a soldier. He rose often at night to look abroad, and sometimes he
                        found Armitage walking the veranda or returning from a tramp through the
                        wood. Armitage spent much time studying papers; and once, the day after
                        Armitage submitted  his wounded arm to
                        Oscar's care, he had seemed upon the verge of a confidence.
                    "To save life; to prevent disaster; to do a little good in the
                        worldto do something for Austriasuch things are to the soul's
                        credit, Oscar," and then Armitage's mood changed and he
                        had begun chaffing in a fashion that was beyond Oscar's
                        comprehension.
                    The little soldier rode over the hills to Lamar Station in the waning spring
                        twilight, asked at the telegraph office for messages, stuffed
                        Armitage's mail into his pockets at the post-office, and turned
                        home as the moonlight poured down the slopes and flooded the valleys. The
                        Virginia roads have been cursed by larger armies than any that ever marched
                        in Flanders, but Oscar was not a swearing man. He paused to rest his beast
                        occasionally and to observe the landscape with the eye of a strategist.
                        Moonlight, he remembered, was a useful accessory of the assassin's
                        trade, and the faint sounds of the spring night were all promptly traced to
                        their causes as they reached his alert ears.
                    At the gate of the hunting-park grounds he bent forward in the saddle to lift
                        the chain that held it; urged his horse inside, bent down to refasten it,
                        and as his fingers clutched the iron a man rose in the shadow of  the little lodge and clasped him about the
                        middle. The iron chain swung free and rattled against the post, and the
                        horse snorted with fright, then, at a word from Oscar, was still. There was
                        the barest second of waiting, in which the long arms tightened, and the
                        great body of his assailant hung heavily about him; then he dug spurs into
                        the horse's flanks and the animal leaped forward with a snort of
                        rage, jumped out of the path and tore away through the woods.
                    Oscar's whole strength was taxed to hold his seat as the burly
                        figure thumped against the horse's flanks. He had hoped to shake
                        the man off, but the great arms still clasped him. The situation could not
                        last. Oscar took advantage of the moonlight to choose a spot in which to
                        terminate it. He had his bearings now, and as they crossed an opening in the
                        wood he suddenly loosened his grip on the horse and flung himself backward.
                        His assailant, no longer supported, rolled to the ground with Oscar on top
                        of him, and the freed horse galloped away toward the stable.
                    A rough and tumble fight now followed. Oscar's lithe, vigorous body
                        writhed in the grasp of his antagonist, now free, now clasped by giant arms.
                        They saw each other's faces plainly in the clear moonlight, and at
                             breathless pauses in the struggle their
                        eyes maintained the state of war. At one instant, when both men lay with
                        arms interlocked, half-lying on their thighs, Oscar hissed in the
                        giant's ear:
                    "You are a Servian: it is an ugly race."
                    And the Servian cursed him in a fierce growl.
                    "We expected you; you are a bad hand with the knife,"
                        grunted Oscar, and feeling the bellows-like chest beside him expand, as
                        though in preparation for a renewal of the fight, he suddenly wrenched
                        himself free of the Servian's grasp, leaped away a dozen paces to
                        the shelter of a great pine, and turned, revolver in hand.
                    "Throw up your hands," he yelled.
                    The Servian fired without pausing for aim, the shot ringing out sharply
                        through the wood. Then Oscar discharged his revolver three times in quick
                        succession, and while the discharges were still keen on the air he drew
                        quickly back to a clump of underbrush, and crept away a dozen yards to watch
                        events. The Servian, with his eyes fixed upon the tree behind which his
                        adversary had sought shelter, grew anxious, and thrust his head forward
                        warily.
                    Then he heard a sound as of some one running 
                        through the wood to the left and behind him, but still the man he had
                        grappled on the horse made no sign. It dawned upon him that the three shots
                        fired in front of him had been a signal, and in alarm he turned toward the
                        gate, but a voice near at hand called loudly, "Oscar!" and
                        repeated the name several times.
                    Behind the Servian the little soldier answered sharply in English:
                    "All steady, sir!"
                    The use of a strange tongue added to the Servian's bewilderment, and
                        he fled toward the gate, with Oscar hard after him. Then Armitage suddenly
                        leaped out of the shadows directly in his path and stopped him with a
                        leveled revolver.
                    "Easy work, Oscar! Take the gentleman's gun and be sure to
                        find his knife."
                    The task was to Oscar's taste, and he made quick work of the
                        Servian's pockets.
                    "Your horse was a good despatch bearer. You are all sound,
                        Oscar?"
                    "Never better, sir. A revolver and two knives" the weapons
                        flashed in the moonlight as he held them up.
                    "Good! Now start your friend toward the bungalow."
                    They set off at a quick pace, soon found the rough  driveway, and trudged along silently, the Servian between his
                        captors.
                    When they reached the house Armitage flung open the door and followed Oscar
                        and the prisoner into the long sitting-room.
                    Armitage lighted a pipe at the mantel, readjusted the bandage on his arm, and
                        laughed aloud as he looked upon the huge figure of the Servian standing
                        beside the sober little cavalryman.
                    "Oscar, there are certainly giants in these days, and we have caught
                        one. You will please see that the cylinder of your revolver is in good order
                        and prepare to act as clerk of our court-martial. If the prisoner moves,
                        shoot him."
                    He spoke these last words very deliberately in German, and the
                        Servian's small eyes blinked his comprehension. Armitage sat down
                        on the writing-table, with his own revolver and the prisoner's
                        knives and pistol within reach of his available hand. A smile of amusement
                        played over his face as he scrutinized the big body and its small,
                        bullet-like head.
                    "He is a large devil," commented Oscar.
                    "He is large, certainly," remarked Armitage. "Give
                        him a chair. Now," he said to the man in deliberate  German, "I shall say a few things to
                        you which I am very anxious for you to understand. You are a
                        Servian."
                    The man nodded.
                    "Your name is Zmai Miletich."
                    The man shifted his great bulk uneasily in his chair and fastened his
                        lusterless little eyes upon Armitage.
                    "Your name," repeated Armitage, "is Zmai Miletich;
                        your home is, or was, in the village of Toplica, where you were a blacksmith
                        until you became a thief. You are employed as an assassin by two gentlemen
                        known as Chauvenet and Duranddo you follow me?"
                    The man was indeed following him with deep engrossment. His narrow forehead
                        was drawn into minute wrinkles; his small eyes seemed to recede into his
                        head; his great body turned uneasily.
                    "I ask you again," repeated Armitage, "whether you
                        follow me. There must be no mistake."
                    Oscar, anxious to take his own part in the conversation, prodded Zmai in the
                        ribs with a pistol barrel, and the big fellow growled and nodded his
                        head.
                    "There is a house in the outskirts of Vienna where you have been
                        employed at times as gardener, and another house in Geneva where you wait
                        for orders. At this  latter place it was my
                        great pleasure to smash you in the head with a boiling-pot on a certain
                        evening in March."
                    The man scowled and ejaculated an oath with so much venom that Armitage
                        laughed.
                    "Your conspirators are engaged upon a succession of murders, and
                        when they have removed the last obstacle they will establish a new
                        Emperor-king in Vienna and you will receive a substantial reward for what
                        you have done"
                    The blood suffused the man's dark face, and he half rose, a great
                        roar of angry denial breaking from him.
                    "That will do. You tried to kill me on the King
                            Edward; you tried your knife on me again down there in Judge
                        Claiborne's garden; and you came up here tonight with a plan to
                        kill my man and then take your time to me. Give me the mail,
                        Oscar."
                    He opened the letters which Oscar had brought and scanned several that bore a
                        Paris postmark, and when he had pondered their contents a moment he laughed
                        and jumped from the table. He brought a portfolio from his bedroom and sat
                        down to write.
                    "Don't shoot the gentleman as long as he is quiet. You may
                        even give him a glass of whisky to soothe his feelings."
                    
                    Armitage wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    "MONSIEUR:
                                    "Your assassin is a clumsy fellow and you will do
                                        well to send him back to the blacksmith shop at Toplica. I
                                        learn that Monsieur Durand, distressed by the delay in
                                        affairs in America, will soon join youis even now aboard the
                                            Tacoma, bound for New York. I am
                                        profoundly grateful for this, dear Monsieur, as it gives me
                                        an opportunity to conclude our interesting business in
                                        republican territory without prejudice to any of the parties
                                        chiefly concerned.
                                    "You are a clever and daring rogue, yet at times you
                                        strike me as immensely dull, Monsieur. Ponder this: should
                                        it seem expedient for me to establish my identitywhich I am
                                        sure interests you greatlybefore Baron von Marhof, and, we
                                        will add, the American Secretary of State, be quite sure
                                        that I shall not do so until I have taken precautions
                                        against your departure in any unseemly haste. I, myself,
                                        dear friend, am not without a certain facility in setting
                                        traps."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Armitage threw down the pen and read what he had written with care. Then he
                        wrote as signature the initials F. A., inclosed the note in an envelope and
                        addressed it, pondered again, laughed and slapped his knee and went into his
                        room, where he rummaged about  until he found
                        a small seal beautifully wrought in bronze and a bit of wax. Returning to
                        the table he lighted a candle, and deftly sealed the letter. He held the red
                        scar on the back of the envelope to the lamp and examined it with interest.
                        The lines of the seal were deep cut, and the impression was perfectly
                        distinct, of F. A. in English script, linked together by the bar of the
                        F.
                    "Oscar, what do you recommend that we do with the
                        prisoner?"
                    "He should be tied to a tree and shot; or, perhaps, it would be
                        better to hang him to the rafters in the kitchen. Yet he is heavy and might
                        pull down the roof."
                    "You are a bloodthirsty wretch, and there is no mercy in you.
                        Private executions are not allowed in this country; you would have us before
                        a Virginia grand jury and our own necks stretched. No; we shall send him
                        back to his master."
                    "It is a mistake. If your Excellency would go away for an hour he
                        should never know where the buzzards found this large carcass."
                    "Tush! I would not trust his valuable life to you. Get up!"
                        he commanded, and Oscar jerked Zmai to his feet.
                    "You deserve nothing at my hands, but I need a discreet  messenger, and you shall not die to-night, as
                        my worthy adjutant recommends. To-morrow night, however, or the following
                        nightor any other old night, as we say in Americaif you show yourself in
                        these hills, my chief of staff shall have his way with youbuzzard
                        meat!"
                    "The orders are understood," said Oscar, thrusting the
                        revolver into the giant's ribs.
                    "Now, Zmai, blacksmith of Toplica, and assassin at large, here is a
                        letter for Monsieur Chauvenet. It is still early. When you have delivered
                        it, bring me back the envelope with Monsieur's receipt written
                        right here, under the seal. Do you understand?"
                    It had begun to dawn upon Zmai that his life was not in immediate danger, and
                        the light of intelligence kindled again in his strange little eyes. Lest he
                        might not fully grasp the errand with which Armitage intrusted him, Oscar
                        repeated what Armitage had said in somewhat coarser terms.
                    Again through the moonlight strode the threeout of Armitage's land
                        to the valley road and to the same point to which Shirley Claiborne had only
                        a few days before been escorted by the mountaineer.
                    There they sent the Servian forward to the Springs,  and Armitage went home, leaving Oscar to wait for the return
                        of the receipt.
                    It was after midnight when Oscar placed it in Armitage's hands at
                        the bungalow.
                    "Oscar, it would be a dreadful thing to kill a man,"
                        Armitage declared, holding the empty envelope to the light and reading the
                        line scrawled beneath the unbroken wax. It was in French:
                    "You are young to die, Monsieur."
                    "A man more or less!" and Oscar shrugged his shoulders.
                    "You are not a good churchman. It is a grievous sin to do
                        murder."
                    "One may repent; it is so written. The people of your house are
                        Catholics also."
                    "That is quite true, though I may seem to forget it. Our work will
                        be done soon, please God, and we shall ask the blessed sacrament somewhere
                        in these hills."
                    Oscar crossed himself and fell to cleaning his rifle.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    CAPTAIN CLAIBORNE ON DUTY
                    
                        
                            When he came where the trees were thin,
                            The moon sat waiting there to see;
                            On her worn palm she laid her chin,
                            And laughed awhile in sober glee
                            To think how strong this knight had been.
                            
                                William Vaughn Moody.
                            
                        
                    
                    In some mystification Captain Richard Claiborne packed a suit-case in his
                        quarters at Fort Myer. Being a soldier, he obeyed orders; but being human,
                        he was also possessed of a degree of curiosity. He did not know just the
                        series of incidents and conferences that preceded his summons to Washington,
                        but they may be summarized thus:
                    Baron von Marhof was a cautious man. When the young gentlemen of his legation
                        spoke to him in awed whispers of a cigarette case bearing an extraordinary
                        device that had been seen in Washington he laughed them away; then,
                        possessing a curious and thorough mind, he read all the press clippings
                        relating to the  false Baron von Kissel, and
                        studied the heraldic emblems of the Schomburgs. As he pondered, he regretted
                        the death of his eminent brother-in-law, Count Ferdinand von Stroebel, who
                        was not a man to stumble over so negligible a trifle as a cigarette case.
                        But Von Marhof himself was not without resources. He told the gentlemen of
                        his suite that he had satisfied himself that there was nothing in the
                        Armitage mystery; then he cabled Vienna discreetly for a few days, and
                        finally consulted Hilton Claiborne, the embassy's counsel, at the
                        Claiborne home at Storm Springs.
                    They had both gone hurriedly to Washington, where they held a long conference
                        with the Secretary of State. Then the state department called the war
                        department by telephone, and quickly down the line to the commanding officer
                        at Fort Myer went a special assignment for Captain Claiborne to report to
                        the Secretary of State. A great deal of perfectly sound red tape was reduced
                        to minute particles in these manipulations; but Baron von Marhof's
                        business was urgent; it was also of a private and wholly confidential
                        character. Therefore, he returned to his cottage at Storm Springs, and the
                        Washington papers stated that he was ill and had gone back to Virginia to
                        take the waters.
                    
                    The Claiborne house was the pleasantest place in Storm Valley, and the
                        library a comfortable place for a conference. Dick Claiborne caught the
                        gravity of the older men as they unfolded to him the task for which they had
                        asked his services. The Baron stated the case in these words:
                    "You know and have talked with this man Armitage; you saw the device
                        on the cigarette case; and asked an explanation, which he refused; and you
                        know also Chauvenet, whom we suspect of complicity with the conspirators at
                        home. Armitage is not the false Baron von Kisselwe have established that
                        from Senator Sanderson beyond question. But Sanderson's knowledge
                        of the man is of comparatively recent dategoing back about five years to the
                        time Armitage purchased his Montana ranch. Whoever Armitage may be, he pays
                        his bills; he conducts himself like a gentleman; he travels at will, and
                        people who meet him say a good word for him."
                    "He is an agreeable man and remarkably well posted in European
                        politics," said Judge Claiborne. "I talked with him a
                        number of times on the King Edward and must say that I
                        liked him."
                    "Chauvenet evidently knows him; there was undoubtedly  something back of that little trick at my
                        supper party at the Army and Navy," said Dick.
                    "It might be explained" began the Baron; then he paused and
                        looked from father to son. "Pardon me, but they both manifest some
                        interest in Miss Claiborne."
                    "We met them abroad," said Dick; "and they both
                        turned up again in Washington."
                    "One of them is here, or has been here in the valley why not the
                        other?" asked Judge Claiborne.
                    "But, of course, Shirley knows nothing of Armitage's
                        whereabouts," Dick protested.
                    "Certainly not," declared his father.
                    "How did you make Armitage's acquaintance?" asked
                        the Ambassador. "Some one must have been responsible for
                        introducing himif you can remember."
                    Dick laughed.
                    "It was in the Monte Rosa, at Geneva. Shirley and I had been
                        chaffing each other about the persistence with which Armitage seemed to
                        follow us. He was taking dejeuner at the same hour, and he
                        passed us going out. Old Arthur Singletonthe ubiquitouswas talking to us,
                        and he nailed Armitage with his customary zeal and introduced him to us in
                        quite the usual American fashion. Later I asked Singleton who he was and he
                        knew  nothing about him. Then Armitage turned
                        up on the steamer, where he made himself most agreeable. Next, Senator
                        Sanderson vouched for him as one of his Montana constituents. You know the
                        rest of the story. I swallowed him whole; he called at our house on several
                        occasions, and came to the post, and I asked him to my supper for the
                        Spanish attache."
                    "And now, Dick, we want you to find him and get him into a room with
                        ourselves, where we can ask him some questions," declared Judge
                        Claiborne.
                    They discussed the matter in detail. It was agreed that Dick should remain at
                        the Springs for a few days to watch Chauvenet; then, if he got no clue to
                        Armitage's whereabouts, he was to go to Montana, to see if anything
                        could be learned there.
                    "We must find himthere must be no mistake about it," said
                        the Ambassador to Judge Claiborne, when they were alone. "They are
                        almost panic-stricken in Vienna. What with the match burning close to the
                        powder in Hungary and clever heads plotting in Vienna this American end of
                        the game has dangerous possibilities."
                    "And when we have young Armitage" the Judge began.
                    "Then we shall know the truth."
                    
                    "But supposesuppose," and Judge Claiborne glanced at the
                        door, "suppose Charles Louis, Emperor-king of Austria-Hungary,
                        should dieto-nightto-morrow"
                    "We will assume nothing of the kind!" ejaculated the
                        Ambassador sharply. "It is impossible." Then to Captain
                        Claiborne: "You must pardon me if I do not explain further. I wish
                        to find Armitage; it is of the greatest importance. It would not aid you if
                        I told you why I must see and talk with him."
                    And as though to escape from the thing of which his counsel had hinted, Baron
                        von Marhof took his departure at once.
                    Shirley met her brother on the veranda. His arrival had been unheralded and
                        she was frankly astonished to see him.
                    "Well, Captain Claiborne, you are a man of mystery. You will
                        undoubtedly be court-martialed for deserting and after a long leave,
                        too."
                    "I am on duty. Don't forget that you are the daughter of a
                        diplomat."
                    "Humph! It doesn't follow, necessarily, that I should be
                        stupid!"
                    "You couldn't be that, Shirley, dear."
                    
                    "Thank you, Captain."
                    They discussed family matters for a few minutes; then she said, with
                        elaborate irrelevance:
                    "Well, we must hope that your appearance will cause no battles to be
                        fought in our garden. There was enough fighting about here in old
                        times."
                    "Take heart, little sister, I shall protect you. Oh, it's
                        rather decent of Armitage to have kept away from you, Shirley, after all
                        that fuss about the bogus baron."
                    "Which he wasn't"
                    "Well, Sanderson says he couldn't have been, and the
                        rogues' gallery pictures don't resemble our friend at
                        all."
                    "Ugh; don't speak of it!" and Shirley shrugged her
                        shoulders. She suffered her eyes to climb the slopes of the far hills. Then
                        she looked steadily at her brother and laughed.
                    "What do you and father and Baron von Marhof want with Mr. John
                        Armitage?" she asked.
                    "Guess again!" exclaimed Dick hurriedly. "Has that
                        been the undercurrent of your conversation? As I may have said before in
                        this connection, you disappoint me, Shirley. You seem unable to forget that
                        fellow."
                    He paused, grew very serious, and bent forward in his wicker chair.
                    
                    "Have you seen John Armitage since I saw him?"
                    "Impertinent! How dare you?"
                    "But Shirley, the question is fair!"
                    "Is it, Richard?"
                    "And I want you to answer me."
                    "That's different."
                    He rose and took several steps toward her. She stood against the railing with
                        her hands behind her back.
                    "Shirley, you are the finest girl in the world, but you
                        wouldn't do this"
                    "This what, Dick?"
                    "You know what I mean. I ask you againhave you or have you not seen
                        Armitage since you came to the Springs?"
                    He spoke impatiently, his eyes upon hers. A wave of color swept her face, and
                        then her anger passed and she was her usual good-natured self.
                    "Baron von Marhof is a charming old gentleman, isn't
                        he?"
                    "He's a regular old brick," declared Dick
                        solemnly.
                    "It's a great privilege for a young man like you to know
                        him, Dick, and to have private talks with him and the governorabout subjects
                        of deep importance. The governor is a good deal of a man
                        himself."
                    
                    "I am proud to be his son," declared Dick, meeting
                        Shirley's eyes unflinchingly.
                    Shirley was silent for a moment, while Dick whistled a few bars from the
                        latest waltz.
                    "A captaina mere captain of the lineis not often plucked out of his
                        post when in good health and standingafter a long leave for foreign
                        traveland sent away to visit his parentsand help entertain a distinguished
                        Ambassador."
                    "Thanks for the 'mere captain,' dearest. You
                        needn't rub it in."
                    "I wouldn't. But you are fair gamefor your sister only! And
                        you're better known than you were before that little supper for the
                        Spanish attache. It rather directed attention to you, didn't it,
                        Dick?"
                    Dick colored.
                    "It certainly did."
                    "And if you should meet Monsieur Chauvenet, who caused the
                        trouble"
                    "I have every intention of meeting him!"
                    "Oh!"
                    "Of course, I shall meet himsome time, somewhere. He's at
                        the Springs, isn't he?"
                    
                    "Am I a hotel register that I should know? I haven't seen
                        him for several days."
                    "What I should like to see," said Dick, "is a
                        meeting between Armitage and Chauvenet. That would really be entertaining.
                        No doubt Chauvenet could whip your mysterious suitor."
                    He looked away, with an air of unconcern, at the deepening shadows on the
                        mountains.
                    "Dear Dick, I am quite sure that if you have been chosen out of all
                        the United States army to find Mr. John Armitage, you will succeed without
                        any help from me."
                    "That doesn't answer my question. You don't know
                        what you are doing. What if father knew that you were seeing this
                        adventurer"
                    "Oh, of course, if you should tell father! I haven't said
                        that I had seen Mr. Armitage; and you haven't exactly told me that
                        you have a warrant for his arrest; so we are quits, Captain. You had better
                        look in at the hotel dance to-night. There are girls there and to
                        spare."
                    "When I find Mr. Armitage"
                    "You seem hopeful, Captain. He may be on the high
                        seas."
                    "I shall find him thereor here!"
                    
                    "Good luck to you, Captain!"
                    There was the least flash of antagonism in the glance that passed between
                        them, and Captain Claiborne clapped his hands together impatiently and went
                        into the house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE FIRST RIDE TOGETHER
                    
                        
                            My mistress bent that brow of hers;
                            Those deep dark eyes where pride demurs
                            When pity would be softening through,
                            Fixed me a breathing-while or two
                            With life or death in the balance: right!
                            The blood replenished me again;
                            My last thought was at least not vain:
                            I and my mistress, side by side
                            Shall be together, breathe and ride,
                            So, one day more am I deified.
                            Who knows but the world may end to-night?
                            
                                R. Browning.
                            
                        
                    
                    "We shall be leaving soon," said Armitage, half to himself
                        and partly to Oscar. "It is not safe to wait much
                        longer."
                    He tossed a copy of the Neue Freie Presse on the table.
                        Oscar had been down to the Springs to explore, and brought back news, gained
                        from the stablemen at the hotel, that Chauvenet had left the hotel,
                        presumably for Washington. It was now Wednesday in the third week in
                        April.
                    
                    "Oscar, you were a clever boy and knew more than you were told. You
                        have asked me no questions. There may be an ugly row before I get out of
                        these hills. I should not think hard of you if you preferred to
                        leave."
                    "I enlisted for the campaignyes?I shall wait until I am
                        discharged." And the little man buttoned his coat.
                    "Thank you, Oscar. In a few days more we shall probably be through
                        with this business. There's another man coming to get into the
                        gamehe reached Washington yesterday, and we shall doubtless hear of him
                        shortly. Very likely they are both in the hills tonight. And, Oscar, listen
                        carefully to what I say."
                    The soldier drew nearer to Armitage, who sat swinging his legs on the table
                        in the bungalow.
                    "If I should die unshriven during the next week, here's a
                        key that opens a safety-vault box at the Bronx Loan and Trust Company, in
                        New York. In case I am disabled, go at once with the key to Baron von
                        Marhof, Ambassador of Austria-Hungary, and tell him tell him"
                    He had paused for a moment as though pondering his words with care; then he
                        laughed and went on.
                    
                    "tell him, Oscar, that there's a message in that safety box
                        from a gentleman who might have been King."
                    Oscar stared at Armitage blankly.
                    "That is the truth, Sergeant. The message once in the good
                        Baron's hands will undoubtedly give him a severe shock. You will do
                        well to go to bed. I shall take a walk before I turn in."
                    "You should not go out alone"
                    "Don't trouble about me; I shan't go far. I think
                        we are safe until two gentlemen have met in Washington, discussed their
                        affairs, and come down into the mountains again. The large brute we caught
                        the other night is undoubtedly on watch near by; but he is harmless. Only a
                        few days more and we shall perform a real service in the world, Sergeant,I
                        feel it in my bones."
                    He took his hat from a bench by the door and went out upon the veranda. The
                        moon had already slipped down behind the mountains, but the stars trooped
                        brightly across the heavens. He drank deep breaths of the cool air of the
                        mountain night, and felt the dark wooing him with its calm and peace. He
                        returned for his cloak and walked into the wood. He followed the road to the
                        gate, and then turned toward the Port of 
                        Missing Men. He had formed quite definite plans of what he should do in
                        certain emergencies, and he felt a new strength in his confidence that he
                        should succeed in the business that had brought him into the hills.
                    At the abandoned bridge he threw himself down and gazed off through a narrow
                        cut that afforded a glimpse of the Springs, where the electric lights
                        gleamed as one lamp. Shirley Claiborne was there in the valley and he smiled
                        with the thought of her; for soonperhaps in a few hourshe would be free to
                        go to her, his work done; and no mystery or dangerous task would henceforth
                        lie between them.
                    He saw march before him across the night great hosts of armed men, singing
                        hymns of war; and again he looked upon cities besieged; still again upon
                        armies in long alignment waiting for the word that would bring the final
                        shock of battle. The faint roar of water far below added an under-note of
                        reality to his dream; and still he saw, as upon a tapestry held in his hand,
                        the struggles of kingdoms, the rise and fall of empires. Upon the wide seas
                        smoke floated from the guns of giant ships that strove mightily in battle.
                        He was thrilled by drum-beats and the cry of trumpets. Then his mood changed
                        and the mountains and calm stars  spoke an
                        heroic language that was of newer and nobler things; and he shook his head
                        impatiently and gathered his cloak about him and rose.
                    "God said, 'I am tired of kings,'" he
                        muttered. "But I shall keep my pledge; I shall do Austria a
                        service," he said; and then laughed a little to himself.
                        "To think that it may be for me to say!" And with this he
                        walked quite to the brink of the chasm and laid his hand upon the iron cable
                        from which swung the bridge.
                    "I shall soon be free," he said with a deep sigh; and
                        looked across the starlighted hills.
                    Then the cable under his hand vibrated slightly; at first he thought it the
                        night wind stealing through the vale and swaying the bridge above the sheer
                        depth. But still he felt the tingle of the iron rope in his clasp, and his
                        hold tightened and he bent forward to listen. The whole bridge now audibly
                        shook with the pulsation of a stepa soft, furtive step, as of one cautiously
                        groping a way over the unsubstantial flooring. Then through the starlight he
                        distinguished a woman's figure, and drew back. A loose plank in the
                        bridge floor rattled, and as she passed it freed itself and he heard it
                        strike the rocks faintly far below; but the figure stole swiftly on, and he
                        bent forward with a cry of warning on his 
                        lips, and snatched away the light barricade that had been nailed across the
                        opening.
                    When he looked up, his words of rebuke, that had waited only for the
                        woman's security, died on his lips.
                    "Shirley!" he cried; and put forth both hands and lifted
                        her to firm ground.
                    A little sigh of relief broke from her. The bridge still swayed from her
                        weight; and the cables hummed like the wires of a harp; near at hand the
                        waterfall tumbled down through the mystical starlight.
                    "I did not know that dreams really came true," he said,
                        with an awe in his voice that the passing fear had left behind.
                    She began abruptly, not heeding his words.
                    "You must go awayat onceI came to tell you that you can not stay
                        here."
                    "But it is unfair to accept any warning from you! You are too
                        generous, too kind,"he began.
                    "It is not generosity or kindness, but this danger that follows
                        youit is an evil thing and it must not find you here. It is impossible that
                        such a thing can be in America. But you must goyou must seek the
                        law's aid"
                    "How do you know I dare"
                    "I don't knowthat you dare!"
                    
                    "I know that you have a great heart and that I love you,"
                        he said.
                    She turned quickly toward the bridge as though to retrace her steps.
                    "I can't be paid for a slight, a very slight service by
                        fair words, Mr. Armitage. If you knew why I came"
                    "If I dared think or believe or hope"
                    "You will dare nothing of the kind, Mr. Armitage!" she
                        replied; "but I will tell you, that I came out of ordinary
                        Christian humanity. The idea of friends, of even slight acquaintances, being
                        assassinated in these Virginia hills does not please me."
                    "How do you classify me, pleasewith friends or
                        acquaintances?"
                    He laughed; then the gravity of what she was doing changed his tone.
                    "I am John Armitage. That is all you know, and yet you hazard your
                        life to warn me that I am in danger?"
                    "If you called yourself John Smith I should do exactly the same
                        thing. It makes not the slightest difference to me who or what you
                        are."
                    "You are explicit!" he laughed. "I don't
                        hesitate to tell you that I value your life much higher than you
                        do."
                    
                    "That is quite unnecessary. It may amuse you to know that, as I am a
                        person of little curiosity, I am not the least concerned in the solution
                        ofofwhat might be called the Armitage riddle."
                    "Oh; I'm a riddle, am I?"
                    "Not to me, I assure you! You are only the object of some
                        one's enmity, and there's something about murder that
                        isthat isn't exactly nice! It's positively
                        un-esthetic."
                    She had begun seriously, but laughed at the absurdity of her last words.
                    "You are amazingly impersonal. You would save a man's life
                        without caring in the least what manner of man he may be."
                    "You put it rather flatly, but that's about the truth of
                        the matter. Do you know, I am almost afraid"
                    "Not of me, I hope"
                    "Certainly not. But it has occurred to me that you may have the
                        conceit of your own mystery, that you may take rather too much pleasure in
                        mystifying people as to your identity."
                    "That is unkind,that is unkind," and he spoke without
                        resentment, but softly, with a falling cadence.  He suddenly threw down the hat he had held in his hand, and extended his
                        arms toward her.
                    "You are not unkind or unjust. You have a right to know who I am and
                        what I am doing here. It seems an impertinence to thrust my affairs upon
                        you; but if you will listen I should like to tell youit will take but a
                        momentwhy and what"
                    "Please do not! As I told you, I have no curiosity in the matter. I
                        can't allow you to tell me; I really don't want to
                        know!"
                    "I am willing that every one should knowto-morrowor the day afternot
                        later."
                    She lifted her head, as though with the earnestness of some new thought.
                    "The day after may be too late. Whatever it is that you have
                        done"
                    "I have done nothing to be ashamed of,I swear I have
                        not!"
                    "Whatever it is,and I don't care what it is,"she
                        said deliberately, "it is something quite serious, Mr. Armitage. My
                        brother"
                    She hesitated for a moment, then spoke rapidly.
                    "My brother has been detailed to help in the search for you. He is
                        at Storm Springs now."
                    
                    "But he doesn't understand"
                    "My brother is a soldier and it is not necessary for him to
                        understand."
                    "And you have done thisyou have come to warn me"
                    "It does look pretty bad," she said, changing her tone and
                        laughing a little. "But my brother and Iwe always had very
                        different ideas about you, Mr. Armitage. We hold briefs for different sides
                        of the case."
                    "Oh, I'm a case, am I?" and he caught gladly at
                        the suggestion of lightness in her tone. "But I'd really
                        like to know what he has to do with my affairs."
                    "Then you will have to ask him."
                    "To be sure. But the government can hardly have assigned Captain
                        Claiborne to special duty at Monsieur Chauvenet's request. I swear
                        to you that I'm as much in the dark as you are."
                    "I'm quite sure an officer of the line would not be taken
                        from his duties and sent into the country on any frivolous errand. But
                        perhaps an Ambassador from a great power made the request,perhaps, for
                        example, it was Baron von Marhof."
                    "Good Lord!"
                    Armitage laughed aloud.
                    
                    "I beg your pardon! I really beg your pardon! But is the Ambassador
                        looking for me?"
                    "I don't know, Mr. Armitage. You forget that I'm
                        only a traitor and not a spy."
                    "You are the noblest woman in the world," he said boldly,
                        and his heart leaped in him and he spoke on with a fierce haste.
                        "You have made sacrifices for me that no woman ever made before for
                        a manfor a man she did not know! And my lifewhatever it is worth, every hour
                        and second of it, I lay down before you, and it is yours to keep or throw
                        away. I followed you half-way round the world and I shall follow you again
                        and as long as I live. And to-morrowor the day afterI shall justify these
                        great kindnessesthis generous confidence; but to-night I have a work to
                        do!"
                    As they stood on the verge of the defile, by the bridge that swung out from
                        the cliff like a fairy structure, they heard far and faint the whistle and
                        low rumble of the night train south-bound from Washington; and to both of
                        them the sound urged the very real and practical world from which for a
                        little time they had stolen away.
                    "I must go back," said Shirley, and turned to the bridge
                        and put her hand on its slight iron frame; but he seized her wrists and held
                        them tight.
                    
                    "You have risked much for me, but you shall not risk your life again
                        in my cause. You can not venture across that bridge again."
                    She yielded without further parley and he dropped her wrists at once.
                    "Please say no more. You must not make me sorry I came. I must go,I
                        should have gone back instantly."
                    "But not across that spider's web. You must go by the long
                        road. I will give you a horse and ride with you into the
                        valley."
                    "It is much nearer by the bridge,and I have my horse over
                        there."
                    "We shall get the horse without trouble," he said, and she
                        walked beside him through the starlighted wood. As they crossed the open
                        tract she said:
                    "This is the Port of Missing Men."
                    "Yes, here the lost legion made its last stand. There lie the graves
                        of some of them. It's a pretty story; I hope some day to know more
                        of it from some such authority as yourself."
                    "I used to ride here on my pony when I was a little girl, and dream
                        about the gray soldiers who would not surrender. It was as beautiful as an
                        old ballad. I'll  wait here. Fetch
                        the horse," she said, "and hurry, please."
                    "If there are explanations to make," he began, looking at
                        her gravely.
                    "I am not a person who makes explanations, Mr. Armitage. You may
                        meet me at the gate."
                    As he ran toward the house he met Oscar, who had become alarmed at his
                        absence and was setting forth in search of him.
                    "Come; saddle both the horses, Oscar," Armitage
                        commanded.
                    They went together to the barn and quickly brought out the horses.
                    "You are not to come with me, Oscar."
                    "A captain does not go alone; it should be the sergeant who is
                        sentyes?"
                    "It is not an affair of war, Oscar, but quite another matter. There
                        is a saddled horse hitched to the other side of our abandoned bridge. Get it
                        and ride it to Judge Claiborne's stables; and ask and answer no
                        questions."
                    A moment later he was riding toward the gate, the led-horse following.
                    He flung himself down, adjusting the stirrups and  gave her a hand into the saddle. They turned silently into the
                        mountain road.
                    "The bridge would have been simpler and quicker," said
                        Shirley; "as it is, I shall be late to the ball."
                    "I am contrite enough; but you don't make
                        explanations."
                    "No; I don't explain; and you are to come back as soon as
                        we strike the valley. I always send gentlemen back at that point,"
                        she laughed, and went ahead of him into the narrow road. She guided the
                        strange horse with the ease of long practice, skilfully testing his paces,
                        and when they came to a stretch of smooth road sent him flying at a gallop
                        over the trail. He had given her his own horse, a hunter of famous strain,
                        and she at once defined and maintained a distance between them that made
                        talk impossible.
                    Her short covert riding-coat, buttoned close, marked clearly in the starlight
                        her erect figure; light wisps of loosened hair broke free under her soft
                        felt hat, and when she turned her head the wind caught the brim and pressed
                        it back from her face, giving a new charm to her profile.
                    He called after her once or twice at the start, but she did not pause or
                        reply; and he could not know what  mood
                        possessed her; or that once in flight, in the security the horse gave her,
                        she was for the first time afraid of him. He had declared his love for her,
                        and had offered to break down the veil of mystery that made him a strange
                        and perplexing figure. His affairs, whatever their nature, were now at a
                        crisis, he had said; quite possibly she should never see him again after
                        this ride. As she waited at the gate she had known a moment of contrition
                        and doubt as to what she had done. It was not fair to her brother thus to
                        give away his secret to the enemy; but as the horse flew down the rough road
                        her blood leaped with the sense of adventure, and her pulse sang with the
                        joy of flight. Her thoughts were free, wild things; and she exulted in the
                        great starry vault and the cool heights over which she rode. Who was John
                        Armitage? She did not know or care, now that she had performed for him her
                        last service. Quite likely he would fade away on the morrow like a mountain
                        shadow before the sun; and the song in her heart to-night was not love or
                        anything akin to it, but only the joy of living.
                    Where the road grew difficult as it dipped sharply down into the valley she
                        suffered him perforce to ride beside her.
                    "You ride wonderfully," he said.
                    
                    "The horse is a joy. He's a PendragonI know them in the
                        dark. He must have come from this valley somewhere. We own some of his
                        cousins, I'm sure."
                    "You are quite right. He's a Virginia horse. You are
                        incomparableno other woman alive could have kept that pace. It's a
                        brave woman who isn't a slave to her hair-pinsI don't
                        believe you spilled one."
                    She drew rein at the cross-roads.
                    "We part here. How shall I return Bucephalus?"
                    "Let me go to your own gate, please!"
                    "Not at all!" she said with decision.
                    "Then Oscar will pick him up. If you don't see him, turn
                        the horse loose. But my thanksfor oh, so many things!" he
                        pleaded.
                    "To-morrowor the day afteror never!"
                    She laughed and put out her hand; and when he tried to detain her she spoke
                        to the horse and flashed away toward home. He listened, marking her flight
                        until the shadows of the valley stole sound and sight from him; then he
                        turned back into the hills.
                    Near her father's estate Shirley came upon a man who saluted in the
                        manner of a soldier.
                    It was Oscar, who had crossed the bridge and ridden down by the nearer
                        road.
                    
                    "It is my captain's horseyes?" he said, as the
                        slim, graceful animal whinnied and pawed the ground. "I found a
                        horse at the broken bridge and took it to your stableyes?"
                    A moment later Shirley walked rapidly through the garden to the veranda of
                        her father's house, where her brother Dick paced back and forth
                        impatiently.
                    "Where have you been, Shirley?"
                    "Walking."
                    "But you went for a ridethe stable-men told me."
                    "I believe that is true, Captain."
                    "And your horse was brought home half an hour ago by a strange
                        fellow who saluted like a soldier when I spoke to him, but refused to
                        understand my English."
                    "Well, they do say English isn't very well taught at West
                        Point, Captain," she replied, pulling off her gloves. "You
                        oughtn't to blame the polite stranger for his
                        courtesy."
                    "I believe you have been up to some mischief, Shirley. If you are
                        seeing that man Armitage"
                    "Captain!"
                    "Bah! What are you going to do now?"
                    "I'm going to the ball with you as soon as I can  change my gown. I suppose father and mother
                        have gone."
                    "They havefor which you should be grateful!"
                    Captain Claiborne lighted a cigar and waited.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    THE COMEDY OF A SHEEPFOLD
                    
                        
                            A glance, a wordand joy or pain
                            Befalls; what was no more shall be.
                            How slight the links are in the chain
                            That binds us to our destiny!
                            
                                T. B. Aldrich.
                            
                        
                    
                    Oscar's eye, roaming the landscape as he left Shirley Claiborne and
                        started for the bungalow, swept the upland Claiborne acres and rested upon a
                        moving shadow. He drew rein under a clump of wild cherry-trees at the
                        roadside and waited. Several hundred yards away lay the Claiborne sheepfold,
                        with a broad pasture rising beyond. A shadow is not a thing to be ignored by
                        a man trained in the niceties of scouting. Oscar, satisfying himself that
                        substance lay behind the shadow, dismounted and tied his horse. Then he bent
                        low over the stone wall and watched.
                    "It is the big fellowyes? He is a stealer of sheep, as I might have
                        known."
                    
                    Zmai was only a dim figure against the dark meadow, which he was slowly
                        crossing from the side farthest from the Claiborne house. He stopped several
                        times as though uncertain of his whereabouts, and then clambered over a
                        stone wall that formed one side of the sheepfold, passed it and strode on
                        toward Oscar and the road.
                    "It is mischief that brings him from the hills yes?" Oscar
                        reflected, glancing up and down the highway. Faintlyvery softly through the
                        night he heard the orchestra at the hotel, playing for the dance. The little
                        soldier unbuttoned his coat, drew the revolver from his belt, and thrust it
                        into his coat pocket. Zmai was drawing nearer, advancing rapidly, now that
                        he had gained his bearings. At the wall Oscar rose suddenly and greeted him
                        in mockingly-courteous tones:
                    "Good evening, my friend; it's a fine evening for a
                        walk."
                    Zmai drew back and growled.
                    "Let me pass," he said in his difficult German.
                    "It is a long wall; there should be no difficulty in passing. This
                        country is much freer than Servia yes?" and Oscar's tone
                        was pleasantly conversational.
                    Zmai put his hand on the wall and prepared to vault.
                    
                    "A moment only, comrade. You seem to be in a hurry; it must be a
                        business that brings you from the mountainsyes?"
                    "I have no time for you," snarled the Servian. "Be
                        gone!" and he shook himself impatiently and again put his hand on
                        the wall.
                    "One should not be in too much haste, comrade;" and Oscar
                        thrust Zmai back with his finger-tips.
                    The man yielded and ran a few steps out of the clump of trees and sought to
                        escape there. It was clear to Oscar that Zmai was not anxious to penetrate
                        closer to the Claiborne house, whose garden extended quite near. He met Zmai
                        promptly and again thrust him back.
                    "It is a messageyes?" asked Oscar.
                    "It is my affair," blurted the big fellow. "I mean
                        no harm to you."
                    "It was you that tried the knife on my body. It is much quieter than
                        shooting. You have the knife yes?"
                    The little soldier whipped out his revolver.
                    "In which pocket is the business carried? A letter undoubtedly. They
                        do not trust swine to carry words Ah!"
                    Oscar dropped below the wall as Zmai struck at him;  when he looked up a moment later the Servian was running back
                        over the meadow toward the sheepfold. Oscar, angry at the ease with which
                        the Servian had evaded him, leaped the wall and set off after the big
                        fellow. He was quite sure that the man bore a written message, and equally
                        sure that it must be of importance to his employer. He clutched his revolver
                        tight, brought up his elbows for greater ease in running, and sped after
                        Zmai, now a blur on the starlighted sheep pasture.
                    The slope was gradual and a pretty feature of the landscape by day; but it
                        afforded a toilsome path for runners. Zmai already realized that he had
                        blundered in not forcing the wall; he was running uphill, with a group of
                        sheds, another wall, and a still steeper and rougher field beyond. His bulk
                        told against him; and behind him he heard the quick thump of
                        Oscar's feet on the turf. The starlight grew dimmer through tracts
                        of white scud; the surface of the pasture was rougher to the feet than it
                        appeared to the eye. A hound in the Claiborne stable-yard bayed suddenly and
                        the sound echoed from the surrounding houses and drifted off toward the
                        sheepfold. Then a noble music rose from the kennels.
                    
                    Captain Claiborne, waiting for his sister on the veranda, looked toward the
                        stables, listening.
                    Zmai approached the sheep-sheds rapidly, with still a hundred yards to
                        traverse beyond them before he should reach the pasture wall. His rage at
                        thus being driven by a small man for whom he had great contempt did not help
                        his wind or stimulate the flight of his heavy legs, and he saw now that he
                        would lessen the narrowing margin between himself and his pursuer if he
                        swerved to the right to clear the sheds. He suddenly slackened his pace, and
                        with a vicious tug settled his wool hat more firmly upon his small skull. He
                        went now at a dog trot and Oscar was closing upon him rapidly; then, quite
                        near the sheds, Zmai wheeled about and charged his pursuer headlong. At the
                        moment he turned, Oscar's revolver bit keenly into the night.
                        Captain Claiborne, looking toward the slope, saw the flash before the hounds
                        at the stables answered the report.
                    At the shot Zmai cried aloud in his curiously small voice and clapped his
                        hands to his head.
                    "Stop; I want the letter!" shouted Oscar in German. The man
                        turned slowly, as though dazed, and, with a hand still clutching his head,
                        half-stumbled and half-ran toward the sheds, with Oscar at his heels.
                    
                    Claiborne called to the negro stable-men to quiet the dogs, snatched a
                        lantern, and ran away through the pergola to the end of the garden and
                        thence into the pasture beyond. Meanwhile Oscar, thinking Zmai badly hurt,
                        did not fire again, but flung himself upon the fellow's broad
                        shoulders and down they crashed against the door of the nearest pen. Zmai
                        swerved and shook himself free while he fiercely cursed his foe.
                        Oscar's hands slipped on the fellow's hot blood that ran
                        from a long crease in the side of his head.
                    As they fell the pen door snapped free, and out into the starry pasture
                        thronged the frightened sheep.
                    "The lettergive me the letter!" commanded Oscar, his face
                        close to the Servian's. He did not know how badly the man was
                        injured, but he was anxious to complete his business and be off. Still the
                        sheep came huddling through the broken door, across the prostrate men, and
                        scampered away into the open. Captain Claiborne, running toward the fold
                        with his lantern and not looking for obstacles, stumbled over their
                        bewildered advance guard and plunged headlong into the gray fleeces.
                        Meanwhile into the pockets of his prostrate foe went Oscar's hands
                        with no result. Then he remembered the man's gesture in pulling the
                        hat close upon his ears,  and off came the hat
                        and with it a blood-stained envelope. The last sheep in the pen trooped out
                        and galloped toward its comrades.
                    Oscar, making off with the letter, plunged into the rear guard of the sheep,
                        fell, stumbled to his feet, and confronted Captain Claiborne as that
                        gentleman, in soiled evening dress, fumbled for his lantern and swore in
                        language unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.
                    "Damn the sheep!" roared Claiborne.
                    "It is sheepyes?" and Oscar started to bolt.
                    "Halt!"
                    The authority of the tone rang familiarly in Oscar's ears. He had,
                        after considerable tribulation, learned to stop short when an officer spoke
                        to him, and the gentleman of the sheepfold stood straight in the starlight
                        and spoke like an officer.
                    "What in the devil are you doing here, and who fired that
                        shot?"
                    Oscar saluted and summoned his best English.
                    "It was an accident, sir."
                    "Why are you running and why did you fire? Understand you are a
                        trespasser here, and I am going to turn you over to the
                        constable."
                    "There was a sheep-stealeryes? He is yonder by the  pensand we had some little fighting; but he
                        is not deadno?"
                    At that moment Claiborne's eyes caught sight of a burly figure
                        rising and threshing about by the broken pen door.
                    "That is the sheep-stealer," said Oscar. "We shall
                        catch himyes?"
                    Zmai peered toward them uncertainly for a moment; then turned abruptly and
                        ran toward the road. Oscar started to cut off his retreat, but Claiborne
                        caught the sergeant by the shoulder and flung him back.
                    "One of you at a time! They can turn the hounds on the other rascal.
                        What's that you have there? Give it to mequick!"
                    "It's a piece of wool"
                    But Claiborne snatched the paper from Oscar's hand, and commanded
                        the man to march ahead of him to the house. So over the meadow and through
                        the pergola they went, across the veranda and into the library. The power of
                        army discipline was upon Oscar; if Claiborne had not been an officer he
                        would have run for it in the garden. As it was, he was taxing his wits to
                        find some way out of his predicament. He had not the slightest idea as to
                        what the paper might be. He had  risked his
                        life to secure it, and now the crumpled, blood-stained paper had been taken
                        away from him by a person whom it could not interest in any way
                        whatever.
                    He blinked under Claiborne's sharp scrutiny as they faced each other
                        in the library.
                    "You are the man who brought a horse back to our stable an hour
                        ago."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "You have been a soldier."
                    "In the cavalry, sir. I have my discharge at home."
                    "Where do you live?"
                    "I work as teamster in the coal minesyes?they are by Lamar,
                        sir."
                    Claiborne studied Oscar's erect figure carefully.
                    "Let me see your hands," he commanded; and Oscar extended
                        his palms.
                    "You are lying; you do not work in the coal mines. Your clothes are
                        not those of a miner; and a discharged soldier doesn't go to
                        digging coal. Stand where you are, and it will be the worse for you if you
                        try to bolt."
                    Claiborne turned to the table with the envelope. It was not sealed, and he
                        took out the plain sheet of note-paper on which was written: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    CABLEGRAM
                                    WINKELRIED, VIENNA. Not later than Friday.
                                    
                                        CHAUVENET.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Claiborne read and re-read these eight words; then he spoke bluntly to
                        Oscar.
                    "Where did you get this?"
                    "From the hat of the sheep-stealer up yonder."
                    "Who is he and where did he get it?"
                    "I don't know, sir. He was of Servia, and they are an ugly
                        raceyes?"
                    "What were you going to do with the paper?"
                    Oscar grinned.
                    "If I could read ityes; I might know; but if Austria is in the
                        paper, then it is mischief; and maybe it would be murder; who
                        knows?"
                    Claiborne looked frowningly from the paper to Oscar's tranquil
                        eyes.
                    "Dick!" called Shirley from the hall, and she appeared in
                        the doorway, drawing on her gloves; but paused at seeing Oscar.
                    "Shirley, I caught this man in the sheepfold. Did you ever see him
                        before?"
                    "I think not, Dick."
                    
                    "It was he that brought your horse home."
                    "To be sure it is! I hadn't recognized him. Thank you very
                        much;" and she smiled at Oscar.
                    Dick frowned fiercely and referred again to the paper.
                    "Where is Monsieur Chauvenethave you any idea?"
                    "If he isn't at the hotel or in Washington, I'm
                        sure I don't know. If we are going to the dance"
                    "Plague the dance! I heard a shot in the sheep pasture a bit ago and
                        ran out to find this fellow in a row with another man, who got
                        away."
                    "I heard the shot and the dogs from my window. You seem to have been
                        in a fuss, too, from the looks of your clothes;" and Shirley sat
                        down and smoothed her gloves with provoking coolness.
                    Dick sent Oscar to the far end of the library with a gesture, and held up the
                        message for Shirley to read.
                    "Don't touch it!" he exclaimed; and when she
                        nodded her head in sign that she had read it, he said, speaking earnestly
                        and rapidly:
                    "I suppose I have no right to hold this message; I must send the man
                        to the hotel telegraph office with it. But where is Chauvenet? What is his
                        business in the valley? And what is the link between Vienna and these
                        hills?"
                    
                    "Don't you know what you are doing
                        here?" she asked, and he flushed.
                    "I know what, but not why!" he blurted
                        irritably; "but that's enough!"
                    "You know that Baron von Marhof wants to find Mr. John Armitage; but
                        you don't know why."
                    "I have my orders and I'm going to find him, if it takes
                        ten years."
                    Shirley nodded and clasped her fingers together. Her elbows resting on the
                        high arms of her chair caused her cloak to flow sweepingly away from her
                        shoulders. At the end of the room, with his back to the portieres, stood
                        Oscar, immovable. Claiborne reexamined the message, and extended it again to
                        Shirley.
                    "There's no doubt of that being Chauvenet's
                        writing, is there?"
                    "I think not, Dick. I have had notes from him now and then in that
                        hand. He has taken pains to write this with unusual
                        distinctness."
                    The color brightened in her cheeks suddenly as she looked toward Oscar. The
                        curtains behind him swayed, but so did the curtain back of her. A May-time
                        languor had crept into the heart of April, and all the windows were open.
                        The blurred murmurs of insects stole  into the
                        house. Oscar, half-forgotten by his captor, heard a sound in the window
                        behind him and a hand touched him through the curtain.
                    Claiborne crumpled the paper impatiently.
                    "Shirley, you are against me! I believe you have seen Armitage here,
                        and I want you to tell me what you know of him. It is not like you to shield
                        a scamp of an adventureran unknown, questionable character. He has followed
                        you to this valley and will involve you in his affairs without the slightest
                        compunction, if he can. It's most infamous, outrageous, and when I
                        find him I'm going to thrash him within an inch of his life before
                        I turn him over to Marhof!"
                    Shirley laughed for the first time in their interview, and rose and placed
                        her hands on her brother's shoulders.
                    "Do it, Dick! He's undoubtedly a wicked, a terribly wicked
                        and dangerous character."
                    "I tell you I'll find him," he said tensely,
                        putting up his hands to hers, where they rested on his shoulders. She
                        laughed and kissed him, and when her hands fell to her side the message was
                        in her gloved fingers.
                    "I'll help you, Dick," she said, buttoning her
                        glove.
                    "That's like you, Shirley."
                    
                    "If you want to find Mr. Armitage"
                    "Of course I want to find him" His voice rose to a
                        roar.
                    "Then turn around; Mr. Armitage is just behind you!"
                    "Yes; I needed my man for other business," said Armitage,
                        folding his arms, "and as you were very much occupied I made free
                        with the rear veranda and changed places with him."
                    Claiborne walked slowly toward him, the anger glowing in his face.
                    "You are worse than I thoughtcavesdropper,
                        housebreaker!"
                    "Yes; I am both those things, Captain Claiborne. But I am also in a
                        great hurry. What do you want with me?"
                    "You are a rogue, an impostor"
                    "We will grant that," said Armitage quietly.
                        "Where is your warrant for my arrest?"
                    "That will be forthcoming fast enough! I want you to understand that
                        I have a personal grievance against you."
                    "It must wait until day after to-morrow, Captain  Claiborne. I will come to you here or
                        wherever you say on the day after to-morrow."
                    Armitage spoke with a deliberate sharp decision that was not the tone of a
                        rogue or a fugitive. As he spoke he advanced until he faced Claiborne in the
                        center of the room. Shirley still stood by the window, holding the soiled
                        paper in her hand. She had witnessed the change of men at the end of the
                        room; it had touched her humor; it had been a joke on her brother; but she
                        felt that the night had brought a crisis: she could not continue to shield a
                        man of whom she knew nothing save that he was the object of a curious
                        enmity. Her idle prayer that her own land's commonplace sordidness
                        might be obscured by the glamour of Old World romance came back to her; she
                        had been in touch with an adventure that was certainly proving fruitful of
                        diversion. The coup de theatre by which Armitage had taken
                        the place of his servant had amused her for a moment; but she was vexed and
                        angry now that he had dared come again to the house.
                    "You are under arrest, Mr. Armitage; I must detain you
                        here," said Claiborne.
                    "In Americain free Virginiawithout legal process?" asked
                        Armitage, laughing.
                    
                    "You are a housebreaker, that is enough. Shirley, please
                        go!"
                    "You were not detached from the army to find a housebreaker. But I
                        will make your work easy for you day after to-morrow I will present myself
                        to you wherever you say. But nowthat cable message which my man found in
                        your sheep pasture is of importance. I must trouble you to read it to
                        me."
                    "No!" shouted Claiborne.
                    Armitage drew a step nearer.
                    "You must take my word for it that matters of importance, of
                        far-reaching consequence, hang upon that message. I must know what it
                        is."
                    "You certainly have magnificent cheek! I am going to take that paper
                        to Baron von Marhof at once."
                    "Do so!but I must know first! Baron von Marhof and I are on the same
                        side in this business, but he doesn't understand it, and it is
                        clear you don't. Give me the message!"
                    He spoke commandingly, his voice thrilling with earnestness, and jerked out
                        his last words with angry impatience. At the same moment he and Claiborne
                        stepped toward each other, with their hands clenched at their sides.
                    
                    "I don't like your tone, Mr. Armitage!"
                    "I don't like to use that tone, Captain
                        Claiborne."
                    Shirley walked quickly to the table and put down the message. Then, going to
                        the door, she paused as though by an afterthought, and repeated quite slowly
                        the words:
                    "WinkelriedViennanot later than FridayChauvenet."
                    "Shirley!" roared Claiborne.
                    John Armitage bowed to the already vacant doorway; then bounded into the hall
                        out upon the veranda and ran through the garden to the side gate, where
                        Oscar waited.
                    Half an hour later Captain Claiborne, after an interview with Baron von
                        Marhof, turned his horse toward the hills.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE PRISONER AT THE BUNGALOW
                    
                        
                            So, exultant of heart, with front toward the bridges of
                                battle,
                            Sat they the whole night long, and the fires that they kindled
                                were many.
                            E'en as the stars in her train, with the moon as she
                                walketh in splendor,
                            Blaze forth bright in the heavens on nights when the welkin is
                                breathless,
                            Nights when the mountain peaks, their jutting cliffs, and the
                                valleys,
                            All are disclosed to the eye, and above them the fathomless
                                ether
                            Opens to star after star, and glad is the heart of the
                                shepherd
                            Such and so many the fires 'twixt the ships and the
                                streams of the Xanthus
                            Kept ablaze by the Trojans in front of the darkening city.
                            Over the plains were burning a thousand fires, and beside
                                them
                            Each sat fifty men in the firelight glare; and the horses,
                            Champing their fodder and barley white, and instant for
                                action,
                            Stood by the chariot-side and awaited the glory of
                                morning.
                            
                                The Iliad: Translation of Prentiss Cummings.
                            
                        
                    
                    "In Vienna, Friday!"
                    "There should be great deeds, my dear Jules;" and  Monsieur Durand adjusted the wick of a
                        smoking brass lamp that hung suspended from the ceiling of a room of the
                        inn, store and post-office at Lamar.
                    "Meanwhile, this being but Wednesday, we have our work to
                        do."
                    "Which is not so simple after all, as one studies the situation. Mr.
                        Armitage is here, quite within reach. We suspect him of being a person of
                        distinction. He evinced unusual interest in a certain document that was once
                        in your own hands"
                    "Our own hands, if you would be
                        accurate!"
                    "You are captious; but granted so, we must get them back. The
                        gentleman is dwelling in a bungalow on the mountain side, for greater
                        convenience in watching events and wooing the lady of his heart's
                        desire. We employed a clumsy clown to put him out of the world; but he dies
                        hard, and now we have got to get rid of him. But if he hasn't the
                        papers on his clothes then you have this pleasant scheme for kidnapping him,
                        getting him down to your steamer at Baltimore and cruising with him until he
                        is ready to come to terms. The American air has done much for your
                        imagination, my dear Jules; or possibly the altitude of the hills has
                        over-stimulated it."
                    
                    "You are not the fool you look, my dear Durand. You have actually
                        taken a pretty fair grasp of the situation."
                    "But the adorable young lady, the fair Mademoiselle Claiborne,what
                        becomes of her in these transactions?"
                    "That is none of your affair," replied Chauvenet, frowning.
                        "I am quite content with my progress. I have not finished in that
                        matter."
                    "Neither, it would seem, has Mr. John Armitage! But I am quite well
                        satisfied to leave it to you. In a few days we shall know much more than we
                        do now. I should be happier if you were in charge in Vienna. A false step
                        thereugh! I hesitate to think of the wretched mess there would
                        be."
                    "Trust Winkelried to do his full duty. You must not forget that the
                        acute Stroebel now sleeps the long sleep and that many masses have already
                        been said for the repose of his intrepid soul."
                    "The splendor of our undertaking is enough to draw his ghost from
                        the grave. Ugh! By this time Zmai should have filed our cablegram at the
                        Springs and got your mail at the hotel. I hope you have not misplaced your
                        confidence in the operator there. Coming back, our giant must pass
                        Armitage's house."
                    
                    "Trust him to pass it! His encounters with Armitage have not been to
                        his credit."
                    The two men were dressed in rough clothes, as for an outing, and in spite of
                        the habitual trifling tone of their talk, they wore a serious air.
                        Durand's eyes danced with excitement and he twisted his mustache
                        nervously. Chauvenet had gone to Washington to meet Durand, to get from him
                        news of the progress of the conspiracy in Vienna, and, not least, to berate
                        him for crossing the Atlantic. "I do not require watching, my dear
                        Durand," he had said.
                    "A man in love, dearest Jules, sometimes forgets;" but they
                        had gone into the Virginia hills amicably and were quartered with the
                        postmaster. They waited now for Zmai, whom they had sent to the Springs with
                        a message and to get Chauvenet's mail. Armitage, they had learned,
                        used the Lamar telegraph office and they had decided to carry their business
                        elsewhere.
                    While they waited in the bare upper room of the inn for Zmai, the big Servian
                        tramped up the mountain side with an aching head and a heart heavy with
                        dread. The horse he had left tied in a thicket when he plunged down through
                        the Claiborne place had broken free and run away; so that he must now trudge
                        back afoot to report  to his masters. He had
                        made a mess of his errands and nearly lost his life besides. The bullet from
                        Oscar's revolver had cut a neat furrow in his scalp, which was
                        growing sore and stiff as it ceased bleeding. He would undoubtedly be dealt
                        with harshly by Chauvenet and Durand, but he knew that the sooner he
                        reported his calamities the better; so he stumbled toward Lamar, pausing at
                        times to clasp his small head in his great hands. When he passed the wild
                        tangle that hid Armitage's bungalow he paused and cursed the two
                        occupants in his own dialect with a fierce vile tongue. It was near midnight
                        when he reached the tavern and climbed the rickety stairway to the room
                        where the two men waited.
                    Chauvenet opened the door at his approach, and they cried aloud as the great
                        figure appeared before them and the lamplight fell upon his dark
                        blood-smeared face.
                    "The letters!" snapped Chauvenet.
                    "Is the message safe?" demanded Durand.
                    "Lost; lost; they are lost! I lost my way and he nearly killed
                        me,the little soldier,as I crossed a strange field."
                    When they had jerked the truth from Zmai, Chauvenet flung open the door and
                        bawled through the house for the innkeeper.
                    
                    "Horses; saddle our two horses quickand get another if you have to
                        steal it," he screamed. Then he turned into the room to curse Zmai,
                        while Durand with a towel and water sought to ease the ache in the big
                        fellow's head and cleanse his face.
                    "So that beggarly little servant did it, did he? He stole that paper
                        I had given you, did he? What do you imagine I brought you to this country
                        for if you are to let two stupid fools play with you as though you were a
                        clown?"
                    The Servian, on his knees before Durand, suffered the torrent of abuse
                        meekly. He was a scoundrel, hired to do murder; and his vilification by an
                        angered employer did not greatly trouble him, particularly since he
                        understood little of Chauvenet's rapid German.
                    In half an hour Chauvenet was again in a fury, learning at Lamar that the
                        operator had gone down the road twenty miles to a dance and would not be
                        back until morning.
                    The imperturbable Durand shivered in the night air and prodded Chauvenet with
                        ironies.
                    "We have no time to lose. That message must go tonight. You may be
                        sure Monsieur Armitage will not  send it for
                        us. Come, we've got to go down to Storm Springs."
                    They rode away in the starlight, leaving the postmaster alarmed and
                        wondering. Chauvenet and Durand were well mounted on horses that Chauvenet
                        had sent into the hills in advance of his own coming. Zmai rode grim and
                        silent on a clumsy plow-horse, which was the best the publican could find
                        for him. The knife was not the only weapon he had known in Servia; he
                        carried a potato sack across his saddle-bow. Chauvenet and Durand sent him
                        ahead to set the pace with his inferior mount. They talked together in low
                        tones as they followed.
                    "He is not so big a fool, this Armitage," remarked Durand.
                        "He is quite deep, in fact. I wish it were he we are trying to
                        establish on a throne, and not that pitiful scapegrace in
                        Vienna."
                    "I gave him his chance down there in the valley and he laughed at
                        me. It is quite possible that he is not a fool; and quite certain that he is
                        not a coward."
                    "Then he would not be a safe king. Our young friend in Vienna is a
                        good deal of a fool and altogether a coward. We shall have to provide him
                        with a spine at his coronation."
                    
                    "If we fail" began Chauvenet.
                    "You suggest a fruitful but unpleasant topic. If we fail we shall be
                        fortunate if we reach the hospitable shores of the Argentine for future
                        residence. Paris and Vienna would not know us again. If Winkelried succeeds
                        in Vienna and we lose here, where do we arrive?"
                    "We arrive quite where Mr. Armitage chooses to land us. He is a
                        gentleman of resources; he has money; he laughs cheerfully at misadventures;
                        he has had you watched by the shrewdest eyes in Europe,and you are
                        considered a hard man to keep track of, my dear Durand. And not least
                        important,he has to-night snatched away that little cablegram that was the
                        signal to Winkelried to go ahead. He is a very annoying and vexatious
                        person, this Armitage. Even Zmai, whose knife made him a terror in Servia,
                        seems unable to cope with him."
                    "And the fair daughter of the valley"
                    "Pish! We are not discussing the young lady."
                    "I can understand how unpleasant the subject must be to you, my dear
                        Jules. What do you imagine she knows of Monsieur Armitage?
                        If he is the man we think he is and a possible heir to a great throne it
                        would be impossible for her to marry him."
                    
                    "His tastes are democratic. In Montana he is quite
                        popular."
                    Durand flung away his cigarette and laughed suddenly.
                    "Has it occurred to you that this whole affair is decidedly amusing?
                        Here we are, in one of the free American states, about to turn a card that
                        will dethrone a king, if we are lucky. And here is a man we are trying to
                        get out of the waya man we might make king if he were not a fool! In
                        America! It touches my sense of humor, my dear Jules!"
                    An exclamation from Zmai arrested them. The Servian jerked up his horse and
                        they were instantly at his side. They had reached a point near the hunting
                        preserve in the main highway. It was about half-past one o'clock,
                        an hour at which Virginia mountain roads are usually free of travelers, and
                        they had been sending their horses along as briskly as the uneven roads and
                        the pace of Zmai's laggard beast permitted.
                    The beat of a horse's hoofs could be heard quite distinctly in the
                        road ahead of them. The road tended downward, and the strain of the ascent
                        was marked in the approaching animal's walk; in a moment the three
                        men heard the horse's quick snort of satisfaction as it  reached leveler ground; then scenting the
                        other animals, it threw up its head and neighed shrilly.
                    In the dusk of starlight Durand saw Zmai dismount and felt the
                        Servian's big rough hand touch his in passing the bridle of his
                        horse.
                    "Wait!" said the Servian.
                    The horse of the unknown paused, neighed again, and refused to go farther. A
                        man's deep voice encouraged him in low tones. The horses of
                        Chauvenet's party danced about restlessly, responsive to the
                        nervousness of the strange beast before them.
                    "Who goes there?"
                    The stranger's horse was quiet for an instant and the rider had
                        forced him so near that the beast's up-reined head and the erect
                        shoulders of the horseman were quite clearly defined.
                    "Who goes there?" shouted the rider; while Chauvenet and
                        Durand bent their eyes toward him, their hands tight on their bridles, and
                        listened, waiting for Zmai. They heard a sudden rush of steps, the impact of
                        his giant body as he flung himself upon the shrinking horse; and then a cry
                        of alarm and rage. Chauvenet slipped down and ran forward with the quick,
                        soft glide of a cat and caught the bridle of the stranger's horse.
                        The  horseman struggled in Zmai's
                        great arms, and his beast plunged wildly. No words passed. The rider had
                        kicked his feet out of the stirrups and gripped the horse hard with his
                        legs. His arms were flung up to protect his head, over which Zmai tried to
                        force the sack.
                    "The knife?" bawled the Servian.
                    "No!" answered Chauvenet.
                    "The devil!" yelled the rider; and dug his spurs into the
                        rearing beast's flanks.
                    Chauvenet held on valiantly with both hands to the horse's head.
                        Once the frightened beast swung him clear of the ground. A few yards distant
                        Durand sat on his own horse and held the bridles of the others. He soothed
                        the restless animals in low tones, the light of his cigarette shaking oddly
                        in the dark with the movement of his lips.
                    The horse ceased to plunge; Zmai held its rider erect with his left arm while
                        the right drew the sack down over the head and shoulders of the
                        prisoner.
                    "Tie him," said Chauvenet; and Zmai buckled a strap about
                        the man's arms and bound them tight.
                    The dust in the bag caused the man inside to cough, but save for the one
                        exclamation he had not spoken. Chauvenet and Durand conferred in low tones
                        while  Zmai drew out a tether strap and
                        snapped it to the curbbit of the captive's horse.
                    "The fellow takes it pretty coolly," remarked Durand,
                        lighting a fresh cigarette. "What are you going to do with
                        him?"
                    "We will take him to his own placeit is nearand coax the papers out
                        of him; then we'll find a precipice and toss him over. It is a
                        simple matter."
                    Zmai handed Chauvenet the revolver he had taken from the silent man on the
                        horse.
                    "I am ready," he reported.
                    "Go ahead; we follow;" and they started toward the
                        bungalow, Zmai riding beside the captive and holding fast to the led-horse.
                        Where the road was smooth they sent the horses forward at a smart trot; but
                        the captive accepted the gait; he found the stirrups again and sat his
                        saddle straight. He coughed now and then, but the hemp sack was sufficiently
                        porous to give him a little air. As they rode off his silent submission
                        caused Durand to ask:
                    "Are you sure of the man, my dear Jules?"
                    "Undoubtedly. I didn't get a square look at him, but
                        he's a gentleman by the quality of his clothes. He is the same
                        build; it is not a plow-horse, but a thoroughbred  he's riding. The gentlemen of the valley are in their
                        beds long ago."
                    "Would that we were in ours! The spring nights are cold in these
                        hills!"
                    "The work is nearly done. The little soldier is yet to reckon with;
                        but we are three; and Zmai did quite well with the potato
                        sack."
                    Chauvenet rode ahead and addressed a few words to Zmai.
                    "The little man must be found before we finish. There must be no
                        mistake about it."
                    They exercised greater caution as they drew nearer the wood that concealed
                        the bungalow, and Chauvenet dismounted, opened the gate and set a stone
                        against it to insure a ready egress; then they walked their horses up the
                        driveway.
                    Admonished by Chauvenet, Durand threw away his cigarette with a sigh.
                    "You are convinced this is the wise course, dearest
                        Jules?"
                    "Be quiet and keep your eyes open. There's the
                        house."
                    He halted the party, dismounted and crept forward to the bungalow. He circled
                        the veranda, found the  blinds open, and
                        peered into the long lounging-room, where a few embers smoldered in the
                        broad fireplace, and an oil lamp shed a faint light. One man they held
                        captive; the other was not in sight; Chauvenet's courage rose at
                        the prospect of easy victory. He tried the door, found it unfastened, and
                        with his revolver ready in his hand, threw it open. Then he walked slowly
                        toward the table, turned the wick of the lamp high, and surveyed the room
                        carefully. The doors of the rooms that opened from the apartment stood ajar;
                        he followed the wall cautiously, kicked them open, peered into the room
                        where Armitage's things were scattered about, and found his iron
                        bed empty. Then he walked quickly to the veranda and summoned the
                        others.
                    "Bring him in!" he said, without taking his eyes from the
                        room.
                    A moment later Zmai had lifted the silent rider to the veranda, and flung him
                        across the threshold. Durand, now aroused, fastened the horses to the
                        veranda rail.
                    Chauvenet caught up some candles from the mantel and lighted them.
                    "Open the trunks in those rooms and be quick; I will join you in a
                        moment;" and as Durand turned into Armitage's  room, Chauvenet peered again into the other
                        chambers, called once or twice in a low tone; then turned to Zmai and the
                        prisoner.
                    "Take off the bag," he commanded.
                    Chauvenet studied the lines of the erect, silent figure as Zmai loosened the
                        strap, drew off the bag, and stepped back toward the table on which he had
                        laid his revolver for easier access.
                    "Mr. John Armitage"
                    Chauvenet, his revolver half raised, had begun an ironical speech, but the
                        words died on his lips. The man who stood blinking from the sudden burst of
                        light was not John Armitage, but Captain Claiborne.
                    The perspiration on Claiborne's face had made a paste of the dirt
                        from the potato sack, which gave him a weird appearance. He grinned broadly,
                        adding a fantastic horror to his visage which caused Zmai to leap back
                        toward the door. Then Chauvenet cried aloud, a cry of anger, which brought
                        Durand into the hall at a jump. Claiborne shrugged his shoulders, shook the
                        blood into his numbed arms; then turned his besmeared face toward Durand and
                        laughed. He laughed long and loud as the stupefaction deepened on the faces
                        of the two men.
                    The objects which Durand held caused Claiborne to  stare, and then he laughed again. Durand had caught up from a
                        hook in Armitage's room a black cloak, so long that it trailed at
                        length from his arms, its red lining glowing brightly where it lay against
                        the outer black. From the folds of the cloak a sword, plucked from a trunk,
                        dropped upon the floor with a gleam of its bright scabbard. In his right
                        hand he held a silver box of orders, and as his arm fell at the sight of
                        Claiborne, the gay ribbons and gleaming pendants flashed to the floor.
                    "It is not Armitage; we have made a mistake!" muttered
                        Chauvenet tamely, his eyes falling from Claiborne's face to the
                        cloak, the sword, the tangled heap of ribbons on the floor.
                    Durand stepped forward with an oath.
                    "Who is the man?" he demanded.
                    "It is my friend Captain Claiborne. We owe the gentleman an
                        apology" Chauvenet began.
                    "You put it mildly," cried Claiborne in English, his back
                        to the fireplace, his arms folded, and the smile gone from his face.
                        "I don't know your companions, Monsieur Chauvenet, but you
                        seem inclined to the gentle arts of kidnapping and murder. Really,
                        Monsieur"
                    
                    "It is a mistake! It is unpardonable! I can only offer you
                        reparationanything you ask," stammered Chauvenet.
                    "You are looking for John Armitage, are you?" demanded
                        Claiborne hotly, without heeding Chauvenet's words. "Mr.
                        Armitage is not here; he was in Storm Springs to-night, at my house. He is a
                        brave gentleman, and I warn you that you will injure him at your peril. You
                        may kill me here or strangle me or stick a knife into me, if you will be
                        better satisfied that way; or you may kill him and hide his body in these
                        hills; but, by God, there will be no escape for you! The highest powers of
                        my government know that I am here; Baron von Marhof knows that I am here. I
                        have an engagement to breakfast with Baron von Marhof at his house at eight
                        o'clock in the morning, and if I am not there every agency of the
                        government will be put to work to find you, Mr. Jules Chauvenet, and these
                        other scoundrels who travel with you."
                    "You are violent, my dear sir" began Durand, whose wits
                        were coming back to him much quicker than Chauvenet's.
                    "I am not as violent as I shall be if I get a troop of cavalry from
                        Fort Myer down here and hunt you like  rabbits
                        through the hills. And I advise you to cable Winkelried at Vienna that the
                        game is all off!"
                    Chauvenet suddenly jumped toward the table, the revolver still swinging at
                        arm's length.
                    "You know too much!"
                    "I don't know any more than Armitage, and Baron von Marhof
                        and my father, and the Honorable Secretary of State, to say nothing of the
                        equally Honorable Secretary of War."
                    Claiborne stretched out his arms and rested them along the shelf of the
                        mantel, and smiled with a smile which the dirt on his face weirdly accented.
                        His hat was gone, his short hair rumpled; he dug the bricks of the hearth
                        with the toe of his riding-boot as an emphasis of his contentment with the
                        situation.
                    "You don't understand the gravity of our labors. The peace
                        of a great Empire is at stake in this business. We are engaged on a
                        patriotic mission of great importance."
                    It was Durand who spoke. Outside, Zmai held the horses in readiness.
                    "You are a fine pair of patriots, I swear," said Claiborne.
                        "What in the devil do you want with John Armitage?"
                    
                    "He is a menace to a great thronean impostor a"
                    Chauvenet's eyes swept with a swift glance the cloak, the sword, the
                        scattered orders. Claiborne followed the man's gaze, but he looked
                        quickly toward Durand and Chauvenet, not wishing them to see that the sight
                        of these things puzzled him.
                    "Pretty trinkets! But such games as yours, these pretty baublesare
                        not for these free hills."
                    
                        "Where is John Armitage?"
                    
                    Chauvenet half raised his right arm as he spoke and the steel of his revolver
                        flashed.
                    Claiborne did not move; he smiled upon them, re-crossed his legs, and settled
                        his back more comfortably against the mantel-shelf.
                    "I really forget where he said he would be at this hour. He and his
                        man may have gone to Washington, or they may have started for Vienna, or
                        they may be in conference with Baron von Marhof at my father's, or
                        they may be waiting for you at the gate. The Lord only knows!"
                    "Come; we waste time," said Durand in French. "It
                        is a trap. We must not be caught here!"
                    "Yes; you'd better go," said Claiborne, yawning
                        and  settling himself in a new pose with his
                        back still to the fireplace. "I don't believe Armitage
                        will care if I use his bungalow occasionally during my sojourn in the hills;
                        and if you will be so kind as to leave my horse well tied out there
                        somewhere I believe I'll go to bed. I'm sorry, Mr.
                        Chauvenet, that I can't just remember who introduced you to me and
                        my family. I owe that person a debt of gratitude for bringing so pleasant a
                        scoundrel to my notice."
                    He stepped to the table, his hands in his pockets, and bowed to them.
                    "Good night, and clear out," and he waved his arm in
                        dismissal.
                    "Come!" said Durand peremptorily, and as Chauve-net
                        hesitated, Durand seized him by the arm and pulled him toward the door.
                    As they mounted and turned to go they saw Claiborne standing at the table,
                        lighting a cigarette from one of the candles. He walked to the veranda and
                        listened until he was satisfied that they had gone; then went in and closed
                        the door. He picked up the cloak and sword and restored the insignia to the
                        silver box. The sword he examined with professional interest, running his
                        hand  over the embossed scabbard, then drawing
                        the bright blade and trying its balance and weight.
                    As he held it thus, heavy steps sounded at the rear of the house, a door was
                        flung open and Armitage sprang into the room with Oscar close at his
                        heels.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE VERGE OF MORNING
                    
                        
                            O to mount again where erst I haunted;
                            Where the old red hills are bird-enchanted,
                            And the low green meadows
                            Bright with sward;
                            And when even dies, the million-tinted,
                            And the night has come, and planets glinted,
                            Lo! the valley hollow,
                            Lamp-bestarr'd.
                            
                                R. L. S.
                            
                        
                    
                    "I hope you like my things, Captain Claiborne!"
                    Armitage stood a little in advance, his hand on Oscar's arm to check
                        the rush of the little man.
                    Claiborne sheathed the sword, placed it on the table and folded his arms.
                    "Yes; they are very interesting."
                    "And those ribbons and that cloak,I assure you they are of excellent
                        quality. Oscar, put a blanket on this gentleman's horse. Then make
                        some coffee and wait."
                    As Oscar closed the door, Armitage crossed to the  table, flung down his gauntlets and hat and turned to
                        Claiborne.
                    "I didn't expect this of you; I really didn't
                        expect it. Now that you have found me, what in the devil do you
                        want?"
                    "I don't knowI'll be damned if I
                        know!" and Claiborne grinned, so that the grotesque lines of his
                        soiled countenance roused Armitage's slumbering wrath.
                    "You'd better find out damned quick! This is my busy night
                        and if you can't explain yourself I'm going to tie you
                        hand and foot and drop you down the well till I finish my work. Speak up!
                        What are you doing on my grounds, in my house, at this hour of the night,
                        prying into my affairs and rummaging in my trunks?"
                    "I didn't come here, Armitage; I was
                        broughtwith a potato sack over my head. There's the sack on the
                        floor, and any of its dirt that isn't on my face must be
                        permanently settled in my lungs."
                    "What are you doing up here in the mountainswhy are you not at your
                        station? The potato-sack story is pretty flimsy. Do better than that and
                        hurry up!"
                    "Armitage"as he spoke, Claiborne walked to the table and
                        rested his finger-tips on it"Armitage, you and I have made some
                        mistakes during our short acquaintance.  I
                        will tell you frankly that I have blown hot and cold about you as I never
                        did before with another man in my life. On the ship coming over and when I
                        met you in Washington I thought well of you. Then your damned cigarette case
                        shook my confidence in you there at the Army and Navy Club that night; and
                        now"
                    "Damn my cigarette case!" bellowed Armitage, clapping his
                        hand to his pocket to make sure of it.
                    "That's what I say! But it was a disagreeable situation,you
                        must admit that."
                    "It was, indeed!"
                    "It requires some nerve for a man to tell a circumstantial story
                        like that to a tableful of gentlemen, about one of the
                        gentlemen!"
                    "No doubt of it whatever, Mr. Claiborne."
                    Armitage unbuttoned his coat, and jerked back the lapels impatiently.
                    "And I knew as much about Monsieur Chauvenet as I did about you, or
                        as I do about you!"
                    "What you know of him, Mr. Claiborne, is of no consequence. And what
                        you don't know about me would fill a large volume. How did you get
                        here, and what do you propose doing, now that you are here? I am in a  hurry and have no time to waste. If I
                        can't get anything satisfactory out of you within two minutes
                        I'm going to chuck you back into the sack."
                    "I came up here in the hills to look for youyouyou! Do you
                        understand?" began Claiborne angrily. "And as I was riding
                        along the road about two miles from here I ran into three men on horseback.
                        When I stopped to parley with them and find out what they were doing, they
                        crept up on me and grabbed my horse and put that sack over my head. They had
                        mistaken me for you; and they brought me here, into your house, and pulled
                        the sack off and were decidedly disagreeable at finding they had made a
                        mistake. One of them had gone in to ransack your effects and when they
                        pulled off the bag and disclosed the wrong hare, he dropped his loot on the
                        floor; and then I told them to go to the devil, and I hope they've
                        done it! When you came in I was picking up your traps, and I submit that the
                        sword is handsome enough to challenge anybody's eye. And
                        there's all there is of the story, and I don't care a damn
                        whether you believe it or not."
                    Their eyes were fixed upon each other in a gaze of anger and resentment.
                        Suddenly, Armitage's tense figure 
                        relaxed; the fierce light in his eyes gave way to a gleam of humor and he
                        laughed long and loud.
                    "Your faceyour face, Claiborne; it's funny. It's
                        too funny for any use. When your teeth show it's something ghastly.
                        For God's sake go in there and wash your face!"
                    He made a light in his own room and plied Claiborne with towels, while he
                        continued to break forth occasionally in fresh bursts of laughter. When they
                        went into the hall both men were grave.
                    "Claiborne"
                    Armitage put out his hand and Claiborne took it in a vigorous clasp.
                    "You don't know who I am or what I am; and I
                        haven't got time to tell you now. It's a long story; and I
                        have much to do, but I swear to you, Claiborne, that my hands are clean;
                        that the game I am playing is no affair of my own, but a big thing that I
                        have pledged myself to carry through. I want you to ride down there in the
                        valley and keep Marhof quiet for a few hours; tell him I know more of
                        what's going on in Vienna than he does, and that if he will only
                        sit in a rocking-chair and tell you fairy stories till morning, we can all
                        be  happy. Is it a bargainormust I still hang
                        your head down the well till I get through?"
                    "Marhof may go to the devil! He's a lot more mysterious
                        than even you, Armitage. These fellows that brought me up here to kill me in
                        the belief that I was you can not be friends of Marhof's
                        cause."
                    "They are not; I assure you they are not! They are blackguards of
                        the blackest dye."
                    "I believe you, Armitage."
                    "Thank you. Now your horse is at the doorrun along like a good
                        fellow."
                    Armitage dived into his room, caught up a cartridge belt and reappeared
                        buckling it on.
                    "Oscar!" he yelled, "bring in that coffeewith cups
                        for two."
                    He kicked off his boots and drew on light shoes and leggings.
                    "Light marching orders for the rough places. Confound that
                        buckle."
                    He rose and stamped his feet to settle the shoes.
                    "Your horse is at the door; that rascal Oscar will take off the
                        blanket for you. There's a bottle of fair whisky in the cupboard,
                        if you'd like a nip before starting. Bless me! I forgot the coffee!
                        There on the table, Oscar,  and never mind the
                        chairs," he added as Oscar came in with a tin pot and the cups on a
                        piece of plank.
                    "I'm taking the rifle, Oscar; and be sure those revolvers
                        are loaded with the real goods."
                    There was a great color in Armitage's face as he strode about
                        preparing to leave. His eyes danced with excitement, and between the
                        sentences that he jerked out half to himself he whistled a few bars from a
                        comic opera that was making a record run on Broadway. His steps rang out
                        vigorously from the bare pine floor.
                    "Watch the windows, Oscar; you may forgive a general anything but a
                        surpriseisn't that so, Claiborne? and those fellows must be pretty
                        mad by this time. Excuse the coffee service, Claiborne. We always pour the
                        sugar from the paper bagoriginal package, you understand. And see if you
                        can't find Captain Claiborne a hat, Oscar"
                    With a tin-cup of steaming coffee in his hand he sat on the table dangling
                        his legs, his hat on the back of his head, the cartridge belt strapped about
                        his waist over a brown corduroy hunting-coat. He was in a high mood, and
                        chaffed Oscar as to the probability of their breakfasting another morning.
                        "If we die, Oscar, it shall be in a good cause!"
                    
                    
                        "Excuse the coffee service, Claiborne"
                                Page 320
                        
                    
                    
                    He threw aside his cup with a clatter, jumped down and caught the sword from
                        the table, examined it critically, then sheathed it with a click.
                    Claiborne had watched Armitage with a growing impatience; he resented the
                        idea of being thus ignored; then he put his hand roughly on
                        Armitage's shoulder.
                    Armitage, intent with his own affairs, had not looked at Claiborne for
                        several minutes, but he glanced at him now as though just recalling a
                        duty.
                    "Lord, man! I didn't mean to throw you into the road!
                        There's a clean bed in there that you're welcome togo in
                        and get some sleep."
                    "I'm not going into the valley," roared Claiborne,
                        "and I'm not going to bed; I'm going with you,
                        damn you!"
                    "But bless your soul, man, you can't go with me; you are as
                        ignorant as a babe of my affairs, and I'm terribly busy and have no
                        time to talk to you. Oscar, that coffee scalded me. Claiborne, if only I had
                        time, you know, but under existing circumstances"
                    "I repeat that I'm going with you. I don't know
                        why I'm in this row, and I don't know what it's
                        all about, but I believe what you say about it; and I want you to understand
                        that I can't be put in a bag like a prize  potato without taking a whack at the man who put me
                        there."
                    "But if you should get hurt, Claiborne, it would spoil my plans. I
                        never could face your family again," said Armitage earnestly.
                        "Take your horse and go."
                    "I'm going back to the valley when you do."
                    "Humph! Drink your coffee! Oscar, bring out the rest of the
                        artillery and give Captain Claiborne his choice."
                    He picked up his sword again, flung the blade from the scabbard with a swish,
                        and cut the air with it, humming a few bars of a German drinking-song. Then
                        he broke out with:
                    
                        "I do not think a braver gentleman,
                        More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
                        More daring or more bold, is now alive
                        To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
                        For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
                        I have a truant been to chivalry;
                    
                    "Lord, Claiborne, you don't know what's ahead of
                        us!
                    It's the greatest thing that ever happened. I never expected
                        anything like thisnot on my cheerfulest days. Dearest Jules is out looking
                        for a telegraph office to pull off the Austrian end of the rumpus. Well,
                        little good it will do him! And we'll catch him and Durand and that
                             Servian devil and lock them up here till
                        Marhof decides what to do with him. We're off!"
                    "All ready, sir;" said Oscar briskly.
                    "It's half-past two. They didn't get off their
                        message at Lamar, because the office is closed and the operator gone, and
                        they will keep out of the valley and away from the big inn, because they are
                        rather worried by this time and not anxious to get too near Marhof.
                        They've probably decided to go to the next station below Lamar to
                        do their telegraphing. Meanwhile they haven't got me!"
                    "They had me and didn't want me," said Claiborne,
                        mounting his own horse.
                    "They'll have a good many things they don't want
                        in the next twenty-four hours. If I hadn't enjoyed this business so
                        much myself we might have had some secret service men posted all along the
                        coast to keep a lookout for them. But it's been a great old lark.
                        And now to catch them!"
                    Outside the preserve they paused for an instant.
                    "They're not going to venture far from their base, which is
                        that inn and post-office, where they have been rummaging my mail. I
                        haven't studied the hills for nothing, and I know short cuts about
                        here that are not on maps. They haven't followed the railroad
                        north, because the valley broadens too much and there are too  many people. There's a trail up here
                        that goes over the ridge and down through a wind gap to a settlement about
                        five miles south of Lamar. If I'm guessing right, we can cut around
                        and get ahead of them and drive them back here to my land."
                    "To the Port of Missing Men! It was made for the business,"
                        said Claiborne.
                    "Oscar, patrol the road here, and keep an eye on the bungalow, and
                        if you hear us forcing them down, charge from this side. I'll fire
                        twice when I get near the Port to warn you; and if you strike them first,
                        give the same signal. Do be careful, Sergeant, how you shoot. We want
                        prisoners, you understand, not corpses."
                    Armitage found a faint trail, and with Claiborne struck off into the forest
                        near the main gate of his own grounds. In less than an hour they rode out
                        upon a low-wooded ridge and drew up their panting, sweating horsestwo
                        shadowy videttes against the lustral dome of stars. A keen wind whistled
                        across the ridge and the horses pawed the unstable ground restlessly. The
                        men jumped down to tighten their saddle-girths, and they turned up their
                        coat collars before mounting again.
                    "Come! We're on the verge of morning," said
                        Armitage, "and there's no time to lose."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE ATTACK IN THE ROAD
                    
                        
                            Cowards and laggards fall back; but alert to the saddle,
                            Straight, grim and abreast, vault our weather-worn galloping
                                legion,
                            With a stirrup-cup each to the one gracious woman that loves
                                him.
                            
                                Louise Imogen Guiney.
                            
                        
                    
                    "There's an abandoned lumber camp down here, if
                        I'm not mistaken, and if we've made the right turns we
                        ought to be south of Lamar and near the railroad."
                    Armitage passed his rein to Claiborne and plunged down the steep road to
                        reconnoiter.
                    "It's a strange business," Claiborne muttered
                        half-aloud.
                    The cool air of the ridge sobered him, but he reviewed the events of the
                        night without regret. Every young officer in the service would envy him this
                        adventure. At military posts scattered across the continent men whom he knew
                        well were either abroad on duty, or slept the sleep of peace. He lifted his
                        eyes to the paling  stars. Before long bugle
                        and morning gun would announce the new day at points all along the seaboard.
                        His West Point comrades were scattered far, and the fancy seized him that
                        the bugle brought them together every day of their lives as it sounded the
                        morning calls that would soon begin echoing down the coast from Kennebec
                        Arsenal and Fort Preble in Maine, through Myer and Monroe, to McPherson, in
                        Georgia, and back through Niagara and Wayne to Sheridan, and on to Ringgold
                        and Robinson and Crook, zigzagging back and forth over mountain and plain to
                        the Pacific, and thence ringing on to Alaska, and echoing again from Hawaii
                        to lonely outposts in Asian seas.
                    He was so intent with the thought that he hummed reveille, and was about to
                        rebuke himself for unsoldierly behavior on duty when Armitage whistled for
                        him to advance.
                    It's all right; they haven't passed yet. I met a railroad
                        track-walker down there and he said he had seen no one between here and
                        Lamar. Now they're handicapped by the big country horse they had to
                        take for that Servian devil, and we can push them as hard as we like. We
                        must get them beyond Lamar before we crowd them; and don't forget
                        that we want to drive them into  my land for
                        the round-up. I'm afraid we're going to have a wet
                        morning."
                    They rode abreast beside the railroad through the narrow gap. A long
                        freight-train rumbled and rattled by, and a little later they passed a coal
                        shaft, where a begrimed night shift loaded cars under flaring torches.
                    "Their message to Winkelried is still on this side of the
                        Atlantic," said Armitage; "but Winkelried is in a strong
                        room by this time, if the existing powers at Vienna are what they ought to
                        be. I've done my best to get him there. The message would only help
                        the case against him if they sent it."
                    Claiborne groaned mockingly.
                    "I suppose I'll know what it's all about when I
                        read it in the morning papers. I like the game well enough, but it might be
                        more amusing to know what the devil I'm fighting for."
                    "You enlisted without reading the articles of war, and
                        you've got to take the consequences. You've done what you
                        set out to doyou've found me; and you're traveling with me
                        over the Virginia mountains to report my capture to Baron von Marhof. On the
                        way you are going to assist in another affair that will be equally to your
                        credit; and then if all goes well with us I'm going  to give myself the pleasure of allowing
                        Monsieur Chauvenet to tell you exactly who I am. The incident appeals to my
                        sense of humorI assure you I have one! Of course, if I were not a person of
                        very great distinction Chauvenet and his friend Durand would not have
                        crossed the ocean and brought with them a professional assassin, skilled in
                        the use of smothering and knifing, to do away with me. You are in luck to be
                        alive. We are dangerously near the same size and buildand in the darkon
                        horseback"
                    "That was funny. I knew that if I ran for it they'd plug me
                        for sure, and that if I waited until they saw their mistake they would be
                        afraid to kill me. Ugh! I still taste the red soil of the Old
                        Dominion."
                    "Come, Captain! Let us give the horses a chance to prove their
                        blood. These roads will be paste in a few hours."
                    The dawn was breaking sullenly, and out of a gray, low-hanging mist a light
                        rain fell in the soft, monotonous fashion of mountain rain. Much of the time
                        it was necessary to maintain single file; and Armitage rode ahead. The fog
                        grew thicker as they advanced; but they did not lessen their pace, which had
                        now dropped to a steady trot.
                    
                    Suddenly, as they swept on beyond Lamar, they heard the beat of hoofs and
                        halted.
                    "Bully for us! We've cut in ahead of them! Can you count
                        them, Claiborne?"
                    "There are three horses all right enough, and they're
                        forcing the beasts. What's the word?"
                    "Drive them back! Readyhere we go!" roared Armitage in a
                        voice intended to be heard.
                    They yelled at the top of their voices as they charged, plunging into the
                        advancing trio after a forty-yard gallop.
                    " 'Not later than Friday'back you go!"
                        shouted Armitage, and laughed aloud at the enemy's rout. One of the
                        horsesit seemed from its rider's yells to be
                        Chauvenet'sturned and bolted, and the others followed back the way
                        they had come.
                    Soon they dropped their pace to a trot, but the trio continued to fly before
                        them.
                    "They're rattled," said Claiborne, "and
                        the fog isn't helping them any."
                    "We're getting close to my place," said Armitage;
                        and as he spoke two shots fired in rapid succession cracked faintly through
                        the fog and they jerked up their horses.
                    
                    "It's Oscar! He's a good way ahead, if I judge the
                        shots right."
                    "If the turns them back we ought to hear their horses in a
                        moment," observed Claiborne. "The fog muffles sounds. The
                        road's pretty level in here."
                    "We must get them out of it and into my territory for safety.
                        We're within a mile of the gate and we ought to be able to crowd
                        them into that long open strip where the fences are down. Damn the
                        fog!"
                    The agreed signal of two shots reached them again, but clearer, like
                        drum-taps, and was immediately answered by scattering shots. A moment later,
                        as the two riders moved forward at a walk, a sharp volley rang out quite
                        clearly and they heard shouts and the crack of revolvers again.
                    "By George! They're cominghere we go!"
                    They put their horses to the gallop and rode swiftly through the fog. The
                        beat of hoofs was now perfectly audible ahead of them, and they heard, quite
                        distinctly, a single revolver snap twice.
                    "Oscar has them on the runbully for Oscar! They're getting
                        closethank the Lord for this level stretchnow howl and let 'er
                        go!"
                    They went forward with a yell that broke weirdly and  chokingly on the gray cloak of fog, their horses'
                        hoofs pounding dully on the earthen road. The rain had almost ceased, but
                        enough had fallen to soften the ground.
                    "They're terribly brave or horribly scared, from their
                        speed," shouted Claiborne. "Now for it!"
                    They rose in their stirrups and charged, yelling lustily, riding neck and
                        neck toward the unseen foe, and with their horses at their highest pace they
                        broke upon the mounted trio that now rode upon them grayly out of the
                        mist.
                    There was a mad snorting and shrinking of horses. One of the animals turned
                        and tried to bolt, and his rider, struggling to control him, added to the
                        confusion. The fog shut them in with each other; and Armitage and Claiborne,
                        having flung back their own horses at the onset, had an instant's
                        glimpse of Chauvenet trying to swing his horse into the road; of Zmai
                        half-turning, as his horse reared, to listen for the foe behind; and of
                        Durand's impassive white face as he steadied his horse with his
                        left hand and leveled a revolver at Armitage with his right.
                    With a cry Claiborne put spurs to his horse and drove him forward upon
                        Durand. His hand knocked the leveled revolver flying into the fog. Then Zmai
                        fired twice,  and Chauvenet's
                        frightened horse, panic-stricken at the shots, reared, swung round and
                        dashed back the way he had come, and Durand and Zmai followed.
                    The three disappeared into the mist, and Armitage and Claiborne shook
                        themselves together and quieted their horses.
                    "That was too close for funare you all there?" asked
                        Armitage.
                    "Still in it; but Chauvenet's friend won't miss
                        every time. There's murder in his eye. The big fellow seemed to be
                        trying to shoot his own horse."
                    "Oh, he's a knife and sack man and clumsy with the
                        gun."
                    They moved slowly forward now and Armitage sent his horse across the rough
                        ditch at the roadside to get his bearings. The fog seemed at the point of
                        breaking, and the mass about them shifted and drifted in the growing
                        light.
                    "This is my land, sure enough. Lord, man, I wish you'd get
                        out of this and go home. You see they're an ugly lot and
                        don't use toy pistols."
                    "Remember the potato sack! That's my watchword,"
                        laughed Claiborne.
                    They rode with their eyes straight ahead, peering  through the breaking, floating mist. It was now so clear and
                        light that they could see the wood at either hand, though fifty yards ahead
                        in every direction the fog still lay like a barricade.
                    "I should value a change of raiment," observed Armitage.
                        "There was an advantage in armoryour duds might get rusty on a damp
                        excursion, but your shirt wouldn't stick to your
                        hide."
                    "Who cares? Those devils are pretty quiet, and the little sergeant
                        is about due to bump into them again."
                    They had come to a gradual turn in the road at a point where a steep, wooded
                        incline swept up on the left. On the right lay the old hunting preserve and
                        Armitage's bungalow. As they drew into the curve they heard a
                        revolver crack twice, as before, followed by answering shots and cries and
                        the thump of hoofs.
                    "Ohee! Oscar has struck them again. Steady now! Watch your
                        horse!" And Armitage raised his arm high above his head and fired
                        twice as a warning to Oscar.
                    The distance between the contending parties was shorter now than at the first
                        meeting, and Armitage and Claiborne bent forward in their saddles, talking
                        softly to their horses, that had danced wildly at Armitage's
                        shots.
                    
                    "Lord! if we can crowd them in here now and back to the
                        Port!"
                    "There!"
                    Exclamations died on their lips at the instant. Ahead of them lay the fog,
                        rising and breaking in soft folds, and behind it men yelled and several
                        shots snapped spitefully on the heavy air. Then a curious picture disclosed
                        itself just at the edge of the vapor, as though it were a curtain through
                        which actors in a drama emerged upon a stage. Zmai and Chauvenet flashed
                        into view suddenly, and close behind them, Oscar, yelling like mad. He drove
                        his horse between the two men, threw himself flat as Zmai fired at him, and
                        turned and waved his hat and laughed at them; then, just before his horse
                        reached Claiborne and Armitage, he checked its speed abruptly, flung it
                        about and then charged back, still yelling, upon the amazed foe.
                    "He's crazyhe's gone clean out of his
                        head!" muttered Claiborne, restraining his horse with difficulty.
                        "What do you make of it?"
                    "He's having fun with them. He's just rattling
                        them to warm himself upthe little beggar. I didn't know it was in
                        him."
                    Back went Oscar toward the two horsemen he had 
                        passed less than a minute before, still yelling, and this time he discharged
                        his revolver with seeming unconcern for the value of ammunition, and as he
                        again dashed between them, and back through the gray curtain, Armitage gave
                        the word, and he and Claiborne swept on at a gallop.
                    Durand was out of sight, and Chauvenet turned and looked behind him uneasily;
                        then he spoke sharply to Zmai. Oscar's wild ride back and forth had
                        demoralized the horses, which were snorting and plunging wildly. As Armitage
                        and Claiborne advanced Chauvenet spoke again to Zmai and drew his own
                        revolver.
                    "Oh, for a saber now!" growled Claiborne.
                    But it was not a moment for speculation or regret. Both sides were perfectly
                        silent as Claiborne, leading slightly, with Armitage pressing close at his
                        left, galloped toward the two men who faced them at the gray wall of mist.
                        They bore to the left with a view of crowding the two horsemen off the road
                        and into the preserve, and as they neared them they heard cries through the
                        mist and rapid hoof-beats, and Durand's horse leaped the ditch at
                        the roadside just before it reached Chauvenet and Zmai and ran away through
                        the rough  underbrush into the wood, Oscar
                        close behind and silent now, grimly intent on his business.
                    The revolvers of Zmai and Chauvenet cracked together, and they, too, turned
                        their horses into the wood, and away they all went, leaving the road
                        clear.
                    "My horse got it that time!" shouted Claiborne.
                    "So did I," replied Armitage; "but never you mind,
                        old man, we've got them cornered now."
                    Claiborne glanced at Armitage and saw his right hand, still holding his
                        revolver, go to his shoulder.
                    "Much damage?"
                    "It struck a hard place, but I am still fit."
                    The blood streamed from the neck of Claiborne's horse, which threw
                        up its head and snorted in pain, but kept bravely on at the trot in which
                        Armitage had set the pace.
                    "Poor devil! We'll have a reckoning pretty soon,"
                        cried Armitage cheerily. "No kingdom is worth a good
                        horse!"
                    They advanced at a trot toward the Port.
                    "You'll be afoot any minute now, but we're in good
                        shape and on our own soil, with those carrion between us and a gap they
                        won't care to drop into! I'm off for  the gateyou wait here, and if Oscar fires the signal, give the
                        answer."
                    Armitage galloped off to the right and Claiborne jumped from his horse just
                        as the wounded animal trembled for a moment, sank to its knees and rolled
                        over dead.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE PORT OF MISSING MEN
                    
                        
                            Fast they come, fast they come;
                            See how they gather!
                            Wide waves the eagle plume,
                            Blended with heather.
                            Cast your plaids, draw your blades,
                            Forward each man set!
                            Pibroch of Donuil Dhu
                            Knell for the onset!
                            
                                Sir Walter Scott.
                            
                        
                    
                    Claiborne climbed upon a rock to get his bearings, and as he gazed off
                        through the wood a bullet sang close to his head and he saw a man slipping
                        away through the underbrush a hundred yards ahead of him. He threw up his
                        rifle and fired after the retreating figure, jerked the lever spitefully and
                        waited. In a few minutes Oscar rode alertly out of the wood at his left.
                    "It was better for us a dead horse than a dead manyes?" was
                        the little sergeant's comment. "We shall come back for the
                        saddle and bridle,"
                    "Humph! Where do you think those men are?"
                    
                    "Behind some rocks near the edge of the gap. It is a poor
                        position."
                    "I'm not sure of that. They'll escape across the
                        old bridge."
                    
                        "Nein. A sparrow would shake it down. Three men
                        at oncethey would not need our bullets!"
                    Far away to the right two reports in quick succession gave news of
                        Armitage.
                    "It's the signal that he's got between them and
                        the gate. Swing around to the left and I will go straight to the big
                        clearing, and meet you."
                    "You will have my horseyes?" Oscar began to dismount.
                    "No; I do well enough this way. Forward!the word is to keep them
                        between us and the gap until we can sit on them."
                    The mist was fast disappearing and swirling away under a sharp wind, and the
                        sunlight broke warmly upon the drenched world. Claiborne started through the
                        wet undergrowth at a dog trot. Armitage, he judged, was about half a mile
                        away, and to make their line complete Oscar should traverse an equal
                        distance. The soldier blood in Claiborne warmed at the prospect of a
                        definite contest. He grinned as it occurred to him  that he had won the distinction of having a horse shot under
                        him in an open road fight, almost within sight of the dome of the
                        Capitol.
                    The brush grew thinner and the trees fewer, and he dropped down and crawled
                        presently to the shelter of a boulder, from which he could look out upon the
                        open and fairly level field known as the Port of Missing Men. There as a boy
                        he had dreamed of battles as he pondered the legend of the Lost Legion. At
                        the far edge of the field was a fringe of stunted cedars, like an abatis,
                        partly concealing the old barricade where, in the golden days of their
                        youth, he had played with Shirley at storming the fort; and Shirley, in
                        these fierce assaults, had usually tumbled over upon the imaginary enemy
                        ahead of him!
                    As he looked about he saw Armitage, his horse at a walk, ride slowly out of
                        the wood at his right. Claiborne jumped up and waved his hat and a
                        rifle-ball flicked his coat collar as lightly as though an unseen hand had
                        tried to brush a bit of dust from it. As he turned toward the marksman
                        behind the cedars three shots, fired in a volley, hummed about him. Then it
                        was very still, with the Sabbath stillness of early morning in the hills,
                        and he heard faintly the mechanical click and snap of the  rifles of Chauvenet's party as they
                        expelled their exploded cartridges and refilled their magazines.
                    "They're really not so badbad luck to them!" he
                        muttered. "I'll be ripe for the little brown men after I
                        get through with this;" and Claiborne laughed a little and watched
                        Armitage's slow advance out into the open.
                    The trio behind the barricade had not yet seen the man they had crossed the
                        sea to kill, as the line of his approach closely paralleled the long
                        irregular wall with its fringe of cedars; but they knew from
                        Claiborne's signal that he was there. The men had picketed their
                        horses back of the little fort, and Claiborne commended their good
                        generalship and wondered what sort of beings they were to risk so much upon
                        so wild an adventure.
                    Armitage rode out farther into the opening, and Claiborne, with his eyes on
                        the barricade, saw a man lean forward through the cedars in an effort to
                        take aim at the horseman. Claiborne drew up his own rifle and blazed away.
                        Bits of stone spurted into the air below the target's elbow, and
                        the man dropped back out of sight without firing.
                    "I've never been the same since that fever,"
                        growled  Claiborne, and snapped out the shell
                        spitefully, and watched for another chance.
                    Being directly in front of the barricade, he was in a position to cover
                        Armitage's advance, and Oscar, meanwhile, had taken his cue from
                        Armitage and ridden slowly into the field from the left. The men behind the
                        cedars fired now from within the enclosure at both men without exposing
                        themselves; but their shots flew wild, and the two horsemen rode up to
                        Claiborne, who had emptied his rifle into the cedars and was reloading.
                    "They are all together again, are they?" asked Armitage,
                        pausing a few yards from Claiborne's rock, his eyes upon the
                        barricade.
                    "The gentleman with the curly hairI drove him in. He is a damned
                        poor shotyes?"
                    Oscar tightened his belt and waited for orders, while Armitage and Claiborne
                        conferred in quick pointed sentences.
                    "Shall we risk a rush or starve them out? I'd like to try
                        hunger on them," said Armitage.
                    "They'll all sneak off over the bridge to-night if we pen
                        them up. If they all go at once they'll break it down, and
                        we'll lose our quarry. But you want to capture
                        themalive?"
                    
                    "I certainly do!" Armitage replied, and turned to laugh at
                        Oscar, who had fired at the barricade from the back of his horse, which was
                        resenting the indignity by trying to throw his rider.
                    The enemy now concentrated a sharp fire upon Armitage, whose horse snorted
                        and pawed the ground as the balls cut the air and earth.
                    "For God's sake, get off that horse, Armitage!"
                        bawled Claiborne, rising upon the rock. "There's no use in
                        wasting yourself that way."
                    "My arm aches and I've got to do something. Let's
                        try storming them just for fun. It's a cavalry stunt, Claiborne,
                        and you can play being the artillery that's supporting our advance.
                        Fall away there, Oscar, about forty yards, and we'll race for it to
                        the wall and over. That barricade isn't as stiff as it looks from
                        this side I know all about it. There are great chunks out of it that
                        can't be seen from this side."
                    "Thank me for that, Armitage. I tumbled down a good many yards of it
                        when I played up here as a kid. Get off that horse, I tell you!
                        You've got a hole in you now! Get down!"
                    "You make me tired, Claiborne. This beautiful row will all be over
                        in a few minutes. I never intended to  waste
                        much time on those fellows when I got them where I wanted
                        them."
                    His left arm hung quite limp at his side and his face was very white. He had
                        dropped his rifle in the road at the moment the ball struck his shoulder,
                        but he still carried his revolver. He nodded to Oscar, and they both
                        galloped forward over the open ground, making straight for the cedar
                        covert.
                    Claiborne was instantly up and away between the two riders. Their bold
                        advance evidently surprised the trio beyond the barricade, who shouted
                        hurried commands to one another as they distributed themselves along the
                        wall and awaited the onslaught. Then they grew still and lay low out of
                        sight as the silent riders approached. The hoofs of the onrushing horses
                        rang now and then on the harsh outcropping rock, and here and there struck
                        fire. Armitage sat erect and steady in his saddle, his horse speeding on in
                        great bounds toward the barricade. His lips moved in a curious stiff
                        fashion, as though he were ill, muttering:
                    "For Austria! For Austria! He bade me do something for the
                        Empire!"
                    Beyond the cedars the trio held their fire, watching  with fascinated eyes the two riders, every instant drawing
                        closer, and the runner who followed them.
                    "They can't jump thisthey'll veer off before they
                        get here," shouted Chauvenet to his comrades. "Wait till
                        they check their horses for the turn."
                    "We are fools. They have got us trapped;" and
                        Durand's hands shook as he restlessly fingered a revolver. The big
                        Servian crouched on his knees near by, his finger on the trigger of his
                        rifle. All three were hatless and unkempt. The wound in Zmai's
                        scalp had broken out afresh, and he had twisted a colored handkerchief about
                        it to stay the bleeding. A hundred yards away the waterfall splashed down
                        the defile and its faint murmur reached them. A wild dove rose ahead of
                        Armitage and flew straight before him over the barricade. The silence grew
                        tense as the horses galloped nearer; the men behind the cedar-lined wall
                        heard only the hollow thump of hoofs and Claiborne's voice calling
                        to Armitage and Oscar, to warm them of his whereabouts.
                    But the eyes of the three conspirators were fixed on Armitage; it was his
                        life they sought; the others did not greatly matter. And so John Armitage
                        rode across the little plain where the Lost Legion had camped for a year at
                        the end of a great war; and as he rode on the 
                        defenders of the boulder barricade saw his white face and noted the useless
                        arm hanging and swaying, and felt, in spite of themselves, the strength of
                        his tall erect figure.
                    Chauvenet, watching the silent rider, said aloud, speaking in German, so that
                        Zmai understood:
                    "It is in the blood; he is like a king."
                    But they could not hear the words that John Armitage kept saying over and
                        over again as he crossed the field:
                    "He bade me do something for Austriafor Austria!"
                    "He is brave, but he is a great fool. When he turns his horse we
                        will fire on him," said Zmai.
                    Their eyes were upon Armitage; and in their intentness they failed to note
                        the increasing pace of Oscar's horse, which was spurting slowly
                        ahead. When they saw that he would first make the sweep which they assumed
                        to be the contemplated strategy of the charging party, they leveled their
                        arms at him, believing that he must soon check his horse. But on he rode,
                        bending forward a little, his rifle held across the saddle in front of
                        him.
                    
                    "Take him first," cried Chauvenet. "Then be ready
                        for Armitage!"
                    Oscar was now turning his horse, but toward them and across
                        Armitage's path, with the deliberate purpose of taking the first
                        fire. Before him rose the cedars that concealed the line of wall; and he saw
                        the blue barrels of the waiting rifles. With a great spurt of speed he cut
                        in ahead of Armitage swiftly and neatly; then on, without a break or a
                        pausenot heeding Armitage's crieson and still on, till twenty, then
                        ten feet lay between him and the wall, at a place where the cedar barrier
                        was thinnest. Then, as his horse crouched and rose, three rifles cracked as
                        one. With a great crash the horse struck the wall and tumbled, rearing and
                        plunging, through the tough cedar boughs. An instant later, near the same
                        spot, Armitage, with better luck clearing the wall, was borne on through the
                        confused line. When he flung himself down and ran back Claiborne had not yet
                        appeared.
                    Oscar had crashed through at a point held by Durand, who was struck down by
                        the horse's forefeet. He lay howling with pain, with the hind
                        quarters of the prostrate beast across his legs. Armitage, running back
                        toward the wall, kicked the revolver from his hand and  left him. Zmai had started to run as Oscar gained the wall and
                        Chauvenet's curses did not halt the Servian when he found Oscar at
                        his heels.
                    Chauvenet stood impassively by the wall, his revolver raised and covering
                        Armitage, who walked slowly and doggedly toward him. The pallor in
                        Armitage's face gave him an unearthly look; he appeared to be
                        trying to force himself to a pace of which his wavering limbs were
                        incapable. At the moment that Claiborne sprang upon the wall behind
                        Chauvenet Armitage swerved and stumbled, then swayed from side to side like
                        a drunken man. His left arm swung limp at his side, and his revolver
                        remained undrawn in his belt. His gray felt hat was twitched to one side of
                        his head, adding a grotesque touch to the impression of drunkenness, and he
                        was talking aloud:
                    "Shoot me, Mr. Chauvenet. Go on and shoot me! I am John Armitage,
                        and I live in Montana, where real people are. Go on and shoot!
                        Winkelried's in jail and the jig's up and the Empire and
                        the silly King are safe. Go on and shoot, I tell you!"
                    He had stumbled on until he was within a dozen steps of Chauvenet, who lifted
                        his revolver until it covered Armitage's head.
                    
                    "Drop that gundrop it damned quick!" and Dick Claiborne
                        swung the butt of his rifle high and brought it down with a crash on
                        Chauvenet's head; then Armitage paused and glanced about and
                        laughed.
                    It was Claiborne who freed Durand from the dead horse, which had received the
                        shots fired at Oscar the moment he rose at the wall. The fight was quite
                        knocked out of the conspirator, and he swore under his breath, cursing the
                        unconscious Chauvenet and the missing Zmai and the ill fortune of the
                        fight.
                    "It's all over but the shoutingwhat's
                        next?" demanded Claiborne.
                    "Tie him upand tie the other one up," said Armitage,
                        staring about queerly. "Where the devil is Oscar?"
                    "He's after the big fellow. You're badly fussed,
                        old man. We've got to get out of this and fix you up."
                    "I'm all right. I've got a hole in my shoulder
                        that feels as big and hot as a blast furnace. But we've got them
                        nailed, and it's all right, old man!"
                    Durand continued to curse things visible and invisible as he rubbed his leg,
                        while Claiborne watched him impatiently.
                    
                    "If you start to run I'll certainly kill you,
                        Monsieur."
                    "We have met, my dear sir, under unfortunate circumstances. You
                        should not take it too much to heart about the potato sack. It was the fault
                        of my dear colleagues. Ah, Armitage, you look rather ill, but I trust you
                        will harbor no harsh feelings."
                    Armitage did not look at him; his eyes were upon the prostrate figure of
                        Chauvenet, who seemed to be regaining his wits. He moaned and opened his
                        eyes.
                    "Search him, Claiborne, to make sure. Then get him on his legs and
                        pinion his arms, and tie the gentlemen together. The bridle on that dead
                        horse is quite the thing."
                    "But, Messieurs," began Durand, who was striving to recover
                        his composure"this is unnecessary. My friend and I are quite
                        willing to give you every assurance of our peaceable
                        intentions."
                    "I don't question it," laughed Claiborne.
                    "But, my dear sir, in America, even in delightful America, the law
                        will protect the citizens of another country."
                    "It will, indeed," and Claiborne grinned, put his revolver
                        into Armitage's hand, and proceeded to cut the  reins from the dead horse. "In America such amiable
                        scoundrels as you are given the freedom of cities, and little children
                        scatter flowers in their path. You ought to write for the funny papers,
                        Monsieur."
                    "I trust your wounds are not serious, my dear Armitage"
                    Armitage, sitting on a boulder, turned his eyes wearily upon Durand, whose
                        wrists Claiborne was knotting together with a strap. The officer spun the
                        man around viciously.
                    "You beast, if you address Mr. Armitage again I'll choke
                        you!"
                    Chauvenet, sitting up and staring dully about, was greeted ironically by
                        Durand:
                    "Prisoners, my dearest Jules; prisoners, do you understand? Will you
                        please arrange with dear Armitage to let us go home and be
                        good?"
                    Claiborne emptied the contents of Durand's pockets upon the ground
                        and tossed a flask to Armitage.
                    "We will discuss matters at the bungalow. They always go to the
                        nearest farm-house to sign the treaty of peace. Let us do everything
                        according to the best traditions."
                    
                    A moment later Oscar ran in from the direction of the gap, to find the work
                        done and the party ready to leave.
                    "Where is the Servian?" demanded Armitage.
                    The soldier saluted, glanced from Chauvenet to Durand, and from Claiborne to
                        Armitage.
                    "He will not come back," said the sergeant quietly.
                    "That is bad," remarked Armitage. "Take my horse
                        and ride down to Storm Springs and tell Baron von Marhof and Judge Claiborne
                        that Captain Claiborne has found John Armitage, and that he presents his
                        compliments and wishes them to come to Mr. Armitage's house at
                        once. Tell them that Captain Claiborne sent you and that he wants them to
                        come back with you immediately."
                    "But Armitagenot Marhoffor God's sake, not
                        Marhof." Chauvenet staggered to his feet and his voice choked as he
                        muttered his appeal. "Not Marhof!"
                    "We can fix this among ourselvesjust wait a little, till we can talk
                        over our affairs. You have quite the wrong impression of us, I assure you,
                        Messieurs," protested Durand.
                    "That is your misfortune! Thanks for the brandy, Monsieur Durand. I
                        feel quite restored," said Armitage, 
                        rising; and the color swept into his face and he spoke with quick
                        decision.
                    "Oh, Claiborne, will you kindly give me the time?"
                    Claiborne laughed. It was a laugh of real relief at the change in
                        Armitage's tone.
                    "It's a quarter of seven. This little scrap didn't
                        take as much time as you thought it would."
                    Oscar had mounted Armitage's horse and Claiborne stopped him as he
                        rode past on his way to the road.
                    "After you deliver Mr. Armitage's message, get a doctor and
                        tell him to be in a hurry about getting here."
                    "No!" began Armitage. "Good Lord, no! We are not
                        going to advertise this mess. You will spoil it all. I don't
                        propose to be arrested and put in jail, and a doctor would blab it all. I
                        tell you, no!"
                    "Oscar, go to the hotel at the Springs and ask for Doctor Bledsoe.
                        He's an army surgeon on leave. Tell him I want him to bring his
                        tools and come to me at the bungalow. Now go!"
                    The conspirators' horses were brought up and Claiborne put Armitage
                        upon the best of them.
                    "Don't treat me as though I were a sick priest! I tell you,
                        I feel bully! If the prisoners will kindly walk  ahead of us, we'll graciously ride behind. Or we might put them
                        both on one horse! Forward!"
                    Chauvenet and Durand, as they marched ahead of their captors, divided the
                        time between execrating each other and trying to make terms with Armitage.
                        The thought of being haled before Baron von Marhof gave them great
                        concern.
                    "Wait a few hours, Armitagelet us sit down and talk it all over.
                        We're not as black as your imagination paints us!"
                    "Save your breath! You've had your fun so far, and now
                        I'm going to have mine. You fellows are all right to sit in dark
                        rooms and plot murder and treason; but you're not made for work in
                        the open. Forward!"
                    They were a worn company that drew up at the empty bungalow, where the lamp
                        and candles flickered eerily. On the table still lay the sword, the cloak,
                        the silver box, the insignia of noble orders.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    "WHO ARE YOU, JOHN ARMITAGE?"
                    
                        
                            "Morbleu, Monsieur, you give me too much
                            majesty," said the Prince.The History of Henry
                                Esmond.
                        
                    
                    "These gentlemen doubtless wish to conferlet them sequester
                        themselves!" and Armitage waved his hand to the line of empty
                        sleeping-rooms. "I believe Monsieur Durand already knows the way
                        abouthe may wish to explore my trunks again," and Armitage bowed to
                        the two men, who, with their wrists tied behind them and a strap linking
                        them together, looked the least bit absurd.
                    "Now, Claiborne, that foolish Oscar has a first-aid kit of some sort
                        that he used on me a couple of weeks ago. Dig it out of his simple cell back
                        there and we'll clear up this mess in my shoulder. Twice on the
                        same side,but I believe they actually cracked a bone this
                        time."
                    He lay down on a long bench and Claiborne cut off his coat.
                    
                    "I'd like to hold a little private execution for
                        this," growled the officer. "A little lower and it would
                        have caught you in the heart."
                    "Don't be spiteful! I'm as sound as wheat. We have
                        them down and the victory is ours. The great fun is to come when the good
                        Baron von Marhof gets here. If I were dying I believe I could hold on for
                        that."
                    "You're not going to die, thank God! Just a minute more
                        until I pack this shoulder with cotton. I can't do anything for
                        that smashed bone, but Bledsoe is the best surgeon in the army, and
                        he'll fix you up in a jiffy."
                    "That will do now. I must have on a coat when our honored guests
                        arrive, even if we omit one sleeveyes, I guess we'll have to,
                        though it does seem a bit affected. Dig out the brandy bottle from the
                        cupboard there in the corner, and then kindly brush my hair and straighten
                        up the chairs a bit. You might even toss a stick on the fire. That potato
                        sack you may care to keep as a souvenir."
                    "Be quiet, now! Remember, you are my prisoner, Mr.
                        Armitage."
                    "I am, I am! But I will wager ten courses at Sherry's the
                        Baron will be glad to let me off."
                    He laughed softly and began repeating:
                    
                    
                        "With their wrists tied behind them, they looked
                            the least bit absurd Page 356
                        
                    
                    
                    "'Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the heir
                        apparent? Should I turn upon the true prince? Why, thou knowest I am as
                        valiant as Hercules; but beware instinct; the lion will not touch the true
                        prince. Instinct is a great matter; I was a coward on instinct. I shall
                        think the better of myself and thee during my life; I for a valiant lion,
                        and thou for a true prince.'"
                    Claiborne forced him to lie down on the bench, and threw a blanket over him,
                        and in a moment saw that he slept. In an inner room the voices of the
                        prisoners occasionally rose shrilly as they debated their situation and
                        prospects. Claiborne chewed a cigar and watched and waited. Armitage wakened
                        suddenly, sat up and called to Claiborne with a laugh:
                    "I had a perfectly bully dream, old man. I dreamed that I saw the
                        ensign of Austria-Hungary flying from the flag-staff of this shanty; and by
                        Jove, I'll take the hint! We owe it to the distinguished Ambassador
                        who now approaches to fly his colors over the front door. We ought to have a
                        trumpeter to herald his arrivalbut the white and red ensign with the golden
                        crownit's in the leather-covered trunk in my roomthe one with the
                        most steamer labels on itgo bring it, Claiborne,  and we'll throw it to the free airs of Virginia. And
                        be quickthey ought to be here by this time!"
                    He stood in the door and watched Claiborne haul up the flag, and he made a
                        mockery of saluting it as it snapped out in the fresh morning air.
                    "The Port of Missing Men! It was designed to be extra-territorial,
                        and there's no treason in hauling up an alien flag," and
                        his high spirits returned, and he stalked back to the fireplace, chaffing
                        Claiborne and warning him against ever again fighting under an unknown
                        banner.
                    "Here they are," called Claiborne, and flung open the door
                        as Shirley, her father and Baron von Marhof rode up under the billowing
                        ensign. Dick stepped out to meet them and answer their questions.
                    "Mr. Armitage is here. He has been hurt and we have sent for a
                        doctor; but"and he looked at Shirley.
                    "If you will do me the honor to enterall of you!" and
                        Armitage came out quickly and smiled upon them.
                    "We had started off to look for Dick when we met your man,"
                        said Shirley, standing on the steps, rein in hand.
                    
                    "What has happened, and how was Armitage injured?" demanded
                        Judge Claiborne.
                    "There was a battle," replied Dick, grinning, "and
                        Mr. Armitage got in the way of a bullet."
                    Her ride through the keen morning air had flooded Shirley's cheeks
                        with color. She wore a dark blue skirt and a mackintosh with the collar
                        turned up about her neck, and a red scarf at her throat matched the band of
                        her soft felt hat. She drew off her gauntlets and felt in her pocket for a
                        handkerchief with which to brush some splashes of mud that had dried on her
                        cheek, and the action was so feminine, and marked so abrupt a transition
                        from the strange business of the night and morning, that Armitage and Dick
                        laughed and Judge Claiborne turned upon them frowningly.
                    Shirley had been awake much of the night. On returning from the ball at the
                        inn she found Dick still absent, and when at six o'clock he had not
                        returned she called her father and they had set off together for the hills,
                        toward which, the stablemen reported, Dick had ridden. They had met Oscar
                        just outside the Springs, and had returned to the hotel for Baron von
                        Marhof. Having performed her office as guide and satisfied herself that Dick
                        was safe, she felt her conscience eased, and 
                        could see no reason why she should not ride home and leave the men to their
                        council. Armitage saw her turn to her horse, whose nose was exploring her
                        mackintosh pockets, and he stepped quickly toward her.
                    "You see, Miss Claiborne, your brother is quite safe, but I very
                        much hope you will not run away. There are some things to be explained which
                        it is only fair you should hear."
                    "Wait, Shirley, and we will all go down together," said
                        Judge Claiborne reluctantly.
                    Baron von Marhof, very handsome and distinguished, but mud-splashed, had tied
                        his horse to a post in the driveway, and stood on the veranda steps, his hat
                        in his hand, staring, a look of bewilderment on his face. Armitage,
                        bareheaded, still in his riding leggings, his trousers splashed with mud,
                        his left arm sleeveless and supported by a handkerchief swung from his neck,
                        shook hands with Judge Claiborne.
                    "Baron von Marhof, allow me to present Mr. Armitage," said
                        Dick, and Armitage walked to the steps and bowed. The Ambassador did not
                        offer his hand.
                    "Won't you please come in?" said Armitage, smiling
                        upon them, and when they were seated he took his stand  by the fireplace, hesitated a moment, as though weighing his
                        words, and began:
                    "Baron von Marhof, the events that have led to this meeting have
                        been somewhat more than unusualthey are unique. And complications have
                        arisen which require prompt and wise action. For this reason I am glad that
                        we shall have the benefit of Judge Claiborne's
                        advice."
                    "Judge Claiborne is the counsel of our embassy," said the
                        Ambassador. His gaze was fixed intently on Armitage's face, and he
                        hitched himself forward in his chair impatiently, grasping his crop
                        nervously across his knees.
                    "You were anxious to find me, Baron, and I may have seemed hard to
                        catch, but I believe we have been working at cross-purposes to serve the
                        same interests."
                    The Baron nodded.
                    "Yes, I dare say," he remarked dryly.
                    "And some other gentlemen, of not quite your own standing, have at
                        the same time been seeking me. It will give me great pleasure to present one
                        of themone, I believe, will be enough. Mr. Claiborne, will you kindly allow
                        Monsieur Jules Chauvenet to stand in the door for a moment? I want to ask
                        him a question."
                    
                    Shirley, sitting farthest from Armitage, folded her hands upon the long table
                        and looked toward the door into which her brother vanished. Then Jules
                        Chauvenet stood before them all, and as his eyes met hers for a second the
                        color rose to his face, and he broke out angrily:
                    "This is infamous! This is an outrage! Baron von Marhof, as an
                        Austrian subject, I appeal to you for protection from this
                        man!"
                    "Monsieur, you shall have all the protection Baron von Marhof cares
                        to give you; but first I wish to ask you a questionjust one. You followed me
                        to America with the fixed purpose of killing me. You sent a Servian assassin
                        after mea fellow with a reputation for doing dirty workand he tried to stick
                        a knife into me on the deck of the King Edward. I shall
                        not recite my subsequent experiences with him or with you and Monsieur
                        Durand. You announced at Captain Claiborne's table at the Army and
                        Navy Club in Washington that I was an impostor, and all the time, Monsieur,
                        you have really believed me to be some onesome one in
                        particular."
                    Armitage's eyes glittered and his voice faltered with intensity as
                        he uttered these last words. Then he thrust his hand into his coat pocket,
                        stepped back, and concluded:
                    
                    "Who am I, Monsieur?"
                    Chauvenet shifted uneasily from one foot to another under the gaze of the
                        five people who waited for his answer; then he screamed shrilly:
                    "You are the devilan impostor, a liar, a thief!"
                    Baron von Marhof leaped to his feet and roared at Chauvenet in English:
                    "Who is this man? Whom do you believe him to be?"
                    "Answer and be quick about it!" snapped Claiborne.
                    "I tell you"began Chauvenet fiercely.
                    
                        "Who am I?" asked Armitage again.
                    "I don't know who you are"
                    "You do not! You certainly do not!" laughed Armitage;
                        "but whom have you believed me to be, Monsieur?"
                    "I thought"
                    "Yes; you thought"
                    "I thoughtthere seemed reasons to believe"
                    "Yes; and you believe it; go on!"
                    Chauvenet's eyes blinked for a moment as he considered the
                        difficulties of his situation. The presence of Baron von Marhof sobered him.
                        America might not, after all, be so safe a place from which to conduct an
                        Old World conspiracy, and this incident must, if possible,  be turned to his own account. He addressed
                        the Baron in German:
                    "This man is a designing plotter; he is bent upon mischief and
                        treason; he has contrived an attempt against the noble ruler of our nationhe
                        is a menace to the throne"
                    "Who is he?" demanded Marhof impatiently; and his eyes and
                        the eyes of all fell upon Armitage.
                    "I tell you we found him lurking about in Europe, waiting his
                        chance, and we drove him awaydrove him here to watch him. See these
                        thingsthat swordthose orders! They belonged to the Archduke Karl. Look at
                        them and see that it is true! I tell you we have rendered Austria a high
                        service. One deathone deathat Viennaand this son of a madman would be king!
                        He is Frederick Augustus, the son of the Archduke Karl!"
                    The room was very still as the last words rang out. The old
                        Ambassador's gaze clung to Armitage; he stepped nearer, the
                        perspiration breaking out upon his brow, and his lips trembled as he
                        faltered:
                    "He would be king; he would be king!"
                    Then Armitage spoke sharply to Claiborne.
                    "That will do. The gentleman may retire now."
                    
                    As Claiborne thrust Chauvenet out of the room, Armitage turned to the little
                        company, smiling.
                    "I am not Frederick Augustus, the son of the Archduke
                        Karl," he said quietly; "nor did I ever pretend that I
                        was, except to lead those men on in their conspiracy. The cigarette case
                        that caused so much trouble at Mr. Claiborne's supper-party belongs
                        to me. Here it is."
                    The old Ambassador snatched it from him eagerly.
                    "This devicethe falcon poised upon a silver helmet! You have much to
                        explain, Monsieur."
                    "It is the coat-of-arms of the house of Schomburg. The case belonged
                        to Frederick Augustus, Karl's son; and this sword was his; and
                        these orders and that cloak lying yonderall were his. They were gifts from
                        his father. And believe me, my friends, I came by them
                        honestly."
                    The Baron bent over the table and spilled the orders from their silver box
                        and scanned them eagerly. The colored ribbons, the glittering jewels, held
                        the eyes of all. Many of them were the insignia of rare orders no longer
                        conferred. There were the crown and pendant cross of the Invincible Knights
                        of Zaringer; the white falcon upon a silver helmet, swung from a ribbon of
                             cloth of goldthe familiar device of the
                        house of Schomburg, the gold Maltese cross of the Chevaliers of the Blessed
                        Sacrament; the crossed swords above an iron crown of the Ancient Legion of
                        Saint Michael and All Angels; and the full-rigged ship pendant from triple
                        anchorsthe decoration of the rare Spanish order of the Star of the Seven
                        Seas. Silence held the company as the Ambassador's fine old hands
                        touched one after another. It seemed to Shirley that these baubles again
                        bound the New World, the familiar hills of home, the Virginia shores, to the
                        wallowing caravels of Columbus.
                    The Ambassador closed the silver box the better to examine the white falcon
                        upon its lid. Then he swung about and confronted Armitage.
                    "Where is he, Monsieur?" he asked, his voice sunk to a
                        whisper, his eyes sweeping the doors and windows.
                    "The Archduke Karl is dead; his son Frederick Augustus, whom these
                        conspirators have imagined me to behe, too, is dead."
                    "You are quite sureyou are quite sure, Mr. Armitage?"
                    "I am quite sure."
                    "That is not enough! We have a right to ask more than your
                        word!"
                    
                    "No, it is not enough," replied Armitage quietly.
                        "Let me make my story brief. I need not recite the peculiarities of
                        the Archdukehis dislike of conventional society, his contempt for sham and
                        pretense. After living a hermit life at one of the smallest and most obscure
                        of the royal estates for several years, he vanished utterly. That was
                        fifteen years ago."
                    "Yes; he was madquite mad," blurted the Baron.
                    "That was the common impression. He took his oldest son and went
                        into exile. Conjectures as to his whereabouts have filled the newspapers
                        sporadically ever since. He has been reported as appearing in the South Sea
                        Islands, in India, in Australia, in various parts of this country. In truth
                        he came directly to America and established himself as a farmer in western
                        Canada. His son was killed in an accident; the Archduke died within the
                        year."
                    Judge Claiborne bent forward in his chair as Armitage paused.
                    "What proof have you of this story, Mr. Armitage?"
                    "I am prepared for such a question, gentlemen. His identity I may
                        establish by various documents which he gave me for the purpose. For greater
                        security I locked them in a safety box of the Bronx Loan and Trust  Company in New York. To guard against
                        accidents I named you jointly with myself as entitled to the contents of
                        that box. Here is the key."
                    As he placed the slim bit of steel on the table and stepped back to his old
                        position on the hearth, they saw how white he was, and that his hand shook,
                        and Dick begged him to sit down.
                    "Yes; will you not be seated, Monsieur?" said the Baron
                        kindly.
                    "No; I shall have finished in a moment. The Archduke gave those
                        documents to me, and with them a paper that will explain much in the life of
                        that unhappy gentleman. It contains a disclosure that might in certain
                        emergencies be of very great value. I beg of you, believe that he was not a
                        fool, and not a madman. He sought exile for reasonsfor the reason that his
                        son Francis, who has been plotting the murder of the new Emperor-king, is not his son!"
                    
                    "What!" roared the Baron.
                    "It is as I have said. The faithlessness of his wife, and not
                        madness, drove him into exile. He intrusted that paper to me and swore me to
                        carry it to Vienna if Francis ever got too near the throne. It is certified
                        by half a dozen officials authorized to administer oaths in  Canada, though they, of course, never knew
                        the contents of the paper to which they swore him. He even carried it to New
                        York and swore to it there before the consul-general of Austria-Hungary in
                        that city. There was a certain grim humor in him; he said he wished to have
                        the affidavit bear the seal of his own country, and the consul-general
                        assumed that it was a document of mere commercial
                        significance."
                    The Baron looked at the key; he touched the silver box; his hand rested for a
                        moment on the sword.
                    "It is a marvelous storyit is wonderful! Can it be truecan it be
                        true?" murmured the Ambassador.
                    "The documents will be the best evidence. We can settle the matter
                        in twenty-four hours," said Judge Claiborne.
                    "You will pardon me for seeming incredulous, sir," said the
                        Baron, "but it is all so extraordinary. And these men, these
                        prisoners"
                    "They have pursued me under the impression that I am Frederick
                        Augustus. Oddly enough, I, too, am Frederick Augustus," and
                        Armitage smiled. "I was within a few months of his age, and I had a
                        little brush with Chauvenet and Durand in Geneva in which they captured my
                        cigarette caseit had belonged to Frederick, 
                        and the Archduke gave it to meand my troubles began. The Emperor-king was
                        old and ill; the disorders in Hungary were to cloak the assassination of his
                        successor; then the Archduke Francis, Karl's reputed son, was to be
                        installed upon the throne."
                    "Yes; there has been a conspiracy; I"
                    "And there have been conspirators! Two of them are safely behind
                        that door; and, somewhat through my efforts, their chief, Winkelried, should
                        now be under arrest in Vienna. I have had reasons, besides my pledge to
                        Archduke Karl, for taking an active part in these affairs. A year ago I gave
                        Karl's repudiation of his second son to Count Ferdinand von
                        Stroebel, the prime minister. The statement was stolen from him for the
                        Winkelried conspirators by these men we now have locked up in this
                        house."
                    The Ambassador's eyes blazed with excitement as these statements
                        fell one by one from Armitage's lips; but Armitage went on:
                    "I trust that my plan for handling these men will meet with your
                        approval. They have chartered the George W. Custis, a
                        fruit-carrying steamer lying at Morgan's wharf in Baltimore, in
                        which they expected to make off after they had finished with me. At one  time they had some idea of kidnapping me; and
                        it isn't my fault they failed at that game. But I leave it to you,
                        gentlemen, to deal with them. I will suggest, however, that the presence
                        just now in the West Indies, of the cruiser Sophia
                            Margaret, flying the flag of Austria-Hungary, may be
                        suggestive."
                    He smiled at the quick glance that passed between the Ambassador and Judge
                        Claiborne.
                    Then Baron von Marhof blurted out the question that was uppermost in the
                        minds of all.
                    "Who are you, John Armitage?"
                    And Armitage answered, quite simply and in the quiet tone that he had used
                        throughout:
                    "I am Frederick Augustus von Stroebel, the son of your sister and of
                        the Count Ferdinand von Stroebel. The Archduke's son and I were
                        school-fellows and playmates; you remember as well as I my father's
                        place near the royal lands. The Archduke talked much of democracy and the
                        New World, and used to joke about the divine right of kings. Let me make my
                        story shortI found out their plan of flight and slipped away with them. It
                        was believed that I had been carried away by gipsies."
                    
                    "Yes, that is true; it is all true! And you never saw your fatheryou
                        never went to him?"
                    "I was only thirteen when I ran away with Karl. When I appeared
                        before my father in Paris last year he would have sent me away in anger, if
                        it had not been that I knew matters of importance to AustriaAustria, always
                        Austria!"
                    "Yes; that was quite like him," said the Ambassador.
                        "He served his country with a passionate devotion. He hated
                        Americahe distrusted the whole democratic idea. It was that which pointed
                        his anger against youthat you should have chosen to live here."
                    "Then when I saw him at Genevathat last interviewhe told me that
                        Karl's statement had been stolen, and he had his spies abroad
                        looking for the thieves. He was very bitter against me. It was only a few
                        hours before he was killed, as a part of the Winkelried conspiracy. He had
                        given his life for Austria. He told me never to see him againnever to claim
                        my own name until I had done something for Austria. And I went to Vienna and
                        knelt in the crowd at his funeral, and no one knew me, and it hurt me, oh,
                        it hurt me to know that he had grieved for me; that he had wanted a son  to carry on his own work, while I had grown
                        away from the whole idea of such labor as his. And now"
                    He faltered, his hoarse voice broke with stress of feeling, and his pallor
                        deepened.
                    "It was not my faultit was really not my fault! I did the best I
                        could, and, by God, I've got them in the room there where they
                        can't do any harm!and Dick Claiborne, you are the finest fellow in
                        the world, and the squarest and bravest, and I want to take your hand before
                        I go to sleep; for I'm sickyes, I'm sickand sleepyand
                        you'd better haul down that flag over the doorit's
                        treason, I tell you!and if you see Shirley, tell her I'm John
                        Armitagetell her I'm John Armitage, John Arm"
                    The room and its figures rushed before his eyes, and as he tried to stand
                        erect his knees crumpled under him, and before they could reach him he sank
                        to the floor with a moan. As they crowded about he stirred slightly, sighed
                        deeply, and lay perfectly still.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    DECENT BURIAL
                    
                        
                            To-morrow? 'Tis not ours to know
                            That we again shall see the flowers.
                            To-morrow is the gods'but, oh!
                            To-day is ours.
                            
                                C. E. Merrill, Jr.
                            
                        
                    
                    Claiborne called Oscar through the soft dusk of the April evening. The
                        phalanx of stars marched augustly across the heavens. Claiborne lifted his
                        face gratefully to the cool night breeze, for he was worn with the stress
                        and anxiety of the day, and there remained much to do. The bungalow had been
                        speedily transformed into a hospital. One nurse, borrowed from a
                        convalescent patient at the Springs, was to be reinforced by another
                        summoned by wire from Washington. The Ambassador's demand to be
                        allowed to remove Armitage to his own house at the Springs had been promptly
                        rejected by the surgeon. A fever had hold of John Armitage, who was ill
                        enough without the wound in his shoulder, and 
                        the surgeon moved his traps to the bungalow and took charge of the case.
                        Oscar had brought Claiborne's bag, and all was now in readiness for
                        the night.
                    Oscar's erect figure at salute and his respectful voice brought
                        Claiborne down from the stars.
                    "We can get rid of the prisoners to-nightyes?"
                    "At midnight two secret service men will be here from Washington to
                        travel with them to Baltimore to their boat. The Baron and my father
                        arranged it over the telephone from the Springs. The prisoners understand
                        that they are in serious trouble, and have agreed to go quietly. The
                        government agents are discreet men. You brought up the
                        buckboard?"
                    "But the men should be hangedfor they shot our captain, and he may
                        die."
                    The little man spoke with sad cadence. A pathos in his erect, sturdy figure,
                        his lowered tone as he referred to Armitage, touched Claiborne.
                    "He will get well, Oscar. Everything will seem brighter to-morrow.
                        You had better sleep until it is time to drive to the train."
                    Oscar stepped nearer and his voice sank to a whisper.
                    "I have not forgotten the tall man who died; it is not  well for him to go unburied. You are not a
                        Catholicno?"
                    "You need not tell me howor anything about itbut you are sure he is
                        quite dead?"
                    "He is dead; he was a bad man, and died very terribly,"
                        said Oscar, and he took off his hat and drew his sleeve across his forehead.
                        "I will tell you just how it was. When my horse took the wall and
                        got their bullets and tumbled down dead, the big man they called Zmai saw
                        how it was, that we were all coming over after them, and ran. He kept
                        running through the brambles and over the stones, and I thought he would
                        soon turn and we might have a fight, but he did not stop; and I could not
                        let him get away. It was our captain who said, 'We must take them
                        prisoners,' was it not so?"
                    "Yes; that was Mr. Armitage's wish."
                    "Then I saw that we were going toward the bridge, the one they do
                        not use, there at the deep ravine. I had crossed it once and knew that it
                        was weak and shaky, and I slacked up and watched him. He kept on, and just
                        before he came to it, when I was very close to him, for he was a slow
                        runneryes? being so big and clumsy, he turned and shot at me with his
                        revolver, but he was in a hurry and missed; but he ran on. His feet struck
                        the  planks of the bridge with a great jar and
                        creaking, but he kept running and stumbled and fell once with a mad clatter
                        of the planks. He was a coward with a heart of water, and would not stop
                        when I called, and come back for a little fight. The wires of the bridge
                        hummed and the bridge swung and creaked. When he was almost midway of the
                        bridge the big wires that held it began to shriek out of the old posts that
                        held themthough I had not touched themand it seemed many years that passed
                        while the whole of it dangled in the air like a bird-nest in a storm; and
                        the creek down below laughed at that big coward. I still heard his hoofs
                        thumping the planks, until the bridge dropped from under him and left him
                        for a long second with his arms and legs flying in the air. Yes; it was very
                        horrible to see. And then his great body went down, downGod! It was a very
                        dreadful way for a wicked man to die."
                    And Oscar brushed his hat with his sleeve and looked away at the purple and
                        gray ridges and their burden of stars.
                    "Yes, it must have been terrible," said Claiborne.
                    "But now he can not be left to lie down there on the rocks, though
                        he was so wicked and died like a beast. I am a bad Catholic, but when I was
                        a boy I used to serve  mass, and it is not
                        well for a man to lie in a wild place where the buzzards will find
                        him."
                    "But you can not bring a priest. Great harm would be done if news of
                        this affair were to get abroad. You understand that what has passed here
                        must never be known by the outside world. My father and Baron von Marhof
                        have counseled that, and you may be sure there are reasons why these things
                        must be kept quiet, or they would seek the law's aid at
                        once."
                    "Yes; I have been a soldier; but after this little war I shall bury
                        the dead. In an hour I shall be back to drive the buckboard to Lamar
                        station."
                    Claiborne looked at his watch.
                    "I will go with you," he said.
                    They started through the wood toward the Port of Missing Men; and together
                        they found rough niches in the side of the gap, down which they made their
                        way toilsomely to the boulder-lined stream that laughed and tumbled foamily
                        at the bottom of the defile. They found the wreckage of the slender bridge,
                        broken to fragments where the planking had struck the rocks. It was very
                        quiet in the mountain cleft, and the stars seemed withdrawn to newer and
                        deeper arches of heaven as they sought in the debris for the Servian. They
                        kindled a  fire of twigs to give light for
                        their search, and soon found the great body lying quite at the edge of the
                        torrent, with arms flung out as though to ward off a blow. The face twisted
                        with terror and the small evil eyes, glassed in death, were not good to
                        see.
                    "He was a wicked man, and died in sin. I will dig a grave for him by
                        these bushes."
                    When the work was quite done, Oscar took off his hat and knelt down by the
                        side of the strange grave and bowed his head in silence for a moment. Then
                        he began to repeat words and phrases of prayers he had known as a peasant
                        boy in a forest over seas, and his voice rose to a kind of chant. Such
                        petitions of the Litany of the Saints as he could recall he uttered, his
                        voice rising mournfully among the rocks.
                    
                        "From all evil; from all sin; from Thy wrath; from
                            sudden and unprovided death, O Lord, deliver us!"
                    
                    Then he was silent, though in the wavering flame of the fire Claiborne saw
                        that his lips still muttered prayers for the Servian's soul. When
                        again his words grew audible he was saying:
                    
                        "That Thou wouldst not deliver it into the hand of the
                            enemy, nor forget it unto the end, but wouldst command it to be received
                            by the Holy Angels, and conducted
                        
                        to paradise, its true country; that, as in Thee it hath hoped
                            and believed, it may not suffer the pains of hell, but may take
                            possession of eternal joys."
                    
                    He made the sign of the cross, rose, brushed the dirt from his knees and put
                        on his hat.
                    "He was a coward and died an ugly death, but I am glad I did not
                        kill him."
                    "Yes, we were spared murder," said Claiborne; and when they
                        had trodden out the fire and scattered the embers into the stream, they
                        climbed the steep side of the gap and turned toward the bungalow. Oscar
                        trudged silently at Claiborne's side, and neither spoke. Both were
                        worn to the point of exhaustion by the events of the long day; the stubborn
                        patience and fidelity of the little man touched a chord in Claiborne. Almost
                        unconsciously he threw his arm across Oscar's shoulders and walked
                        thus beside him as they traversed the battle-field of the morning.
                    "You knew Mr. Armitage when he was a boy?" asked
                        Claiborne.
                    "Yes; in the Austrian forest, on his father's placethe
                        Count Ferdinand von Stroebel. The young captain's mother died when
                        he was a child; his father was the  great
                        statesman, and did much for the Schomburgs and Austria; but it did not aid
                        his dispositionno?"
                    The secret service men had come by way of the Springs, and were waiting at
                        the bungalow to report to Claiborne. They handed him a sealed packet of
                        instructions from the Secretary of War. The deportation of Chauvenet and
                        Durand was to be effected at once under Claiborne's direction, and
                        he sent Oscar to the stables for the buckboard and sat down on the veranda
                        to discuss the trip to Baltimore with the two secret agents. They were to
                        gather up the personal effects of the conspirators at the tavern on the
                        drive to Lamar. The rooms occupied by Chauvenet at Washington had already
                        been ransacked and correspondence and memoranda of a startling character
                        seized. Chauvenet was known to be a professional blackmailer and plotter of
                        political mischief, and the embassy of Austria-Hungary had identified Durand
                        as an ex-convict who had only lately been implicated in the launching of a
                        dangerous issue of forged bonds in Paris. Claiborne had been carefully
                        coached by his father, and he answered the questions of the officers
                        readily:
                    "If these men give you any trouble, put them under arrest in the
                        nearest jail. We can bring them back here  for
                        attempted murder, if nothing worse; and these mountain juries will see that
                        they're put away for a long time. You will accompany them on board
                        the George W. Custis, and stay with them until you reach
                        Cape Charles. A lighthouse tender will follow the steamer down Chesapeake
                        Bay and take you off. If these gentlemen do not give the proper orders to
                        the captain of the steamer, you will put them all under arrest and signal
                        the tender."
                    Chauvenet and Durand had been brought out and placed in the buckboard, and
                        these orders were intended for their ears.
                    "We will waive our right to a writ of habeas
                            corpus," remarked Durand cheerfully, as Claiborne flashed
                        a lantern over them. "Dearest Jules, we shall not forget Monsieur
                        Claiborne's courteous treatment of us."
                    "Shut up!" snapped Chauvenet.
                    "You will both of you do well to hold your tongues,"
                        remarked Claiborne dryly. "One of these officers understands
                        French, and I assure you they can not be bought or frightened. If you try to
                        bolt, they will certainly shoot you. If you make a row about going on board
                        your boat at Baltimore, remember they are government agents, with ample
                        authority for any emergency,  and that Baron
                        von Marhof has the American State Department at his back."
                    "You are wonderful, Captain Claiborne," drawled Durand.
                    "There is no trap in this? You give us the freedom of the
                        sea?" demanded Chauvenet.
                    "I gave you the option of a Virginia prison for conspiracy to
                        murder, or a run for your life in your own boat beyond the Capes. You have
                        chosen the second alternative; if you care to change your
                        decision"
                    Oscar gathered up the reins and waited for the word. Claiborne held his watch
                        to the lantern.
                    "We must not miss our train, my dear Jules!" said
                        Durand.
                    "Bah, Claiborne! this is ungenerous of you. You know well enough
                        this is an unlawful proceedingkidnapping us this waywithout opportunity for
                        counsel."
                    "And without benefit of clergy," laughed Claiborne.
                        "Is it a dash for the sea, or the nearest county jail? If you want
                        to tackle the American courts, we have nothing to venture. The Winkelried
                        crowd are safe behind the bars in Vienna, and publicity can do us no
                        harm."
                    "Drive on!" ejaculated Chauvenet.
                    As the buckboard started, Baron von Marhof and 
                        Judge Claiborne rode up, and watched the departure from their saddles.
                    "That's the end of one chapter," remarked Judge
                        Claiborne.
                    "They're glad enough to go," said Dick.
                        "What's the latest word from Vienna?"
                    "The conspirators were taken quietly; about one hundred arrests have
                        been made in all, and the Hungarian uprising has played out utterlythanks to
                        Mr. John Armitage," and the Baron sighed and turned toward the
                        bungalow.
                    When the two diplomats rode home half an hour later, it was with the
                        assurance that Armitage's condition was satisfactory.
                    "He is a hardy plant," said the surgeon, "and will
                        pull through."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    JOHN ARMITAGE
                    
                        If so be, you can discover a mode of life more desirable than the being a
                            king, for those who shall be kings; then the true Ideal of the State
                            will become a possibility; but not otherwise.Marius the
                                Epicurean.
                        
                    
                    June roses overflowed the veranda rail of Baron von Marhof's cottage
                        at Storm Springs. The Ambassador and his friend and counsel, Judge Hilton
                        Claiborne, sat in a cool corner with a wicker table between them. The
                        representative of Austria-Hungary shook his glass with an impatience that
                        tinkled the ice cheerily.
                    "He's as obstinate as a mule!"
                    Judge Claiborne laughed at the Baron's vehemence.
                    "He comes by it honestly. I can imagine his father doing the same
                        thing under similar circumstances."
                    "What! This rot about democracy! This light tossing away of an
                        honest title, a respectable fortune! My dear sir, there is such a thing as
                        carrying democracy too far!"
                    
                    "I suppose there is; but he's of age; he's a grown
                        man. I don't see what you're going to do about
                        it."
                    "Neither do I! But think what he's putting aside. The
                        boy's cleverhe has courage and brains, as we know; he could have
                        positionthe home government is under immense obligations to him. A word from
                        me to Vienna and his services to the crown would be acknowledged in the most
                        generous fashion. And with his father's memory and reputation
                        behind him"
                    "But the idea of reward doesn't appeal to him. We canvassed
                        that last night."
                    "There's one thing I haven't dared to ask him: to
                        take his own nameto become Frederick Augustus von Stroebel, even if he
                        doesn't want his father's money or the title. Quite likely
                        he will refuse that, too."
                    "It is possible. Most things seem possible with
                        Armitage."
                    "It's simply providential that he hasn't become a
                        citizen of your republic. That would have been the last straw!"
                    They rose as Armitage called to them from a French window near by.
                    "Good afternoon, gentlemen! When two diplomats  get their heads together on a summer afternoon, the universe
                        is in danger."
                    He came toward them hatless, but trailing a stick that had been the prop of
                        his later convalescence. His blue serge coat, a neglige shirt and duck
                        trousers had been drawn a few days before from the trunks brought by Oscar
                        from the bungalow. He was clean-shaven for the first time since his illness,
                        and the two men looked at him with a new interest. His deepened temples and
                        lean cheeks and hands told their story; but his step was regaining its old
                        assurance, and his eyes were clear and bright. He thrust the little stick
                        under his arm and stood erect, gazing at the near gardens and then at the
                        hills. The wind tumbled his brown newly-trimmed hair, and caught the loose
                        ends of his scarf and whipped them free.
                    "Sit down. We were just talking of you. You are getting so much
                        stronger every day that we can't be sure of you long,"
                        said the Baron.
                    "You have spoiled me,I am not at all anxious to venture back into
                        the world. These Virginia gardens are a dream world, where nothing is really
                        quite true."
                    "Something must be done about your father's estate soon. It
                        is yours, waiting and ready."
                    
                    The Baron bent toward the young man anxiously.
                    Armitage shook his head slowly, and clasped the stick with both hands and
                        held it across his knees.
                    "No,no! Please let us not talk of that any more. I could not feel
                        comfortable about it. I have kept my pledge to do something for his
                        countrysomething that we may hope pleases him if he knows."
                    The three were silent for a moment. A breeze, sweet with pine-scent of the
                        hills, swept the valley, taking tribute of the gardens as it passed. The
                        Baron was afraid to venture his last request.
                    "But the namethe honored name of the greatest statesman Austria has
                        knowna name that will endure with the greatest names of Europesurely you can
                        at least accept that."
                    The Ambassador's tone was as gravely importunate as though he were
                        begging the cession of a city from a harsh conqueror. Armitage rose and
                        walked the length of the veranda. He had not seen Shirley since that morning
                        when the earth had slipped from under his feet at the bungalow. The
                        Claibornes had been back and forth often between Washington and Storm
                        Springs. The Judge had just been appointed a member of the Brazilian
                        boundary commission which was to meet shortly in Berlin,  and Mrs. Claiborne and Shirley were to go
                        with him. In the Claiborne garden, beyond and below, he saw a flash of white
                        here and there among the dark green hedges. He paused, leaned against a
                        pillar, and waited until Shirley crossed one of the walks and passed slowly
                        on, intent upon the rose trees; and he sawor thought he sawthe sun searching
                        out the gold in her brown hair. She was hatless. Her white gown emphasized
                        the straight line of her figure. She paused to ponder some new arrangement
                        of a line of hydrangeas, and he caught a glimpse of her against a pillar of
                        crimson ramblers. Then he went back to the Baron.
                    "How much of our row in the hills got into the newspapers?"
                        he asked, sitting down.
                    "Nothing,absolutely nothing. The presence of the Sophia
                            Margaret off the capes caused inquiries to be made at the embassy,
                        and several correspondents came down here to interview me. Then the revenue
                        officers made some raids in the hills opportunely and created a local
                        diversion. You were hurt while cleaning your gun,please do not forget
                        that!and you are a friend of my family,a very eccentric character, who has
                        chosen to live in the wilderness."
                    The Judge and Armitage laughed at these explanations,  though there was a little constraint upon them all. The
                        Baron's question was still unanswered.
                    "You ceased to be of particular interest some time ago. While you
                        were sick the fraudulent Von Kissel was arrested in Australia, and I believe
                        some of the newspapers apologized to you handsomely."
                    "That was very generous of them;" and Armitage shifted his
                        position slightly. A white skirt had flashed again in the Claiborne garden
                        and he was trying to follow it. At the same time there were questions he
                        wished to ask and have answered. The Baroness von Marhof had already gone to
                        Newport; the Baron lingered merely out of good feeling toward Armitagefor it
                        was as Armitage that he was still known to the people of Storm Springs, to
                        the doctor and nurses who tended him.
                    "The news from Vienna seems tranquil enough," remarked
                        Armitage. He had not yet answered the Baron's question, and the old
                        gentleman grew restless at the delay. "I read in the Neue Freie Presse a while ago that Charles Louis is showing an
                        unexpected capacity for affairs. It is reported, too, that an heir is in
                        prospect. The Winkelried conspiracy is only a bad dream and we may safely
                        turn to other affairs."
                    
                    "Yes; but the margin by which we escaped is too narrow to
                        contemplate."
                    "We have a saying that a miss is as good as a mile,"
                        remarked Judge Claiborne. "We have never told Mr. Armitage that we
                        found the papers in the safety box at New York to be as he described
                        them."
                    "They are dangerous. We have hesitated as to whether there was more
                        risk in destroying them than in preserving them," said the
                        Baron.
                    Armitage shrugged his shoulders and laughed.
                    "They are out of my hands. I positively decline to accept their
                        further custody."
                    A messenger appeared with a telegram which the Baron opened and read.
                    "It's from the commander of the Sophia
                            Margaret, who is just leaving Rio Janeiro for Trieste, and reports
                        his prisoners safe and in good health."
                    "It was a happy thought to have him continue his cruise to the
                        Brazilian coast before returning homeward. By the time he delivers those two
                        scoundrels to his government their fellow conspirators will have forgotten
                        they ever lived. But"and Judge Claiborne shrugged his shoulders and
                        smiled disingenuously"as a lawyer I deplore such methods. Think
                        what a stir would be  made in this country if
                        it were known that two men had been kidnapped in the sovereign state of
                        Virginia and taken out to sea under convoy of ships carrying our flag for
                        transfer to an Austrian battle-ship! That's what we get for being a
                        free republic that can not countenance the extradition of a foreign citizen
                        for a political offense."
                    Armitage was not listening. Questions of international law and comity had no
                        interest for him whatever. The valley breeze, the glory of the blue Virginia
                        sky, the far-stretching lines of hills that caught and led the eye like sea
                        billows; the dark green of shrubbery, the slope of upland meadows, and that
                        elusive, vanishing gleam of white,before such things as these the splendor
                        of empire and the might of armies were unworthy of man's
                        desire.
                    The Baron's next words broke harshly upon his mood.
                    "The gratitude of kings is not a thing to be despised. You could go
                        to Vienna and begin where most men leave off! Strong hands are needed in
                        Austria,you could make yourself the youngerthe great Stroebel"
                    The mention of his name brought back the Baron's still unanswered
                        question. He referred to it now, as he stood before them smiling.
                    
                    "I have answered all your questions but one; I shall answer that a
                        little later,if you will excuse me for just a few minutes I will go and get
                        the answer,that is, gentlemen, I hope I shall be able to bring it back with
                        me."
                    He turned and ran down the steps and strode away through the long shadows of
                        the garden. They heard the gate click after him as he passed into the
                        Claiborne grounds and then they glanced at each other with such a glance as
                        may pass between two members of a peace commission sitting on the same side
                        of the table, who will not admit to each other that the latest proposition
                        of the enemy has been in the nature of a surprise. They did not, however,
                        suffer themselves to watch Armitage, but diplomatically refilled their
                        glasses.
                    Through the green walls went Armitage. He had not been out of the
                        Baron's grounds before since he was carried thence from the
                        bungalow; and it was pleasant to be free once more, and able to stir without
                        a nurse at his heels; and he swung along with his head and shoulders erect,
                        walking with the confident stride of a man who has no doubt whatever of his
                        immediate aim.
                    At the pergola he paused to reconnoiter, finding on the bench certain vestigia that interested him deeply,  a pink parasol, a contrivance of straw, lace and pink roses
                        that seemed to be a hat, and a June magazine. He jumped upon the bench where
                        once he had sat, an exile, a refugee, a person discussed in disagreeable
                        terms by the newspapers, and studied the landscape. Then he went on up the
                        gradual slope of the meadow, until he came to the pasture wall. It was under
                        the trees beneath which Oscar had waited for Zmai that he found her.
                    "They told me you wouldn't dare venture out for a
                        week," she said, advancing toward him and giving him her hand.
                    "That was what they told me," he said, laughing;
                        "but I escaped from my keepers."
                    "You will undoubtedly take cold,without your hat!"
                    "Yes; I shall undoubtedly have pneumonia from exposure to the
                        Virginia sunshine. I take my chances."
                    "You may sit on the wall for three minutes; then you must go back. I
                        can not be responsible for the life of a wounded hero."
                    "Please!" He held up his hand. "That's
                        what I came to talk to you about."
                    "About being a hero? You have taken an unfair advantage. I was going
                        to send for the latest designs in laurel wreaths to-morrow."
                    
                    She sat down beside him on the wall. The sheep were a grayish blur against
                        the green. A little negro boy was shepherding them, and they scampered
                        before him toward the farther end of the pasture. The faint and vanishing
                        tinkle of a bell, and the boy's whistle, gave emphasis to the
                        country-quiet of the late afternoon. They spoke rapidly and impersonally of
                        his adventures in the hills and of his illness. When they looked at each
                        other it was with swift laughing glances. Her cheeks and hands were already
                        brown,an honest brown won from May and June in the open field,not that
                        blistered, peeling scarlet that marks the insincere devotee of racket,
                        driver and oar, who jumps into the game in August, but the real brown
                        conferred by the dear mother of us all upon the faithful who go forth to
                        meet her in April. Her hands interested him particularly. They were long,
                        slender and supple; and she had a pretty way of folding them upon her knees
                        that charmed him.
                    "I didn't know, Miss Claiborne, that I was going to lose my
                        mind that morning at the bungalow or I should have asked your brother to
                        conduct you to the conservatory while I fainted. From what they told me I
                        must have been a little light-headed for a day or two. If I had been in my
                        right mind I shouldn't have let Captain  Dick mix up in my business and run the risk of getting killed
                        in a nasty little row. Dear old Dick! I made a mess of that whole business;
                        I ought to have telegraphed for the Storm Springs constable in the
                        beginning, and told him that if he wasn't careful the noble house
                        of Schomburg would totter and fall."
                    "Yes; and just imagine the effect on our constable of telling him
                        that the fate of an empire lay in his hands. It's hard enough to
                        get a man arrested who beats his horse. But you must go back to your
                        keepers. You haven't your hat"
                    "Neither have you; you shan't outdo me in recklessness. I
                        inspected your hat as I came through the pergola. I liked it immensely; I
                        came near seizing it as spoil of war,the loot of the pergola!"
                    "There would be cause for another war; I have rarely liked any hat
                        so much. But the Baron will be after you in a moment. I can't be
                        responsible for you."
                    "The Baron annoys me. He has given me a lot of worry. And
                        that's what I have come to ask you about."
                    "Then I should say that you oughtn't to quarrel with a dear
                        old man like Baron von Marhof. Besides, he's your
                        uncle."
                    
                    "No! No! I don't want him to be my uncle! I don't
                        need any uncle!"
                    He glanced about with an anxiety that made her laugh.
                    "I understand perfectly! My father told me that the events of April
                        in these hills were not to be mentioned. But don't worry; the sheep
                        won't telland I won't."
                    He was silent for a moment as he thought out the words of what he wished to
                        say to her. The sun was dipping down into the hills; the mellow air was
                        still; the voice of a negro singing as he crossed a distant field stole
                        sweetly upon them.
                    "Shirley!"
                    He touched her hand.
                    "Shirley!" and his fingers closed upon hers.
                    "I love you, Shirley! From those days when I saw you in Paris,before
                        the great Gettysburg battle picture, I loved you. You had felt the cry of
                        the Old World, the story that is in its battle-fields, its beauty and
                        romance, just as I had felt the call of this new and more wonderful world. I
                        understoodI knew what was in your heart; I knew what those things meant to
                        you;but I had put them aside; I had chosen another life for myself. And the
                        poor life that you saved, that is yours if 
                        you will take it. I have told your father and Baron von Marhof that I would
                        not take the fortune my father left me; I would not go back there to be
                        thanked or to get a ribbon to wear in my coat. But my name, the name I bore
                        as a boy and disgraced in my father's eyes,his name that he made
                        famous throughout the world, the name I cast aside with my youth, the name I
                        flung away in anger,they wish me to take that."
                    She withdrew her hand and rose and looked away toward the western hills.
                    "The greatest romance in the world is here, Shirley. I have dreamed
                        it all over,in the Canadian woods, on the Montana ranch as I watched the
                        herd at night. My father spent his life keeping a king upon his throne; but
                        I believe there are higher things and finer things than steadying a shaking
                        throne or being a king. And the name that has meant nothing to me except
                        dominion and power,it can serve no purpose for me to take it now. I learned
                        much from the poor Archduke; he taught me to hate the sham and shame of the
                        life he had fled from. My father was the last great defender of the divine
                        right of kings; but I believe in the divine right of men. And the dome of
                        the Capitol in Washington does not mean to me force or hatred or power, but
                        faith and hope and  man's right to
                        live and do and be whatever he can make himself. I will not go back or take
                        the old name unless,unless you tell me I must, Shirley!"
                    There was an instant in which they both faced the westering sun. He looked
                        down suddenly and the deep feeling in his heart went to his lips.
                    "It was that way,you were just like that when I saw you first,
                        Shirley, with the dreams in your eyes."
                    He caught her hand and kissed it,bending very low indeed. Suddenly, as he
                        stood erect, her arms were about his neck and her cheek with its warmth and
                        color lay against his face.
                    "I do not know,"and he scarcely heard the whispered
                        words,"I do not know Frederick Augustus von Stroebel,but I loveJohn
                        Armitage," she said.
                    Then back across the meadow, through the rose-aisled ways of the quiet
                        garden, they went hand in hand together and answered the Baron's
                        question.
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE BEST ROMANCE SINCE STEVENSON THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND
                    CANDLES
                
                    By MEREDITH NICHOLSON Author of The Port of Missing Men
                        English, Canadian and Australian Editions
                    
                
                The very title reeks with enchantment. It savors of a new Arabian
                    Nights' allurement, and we dash through the pages, the speed increasing
                    with every chapter, held breathless with excitement.
                Meredith Nicholson's new story should be rechristened The Book of a
                    Thousand Delights.
                
                    Philadelphia Item
                
                The story teems with mysteries, and the reader is lured from one to another,
                    hurried through secret passages echoing with ghostly footfalls, plunged into the
                    midst of daredevil villainy, refreshed by gentle love-making, and carried off
                    his feet in the last rushing scene.
                
                    Boston Herald
                
                An ingenious and original story.
                
                    London Graphic
                
                
                    Illustrated in color By Howard Chandler Christy 12mo,
                        cloth, price $1.50
                
                
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company: Indianapolis
                
            
            
            
                A THOROUGHBRED MAN THE MAIN CHANCE
                
                    By MEREDITH NICHOLSON Author of Zelda Dameron
                
                And while we think of it, we must not forget that new American author, Nicholson,
                    who has given a remarkable study of Western social conditions in The Main
                    Chance. He is the only writer among us who can equal Mr. William Dean Howells in
                    his interpretation of the thoroughbred man.
                
                    The Independent
                
                We commend it for its workmanship, for its smoothness and its sensible and
                    pleasant fancies, and for its general charm.
                
                    New York Sun
                
                A wonderful piece of work, full of life and the wisdom of life, and with a style
                    so limpid that one does not see it flow.
                
                    Pittsburg Gazette
                
                
                    Illustrated by Harrison Fisher 12mo, cloth, price $1.50
                
                
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company: Indianapolis
                
            
            
            
                A THOROUGHBRED GIRL ZELDA DAMERON
                
                    By MEREDITH NICHOLSON Author of The Main Chance
                
                Zelda Dameron is in all ways a splendid and successful story. There is about it a
                    sweetness, a wholesomeness and a sturdiness that commend it to earnest, kindly
                    and thoughtful people.
                
                    Boston Transcript
                
                The whole story is thoroughly American. It is lively and breezy throughouta
                    graphic description of a phase of life in the Middle West.
                
                    Toledo Blade
                
                A love story of a peculiarly sweet and attractive sortthe interpretation of a
                    girl's life, the revelation of a human heart.
                
                    New Orleans Picayune
                
                Any man would be proud to be father or brother or even something closer and
                    dearer to Zelda Dameron.
                
                    New York Sun
                
                
                    With portraits of the characters in color By John Cecil
                        Clay 12mo, cloth, price $1.50
                
                
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company: Indianapolis
                
            
            
            
                VERSE OF DISTINCTION POEMS
                
                    By MEREDITH NICHOLSON Author of The House of a Thousand
                        Candles
                
                The fine and stirring poems which make up this volume constitute one of the most
                    important contributions to recent American verse. Some of them have appeared
                    previously in leading magazines. Others appear here for the first time. All
                    possess in high degree the qualities of delicacy, discrimination, distinction,
                    charm and clarity of form, sincerity of feeling and individuality of
                    thought.
                The range of the poet is great. He writes of the winds and the mountains with an
                    Hebraic fervor and a prophet's sense of the immanence of God. He sings
                    of youth and beauty with a playful and lingering tenderness. Music through him
                    sounds her chords of purest feeling. His patriotic poems ring out like a
                    bugle-call. And he writes always of life and death and all their changes with
                    sincerity, nobility of ideals, faith and a heart open to the benign influences
                    of nature and mankind.
                
                    Tall 12mo, cloth, price $1.25; postage, 10 cents
                
                
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company: Indianapolis
                
            
        
    
