
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. The Slim Princess: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2329
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
                THE SLIM PRINCESS
                
            
            
            
                
                    Kalora
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE SLIM
                    PRINCESS
                
                BY
                    GEORGE ADE Author
                        of Fables in Slang In Pastures New, Pink
                    Marsh, etc.
                With Illustrations by GEORGE F. KERR
                
                    Indianapolis
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company
                    Publishers
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT 1907 THE BOBBS MERRILL
                    COMPANY
                APRIL
                'The Slim Princess" has been
                        elaborated and rewritten from a story printed in The Saturday Evening Post of
                    Philadelphia late in 1906 and copyright, 1906, by the Curtis Publishing Company
                PRESS OF BRAUNWORTH & CO. BOOKBINDERS AND PRINTERS BROOKLYN, N.
                Y.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I WOMAN IN MOROVENIA 1
                        
                    II KALORA'S AFFLICTION 5
                        
                    III THE CRUELTY OF LAW 12
                        
                    IV THE GARDEN PARTY 18
                        
                    V HE DEPARTS 38
                        
                    VI HE DEPARTS 60
                        
                    VII THE ONLY KOLDO 68
                        
                    VIII BY MESSENGER 85
                        
                    IX As TO WASHINGTON, D. C. 99
                        
                    X ON THE WING 108
                        
                    XI As OUTINGA REUNION 114
                        
                    XII THE GOVERNOR CABLES 129
                        
                    XIII THE HOME-COMING 140
                        
                    XIV HEROISM REWARDED 147
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE SLIM PRINCESS
                
                THE SLIM PRINCESS
                
                    I
                    WOMAN IN MOROVENIA
                    Morovenia is a state in which both the mosque and the motor-car
                        now occur in the same landscape. It started out to be Turkish and later
                        decided to be European.
                    The Mohammedan sanctuaries with their hideous stencil decorations
                        and bulbous domes are jostled by many new shops with blinking fronts and
                        German merchandise. The orthodox turn their faces toward Mecca while the
                        enlightened dream of a journey to Paris. Men of title lately have made the
                        pleasing discovery that they may drink champagne  and still be good Mussulmans. The red slipper has been
                        succeeded by the tan gaiter. The voluminous breeches now acknowledge the
                        superior graces of intimate English trousers. Frock-coats are more
                        conventional than beaded jackets. The fez remains as a part of the insignia
                        of the old faith and hereditary devotion to the Sick Man.
                    The generation of males which has been extricating itself from
                        the shackles of Orientalism has not devoted much worry to the Condition of
                        Woman.
                    In Morovenia woman is still unlimberated. She does not dine at a
                        palm-garden or hop into a victoria on Thursday afternoon to go to the
                        meeting of a club organized to propagate cults. If she met a cult face to
                        face she would not recognize it.
                    Nor does she suspect, as she sits in her  prison apartment, peeping out through the lattice
                        at the monotonous drift of the street life, that her sisters in far-away
                        Michigan are organizing and raising missionary funds in her behalf.
                    She does not read the dressmaking periodicals. She never heard of
                        the Wednesday matinee. When she takes the air she rides in a carriage that
                        has a sheltering hood, and she is veiled up to the eyes, and she must never
                        lean out to wriggle her little finger-tips at men lolling in front of the
                        cafs. She must not see the men. She may look at them, but she must not see
                        them. No wonder the sisters in Michigan are organizing to batter down the
                        walls of tradition, and bring to her the more recent privileges of her sex!
                    Two years ago, when this story had its real beginning, the social
                        status of woman  in Morovenia was
                        not greatly different from what it is to-day, or what it was two centuries
                        ago.
                    Woman had two important duties assigned to her. One was to hide
                        herself from the gaze of the multitude, and the other was to be
                        beautifulthat is, fat. A woman who was plump, or buxom, or chubby might be
                        classed as passably attractive, but only the fat women were irresistible. A
                        woman weighing two hundred pounds was only two-thirds as beautiful as one
                        weighing three hundred. Those grading below one hundred and fifty were
                        verging upon the impossible.
                
                
                
                    II
                    KALOEA'S AFFLICTION
                    If it had been planned to make this an old-fashioned discursive
                        novel, say of the Victor Hugo variety, the second chapter would expend
                        itself upon a philosophical discussion of Fat and a sensational showing of
                        how and why the presence or absence of adipose tissue, at certain important
                        crises, had altered the destinies of the whole race.
                    The subject offers vast possibilities. It involves the physical
                        attractiveness of every woman in History and permits one to speculate wildly
                        as to what might have happened if Cleopatra had weighed forty pounds
                        heavier, if Elizabeth had been a gaunt and wiry creature, or if Joan of  Are had been so bulky that she
                        could not have fastened on her armor.
                    The soft layers which enshroud the hard machinery of the human
                        frame seem to arrive in a merely incidental or accidental sort of way. Yet
                        once they have arrived they exert a mysterious influence over careers.
                        Because of a mere change in contour, many a queen has lost her throne. It is
                        a terrifying thought when one remembers that fat so often comes and so
                        seldom goes.
                    It has been explained that in Morovenia, obesity and feminine
                        beauty increased in the same ratio. The woman reigning in the hearts of men
                        was the one who could displace the most atmosphere.
                    Because of the fashionableness of fat, Count Selim Malagaski,
                        Governor-General of Morovenia, was very unhappy. He had two daughters. One
                        was fat;  one was thin. To be more
                        explicit, one was gloriously fat and the other was distressingly thin.
                    Jeneka was the name of the one who had been blessed abundantly.
                        Several of the younger men in official circles, who had seen Jeneka at a
                        distance, when she waddled to her carriage or turned side-wise to enter a
                        shop-door, had written verses about her in which they compared her to the
                        blushing pomegranate, the ripe melon, the luscious grape, and other
                        vegetable luxuries more or less globular in form.
                    No one had dedicated any verses to Kalora. Kalora was the elder
                        of the two. She had come to the alarming age of nineteen and no one had
                        started in bidding for her.
                    In court circles, where there is much time for idle gossip, the
                        most intimate  secrets of an
                        important household are often bandied about when the black coffee is being
                        served. The marriageable young men of Morovenia had learned of the calamity
                        in Count Malagaski's family. They knew that Kalora weighed less
                        than one hundred and twenty pounds. She was tall, lithe, slender, sinuous,
                        willowy, hideous. The fact that poor old Count Malagaski had made many
                        unsuccessful attempts to fatten her was a stock subject for jokes of an
                        unrefined and Turkish character.
                    Whereas Jeneka would recline for hours at a time on a shaded
                        veranda, munching sugary confections that were loaded with nutritious nuts,
                        Kalora showed a far-western preference for pickles and olives, and had been
                        detected several times in the act of bribing servants  to bring this contraband food into the harem.
                    Worse still, she insisted upon taking exercise. She loved to play
                        romping games within the high walls of the in-closure where she and the
                        other female attaches of the royal household were kept penned up. Her father
                        coaxed, pleaded and even threatened, but she refused to lead the indolent
                        life prescribed by custom; she scorned the sweet and heavy foods which would
                        enable her to expand into loveliness; she persistently declined to be fat.
                    Kalora's education was being directed by a superannuated
                        professor named Popova. He was so antique and book-wormy that none of the
                        usual objections urged against the male sex seemed to hold good in his case,
                        and he had the free run  of the
                        palace. Count Selim Malagaski trusted him implicitly. Popova fawned upon the
                        Governor-General, and seemed slavish in his devotion. Secretly and
                        stealthily he was working out a frightful vengeance upon his patron. Twenty
                        years before, Count Selim, in a moment of anger, had called Popova a
                        "Christian dog."
                    In Morovenia it is flattery to call a man a
                        "liar." It is just the same as saying to him,
                        "You belong in the diplomatic corps." It is no disgrace to
                        be branded as a thief, because all business transactions are saturated with
                        treachery. But to call another a "Christian dog" is the
                        thirty-third degree of insult.
                    Popova writhed in spirit when he was called
                        "Christian," but he covered his wrath and remained in the
                        nobleman's service and waited for his revenge. And 
                        
                            Her father coaxed
                        
                         now he was sacrificing the
                        innocent Kalora in order to punish the father. He said to himself:
                        "If she does not fatten, then her father's heart will be
                        broken, and he will suffer even as I have suffered from being called
                        Christian."
                    It was Popova who, by guarded methods, encouraged her to violent
                        exercise, whereby she became as hard and trim as an antelope. He continued
                        to supply her with all kinds of sour and biting foods and sharp mineral
                        waters, which are the sworn enemies of any sebaceous condition. And now that
                        she was nineteen, almost at the further boundary of the marrying age, and
                        slimmer than ever before, he rejoiced greatly, for he had accomplished his
                        deep and malign purpose, and laid a heavy burden of sorrow upon Count Selim
                        Malagaski.
                
                
                
                    III
                    THE CRUELTY OF LAW
                    If the father was worried by the prolonged crisis, the younger
                        sister, Jeneka, was well-nigh distracted, for she could not hope to marry
                        until Kalora had been properly mated and sent away.
                    In Morovenia there is a very strict law intended to eliminate the
                        spinster from the social horizon. It is a law born of craft and inspired by
                        foresight. The daughters of a household must be married off in the order of
                        their nativity. The younger sister dare not contemplate matrimony until the
                        elder sister has been led to the altar. It is impossible for a young and
                        attractive girl to make a desirable match leaving a maiden sister marooned
                             in the market. She must
                        cooperate with her parents and with the elder sister to clear the way.
                    As a rule this law encourages earnest getting-together in every
                        household and results in a clearing up of the entire stock of eligible
                        daughters. But think of the unhappy lot of an adorable and much-coveted
                        maiden who finds herself wedged in behind something unattractive and
                        shelf-worn! Jeneka was thus pocketed. She could do nothing except fold her
                        hands and patiently wait for some miraculous intervention.
                    In Morovenia the discreet marrying age is about sixteen. Jeneka
                        was eighteenstill young enough and of a most ravishing weight, but the slim
                        princess stood as a slight, yet seemingly insurmountable barrier between her
                        and all hopes of conventional happiness.
                    
                    Count Malagaski did not know that the shameful fact of
                        Kalora's thinness was being whispered among the young men of
                        Morovenia. When the daughters were out for their daily carriage-ride both
                        wore flowing robes. In the case of Kalora, this augmented costume was
                        intended to conceal the absence of noble dimensions.
                    It is not good form in Morovenia for a husband or father to
                        discuss his home life, or to show enthusiasm on the subject of mere woman;
                        but the Count, prompted by a fretful desire to dispose of his rapidly
                        maturing offspring, often remarked to the high-born young gentlemen of his
                        acquaintance that Kalora was a most remarkable girl and one possessed of
                        many charms, leaving them to infer, if they cared to do so, that possibly
                        she weighed at least one hundred and eighty pounds.
                    
                    
                        Papova rejoiced greatly
                    
                    
                    These casual comments did not seem to arouse any burning
                        curiosity anions the young men, and up to the day of Kalora's
                        nineteenth anniversary they had not had the effect of bringing to the father
                        any of those guarded inquiries which, under the oriental custom, are always
                        preliminary to an actual proposal of marriage.
                    Count Selim Malagaski had a double reason for wishing to see
                        Kalora married. While she remained at home he knew that he would be second
                        in authority. There is an occidental misapprehension to the effect that
                        every woman beyond the borders of the Levant is a languorous and waxen lily,
                        floating in a milk-warm pool of idleness. It is true that the women of a
                        household live in certain apartments set aside as a
                        "harem." But "harem" literally means
                        "forbidden"that is, forbidden  to the public, nothing more. Every villa at Newport has a
                        "harem." The women of Morovenia do not pour tea for men
                        every afternoon, and they are kept well under cover, but they are not
                        slaves. They do not inherit a nominal authority, but very often they assume
                        a real authority. In the United States, women can not sail a boat, and yet
                        they direct the cruise of the yacht. Railway presidents can not vote in the
                        Senate, and yet they always know how the votes are going to be cast. And in
                        Morovenia, many a clever woman, deprived of specified and legal rights, has
                        learned to rule man by those tactful methods which are in such general use
                        that they need not be specified in this connection. Kalora had a way of
                        getting around her father. After she had defied him and put him into a
                        stewing rage, she  would smooth
                        him the right way and, with teasing little cajoleries, nurse him back to a
                        pleasant humor. He would find himself once more at the starting-place of the
                        controversy, his stern commands unheeded, and the disobedient (laughter
                        laughing in his very face.
                    Thus, while he was ashamed of her physical imperfections, he
                        admired her cleverness. Often he said to Popova: "I tell you, she
                        might make some man a sprightly and entertaining companion, even if she is
                        slender."
                    Whereupon the crafty Popova would reply: "Be patient,
                        your Excellency. We shall yet have her as round as a dumpling."
                    And all the time he was keeping her trained as fine as the
                        proverbial fiddle.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    THE GARDEN PARTY
                    Said the Governor-General to himself in that prime hour for
                        wide-awake meditationthe one just before arising for breakfast:
                        "She is not all that she should be, and yet, millions of women have
                        been less than perfect and most of them have married."
                    He looked hard at the ceiling for a full minute and then
                        murmured, "Even men have their shortcomings."
                    This declaration struck him as being sinful and almost infidel in
                        its radicalism, and yet it seemed to open the way to a logical reason why
                        some titled bachelor of damaged reputation and tottering finances might
                        balance his poor assets  against a
                        dowry and a social position, even though he would he compelled to figure
                        Kalora into the bargain.
                    It must be known that the Governor-General was now simply looking
                        for a husband for Kalora. He did not hope to top the market or bring down
                        any notable catch. He favored any alliance that would result in no discredit
                        to his noble lineage.
                    "At present they do not even nibble," he
                        soliloquized, still looking at the ceiling. "They have taken fright
                        for some reason. They may have an inkling of the awful truth. She is
                        nineteen. Next year she will be twentythe year after that twenty-one. Then
                        it would be too late. A desperate experiment is better than inaction. I have
                        much to gain and nothing to lose. I must exhibit Kalora. I shall bring the
                        young men to her.
                    
                    Some of them may take a fancy to her. I have seen people eat
                        sugar on tomatoes and pepper on ice-cream. There may be in Morovenia oneone
                        would be sufficientone bachelor who is no stickler for full-blown
                        loveliness. I may find a man who has become inoculated with western heresies
                        and believes that a woman with intellect is desirable, even though under
                        weight. I may find a fool, or an aristocrat who has gambled. I may stumble
                        upon good fortune if I put her out among the young men. Yes, I must exhibit
                        her, but howhow?"
                    He began reaching into thin air for a pretext and found one. The
                        inspiration was simple and satisfying.
                    He would give a garden-party in honor of Mr. Rawley Plumston, the
                        British Consul. Of course he would have to invite Mrs. Plumston and then,
                        out of  deference to European
                        custom, he would have his two daughters present. It was only by the use of
                        imported etiquette that he could open the way to direct courtship.
                    Possibly some of the cautious young noblemen would talk with
                        Kalora, and, finding her bright-eyed, witty, ready in conversation and with
                        enthusiasm for big and masculine undertakings, be attracted to her. At the
                        same time her father decided that there was no reason why her pitiful
                        shortage of avoirdupois should be candidly advertised. Even at a
                        garden-party, where the guests of honor are two English subjects, the young
                        women would be required to veil themselves up to the nose-tips and hide
                        themselves within a veritable cocoon of soft garments.
                    The invitations went out and the acceptances  came in. The English were flattered. Count
                        Malagaski was buoyed by new hopes and the daughters were in a day-and-night
                        flutter, for neither of them had ever come within speaking distance of the
                        real young man of their dreams.
                    On the morning of the day set apart for the dbut of Kalora, Count
                        Selim went to her apartments, and, with a rather shamefaced reluctance, gave
                        his directions.
                    "Kalora, I have done all for you that any father could
                        do for a beloved child and you are still thin," he began.
                    "Slender," she corrected.
                    "Thin," he repeated. "Thin as a crane
                        a mere shadow of a girland, what is more deplorable, apparently indifferent
                        to the sorrow that you are causing those most interested in your
                        welfare."
                    
                    "I am not indifferent, father. If, merely by wishing, I
                        could be fat, I would make myself the shape of the French balloon that
                        floated over Morovenia last week. I would be so roly-poly that, when it came
                        time for me to go and meet our guests this afternoon, I would roll into
                        their presence as if I were a tennis-ball."
                    "Why should you know anything about tennis-balls? You,
                        of all the young women in Morovenia, seem to be the only one with a fondness
                        for athletics. I have heard that in Great Britain, where the women ride and
                        play rude, manly games, there has been developed a breed as hard as
                        flintAllah preserve me from such women!"
                    "Father, you are leading up to something. What is it you
                        wish to say?"
                    "This. You have persistently disobeyed  me and made me very unhappy, but
                        to-day I must ask you to respect my wishes. Do not proclaim to our guests
                        the sad truth regarding your deficiency."
                    "Good!" she exclaimed gaily. "I shall
                        wear a robe the size of an Arabian tent, and I shall surround myself with
                        soft pillows, and I shall wheeze when I breathe andwho knows?perhaps some
                        dark-eyed young man worth a million piasters will be deceived, and will come
                        to you to-morrow, and buy mebuy me at so much a pound." And she
                        shrieked with laughter.
                    "Stop!" commanded her father. "You
                        refuse to take me seriously, but I am in earnest. Do not humiliate me in the
                        presence of my friends this afternoon."
                    Then he hurried away before she had time to make further sport of
                        him.
                    To Count Selim Malagaski this garden-party  was the frantic effort of a sinking man. To Kalora
                        it was a lark. From the pure fun of the thing, she obeyed her father. She
                        wore four heavily quilted and padded gowns, one over another, and when she
                        and Jeneka were summoned from their apartments and went out to meet the
                        company under the trees, they were almost like twins and both duck-like in
                        general outlines.
                    First they met Mrs. Rawley Plumston, a very tall, bony and
                        dignified woman in gray, wearing a most flowery hat. To every man of
                        Morovenia Mrs. Plumston was the apotheosis of all that was undesirable in
                        her sex, but they were exceedingly polite to her, for the reason that
                        Morovenia owed a great deal of money in London and it was a set policy to
                        cultivate the friendship of the British.
                    While Jeneka and Kalora were being  presented to the consul's wife, these same young
                        men, the very flower of bachelorhood, stood back at a respectful distance
                        and regarded the young women with half-concealed curiosity. To be permitted
                        to inspect young women of the upper classes was a most unusual privilege,
                        and they knew why the privilege had been extended to them. It was all very
                        amusing, but they were too well bred to betray their real emotions. When
                        they moved up to be presented to the sisters they seemed grave in their
                        salutations and restrained themselves, even though one pair of eyes, peering
                        out above a very gauzy veil, seemed to twinkle with mischief and to
                        corroborate their most pronounced suspicions.
                    Out of courtesy to his guests, Count Malagaski had made his
                        garden-party as deadly dull as possible. Little groups of 
                        
                            Being presented to the Consul's
                                wife
                        
                         bored people drifted about under
                        the trees and exchanged the usual commonplace observations. Tea and cakes
                        were served under a canopy tent and the local orchestra struggled with pagan
                        music.
                    Kalora found herself in a wide and easy kind of a basket-chair
                        sitting under a tree and chatting with Mrs. Plumston. She was trying to be
                        at her ease, and all the time she knew that every young man present was
                        staring at her out of the corner of his eye.
                    Mrs. Plumston, although very tall and evidently of brawny
                        strength, had a twittering little voice and a most confiding manner. She was
                        immensely interested in the daughter of the Governor-General. To meet a
                        young girl who had spent her life within the mysterious shadows of an
                        oriental household gave her a tingling interest, the same as reading a
                        forbidden  book. She readily won
                        the confidence of Kalora, and Kalora, being most ingenuous and not educated
                        to the wiles of the drawing-room, spoke her thoughts with the utmost candor.
                    "I like you," she said to Mrs. Plums-ton,
                        "and, oh, how I envy you! You go to balls and dinners and the
                        theater, don't you?"
                    "Alas, yes, and you escape them! How I envy you!"
                    "Your husband is a very handsome man. Do you love
                        him?"
                    "I tolerate him."
                    "Does he ever scold you for being thin?"
                    "Does he what?"
                    "Is he ever angry with you because you are not big and
                        plump andand pulpy?"
                    "Heavens, no! If my husband has  any private convictions regarding my personal
                        appearance, he is discreet enough to keep them to himself. If he
                        isn't satisfied with me, he should be. I have been working for
                        years to save myself from becoming fat and plump andpulpy."
                    "Then you don't think fat women are
                        beautiful?"
                    "My child, in all enlightened countries adipose is
                        woman's worst enemy. If I were a fat woman, and a man said that he
                        loved me, I should know that he was after my bank-account. Take my advice,
                        my dear young lady, and bant."
                    "Bant?"
                    "Reduce. Make yourself slender. You have beautiful eyes,
                        beautiful hair, a perfect complexion, and with a trim figure you would be
                        simply incomparable."
                    Kalora listened, trembling with surprise  and pleasure. Then she leaned over and took the
                        hand of the gracious Englishwoman.
                    "I have a confession to make," she said in a
                        whisper. "I am not fatI am slimquite slim."
                    And then, at that moment, something happened to make this whole
                        story worth telling. It was a little something, but it was the beginning of
                        many strange experiences, for it broke up the wonderful garden-party in the
                        grounds of the Governor-General, and it gave Morovenia something to talk
                        about for many weeks to come. It all came about as follows:
                    At the military club, the night before the party, a full score of
                        young men, representing the quality, sat at an oblong table and partook of
                        refreshments not sanctioned by the Prophet. They were young men of
                        registered birth and supposititious  breeding, even though most of them had very little head back of the ears
                        and wore the hair clipped short and were big of bone, like work-horses, and
                        had the gusty manners of the camp.
                    They were foolishly gloating over the prospect of meeting the two
                        daughters of the Governor-General, and were telling what they knew about
                        them with much freedom, for, even in a monarchy, the chief executive and his
                        family are public property and subject to the censorship of any one who has
                        a voice for talking.
                    Of these male gossips there were a few who said, with gleeful
                        certainty, that the elder daughter was a mere twig who could hide within the
                        shadow of her bounteous and incomparable sister.
                    "Wait until to-morrow and you shall see," they
                        said, wagging their heads very wisely.
                    
                    To-morrow had come and with it the party and here was Kaloraa
                        pretty face peering out from a great pod of clothes.
                    They stood back and whispered and guessed, until one, more
                        enterprising than the others, suggested a bold experiment to set all doubts
                        at rest.
                    Count Malagaski had provided a diversion for his guests. A
                        company of Arabian acrobats, on their way from Constantinople to Paris, had
                        been intercepted, and were to give an exhibition of leaping and
                        pyramid-building at one end of the garden. While Kalora was chatting with
                        Sirs. Plumston, the acrobats had entered and, throwing off their
                        yellow-and-black striped gowns, were preparing for the feats. They were
                        behind the two women and at the far end of the garden. Mrs. Plumston and
                        Kalora would have to move to the other side of the 
                        
                            Did they carry heer?
                        
                         tree in order to witness the
                        exhibition. This fact gave the devil-may-care young bachelors a ready
                        excuse.
                    "Do as I have directed and you shall learn for
                        yourselves," said the one who had invented the tactics. "I
                        tell you that what you see is all shell. Now then"
                    Four conspirators advanced in a half-careless and sauntering
                        manner to where Kalora and the consul's wife sat by the sheltering
                        tree, intent upon their exchange of secrets.
                    "Pardon me, Mrs. Plumston, but the acrobats are about to
                        begin," said one of the young men, touching the fez with his
                        forefinger.
                    "Oh, really?" she exclaimed, looking up.
                        "We must see them."
                    "You must face the other way," said the young
                        man. "They are at the east end of the garden. Permit us."
                    
                    Whereupon the young roan who had spoken and a companion who stood
                        at his side very gently picked up Mrs. Plumston's big basket-chair
                        between them and carried it around to the other side of the tree. And the
                        two young men who had been waiting just behind picked up Kalora's
                        chair and carried her to the other side of the tree, and put her down beside
                        the consul's wife.
                    Did they carry her? No, they dandled her. She was as light as a
                        feather for these two young giants of the military. They made a palpable
                        show of the ridiculous ease with which they could lift their burden. It may
                        have been a forward thing to do, but they had done it with courtly
                        politeness, and the consul's wife, instead of being annoyed, was
                        pleased and smiling over the very pretty little attention, for she could not
                        know at the moment  that the whole
                        maneuver had grown out of a wager and was part of a detestable plan to find
                        out the actual weight of the Governor-General's elder daughter.
                    If Mrs. Plumston did not understand, Count Selim Malagaski
                        understood. So did all the young men who were watching the pantomime. And
                        Kalora understood. She looked up and saw the lurking smiles on the faces of
                        the two gallants who were carrying her, and later the tittering became
                        louder and some of the young men laughed aloud.
                    She leaped from her chair and turned upon her two tormentors.
                    "How dare you?" she exclaimed. "You
                        are making sport of me in the presence of my father's guests! You
                        have a contempt for me because I am ugly. You mock at me in private because
                             you hear that I am thin. You
                        wish to learn the truth about me. Well, I will tell you. I am thin. I weigh one hundred and eighteen
                        pounds."
                    She was speaking loudly and defiantly, and all the young men were
                        backing away, dismayed at the outbreak. Her father elbowed his way among
                        them, white with terror, and attempted to pacify her.
                    "Be still, my child!" he commanded.
                    "You don't know what you are saying!"
                    "Yes, I do know what I am saying!" she
                        persisted, her voice rising shrilly.
                    "Do they wish to know about me? Must they know the
                        truth? Then look! Look!"
                    
                    With sweeping outward gestures she threw off the soft quilted
                        robes gathered about her, tore away the veil and stood before them in a
                        white gown that fairly 
                        
                            She threw off the quilted robes
                        
                         revealed every modified
                        in-and-out of her figure.
                    What ensued? Is it necessary to tell? The costume in which she
                        stood forth was no more startling or immodest than the simple gown which the
                        American high-school girl wears on her Commencement Day, and it was
                        decidedly more ample than the sum of all the garments worn at polite social
                        gatherings in communities somewhat to the west. Nevertheless, the company
                        stood aghast. They were doubly horrified-first, at the effrontery of the
                        girl, and second, at the revelation of her real person, for they saw that
                        she was doomed, helpless, bereft of hope, slim beyond all curing.
                
                
                
                    V
                    HE ARRIVES
                    Kalora was alone.
                    After putting the company to consternation she had flung herself
                        defiantly back into the chair and directed a most contemptuous gaze at all
                        the desirable young men of her native land.
                    The Governor-General made a choking attempt to apologize and
                        explain, and then, groping for an excuse to send the people away, suggested
                        that the company view the new stables. The acrobats were dismissed. The
                        guests went rapidly to an inspection of the carriages and horses. They were
                        glad to escape. Jeneka, crushed in spirit and shamed at the brazen
                        performance of her sister, began 
                        a plaintive conjecture as to "what people would say," when
                        Kalora turned upon her such a tigerish glance that she fairly ran for her
                        apartment, although she was too corpulent for actual sprinting. Mrs.
                        Plumston remained behind as the only comforter.
                    "It was a most contemptible proceeding, my child. When
                        they lifted us and carried us to the other side of the tree I thought it was
                        rather nice of them; something on the order of the old Walter Raleigh days
                        of chivalry, and all that. And just think! The beasts did it to find out
                        whether or not you were really plump and heavy. It's a most
                        extraordinary incident."
                    "I wouldn't marry one of them now, not if he
                        begged and my father commanded!" said Kalora bitterly.
                        "And poor Jeneka! This takes away her last  chance. Until I am married she can not marry, and
                        after to-day not even a blind man would choose me."
                    "For goodness' sake, don't worry! You
                        tell me you are nineteen. No woman need feel discouraged until she is about
                        thirty-five. You have sixteen years ahead of you."
                    "Not in Morovenia."
                    "Why remain in Morovenia?"
                    "We are not permitted to travel."
                    "Perhaps, after what happened to-day, your father will
                        be glad to let you travel," said Mrs. Plumston with a significant
                        little nod and a wise squint. "Don't you generally succeed
                        in having your own way with him?"
                    "Oh, to travelto travel!" exclaimed Kalora,
                        clasping her hands. "If I am to remain single and a burden for
                        ever, perhaps it would lighten father's grief if I  resided far away. My presence
                        certainly would remind him of the wreck of all his ambitions, but if I
                        should settle down in Vienna or Paris, or" she paused and gave a
                        little gasp"or if anything should happen to me, if I shouldshould
                        disappear, that is, really disappear. Jeneka would be free to marry
                        and"
                    "Oh, pickles!" said Mrs. Plumston. "I
                        have heard of romantic young women jumping overboard and taking poison on
                        account of rich young men, but I never heard of a girl's snuffing
                        herself out so as to give her sister a chance to get married. The thing for
                        you to do at a time like this, when you find yourself in a tangle, is to
                        think of yourself and your own chances for happiness. Father and Jeneka will
                        take care of themselves. They are popular and beloved characters here in
                        Morovenia. They are not taking you  into consideration except as you seem to interfere with their selfish
                        plans. I have made it a rule not to work out my neighbor's
                        destiny."
                    "What can I do?" asked Kalora, seemingly
                        impressed by the earnestness of the consul's wife.
                    "Leave Morovenia. Keep at your father until he consents
                        to your going. Here you are despised and ridiculeda victim of heathen
                        prejudice left over from the Dark Ages. Get away, even if you have to walk,
                        and take my word for it, the moment you leave Morovenia you will be a very
                        beautiful girl; not a merely attractive young person, but what we would call
                        at home a radiant beautythe oriental type, you know. And as a personal favor
                        to me, don't be fat."
                    "No fear of that," said the girl with a  melancholy attempt at a smile.
                        "But you must go and join the others. Do, please. I am now in
                        disgrace, and you may compromise your social standing in Morovenia if you
                        remain here and talk to me."
                    "I dare say I should go. I have a husband who requires
                        as much attention and scolding as a four-year-old. Sometimes I almost favor
                        the oriental system of the husband's directing the wife.
                        Good-by."
                    "Good-by."
                    Mrs. Plumston gave her a kiss and a friendly little pat on the
                        arm, and walked away toward the stables with a swinging, heel-and-toe,
                        masculine stride.
                    Kalora had the whole garden to herself. She sat squared up in the
                        wicker chair with her fists clenched, looking straight ahead, trying in vain
                        to think of  some plan for
                        avenging herself upon the whole race of bachelors. As she sat thus some one
                        spoke to her.
                    "How do you do?" came a voice.
                    She was startled and looked about, but saw no one.
                    "Up here!" came the voice again.
                    She looked up and saw a young man on the top of the wall, his
                        legs hanging over. Evidently he had climbed up from the outside, and yet
                        Kalora had never suspected that the wall could be climbed.
                    He was smoothly shaven, with blond hair almost ripe enough to be
                        auburn; he wore a gray suit of rather loose and careless material, a belt,
                        but no waistcoat; his trousers were reefed up from a pair of saddle-brown
                        shoes, and the silk band around his small straw hat was tricolored. In his
                        hand was a paper-covered book. Swung over his shoulder was a camera in 
                        
                            "Up here!" came the voice
                                again
                        
                         a leather case. He sat there on
                        top of the high wall and gazed at Kalora with a grinning interest, and she,
                        forgetting that she was unveiled and clad only in the simple garments which
                        had horrified the best people of Morovenia, gazed back at him, for he was
                        the first of the kind she had seen.
                    "What are you doing here?" she asked
                        wonderingly.
                    "I am looking for the show," he replied.
                        "They told me down at the hotel that a very hot bunch of acrobats
                        were doing a few stunts down here this afternoon, and I thought I'd
                        break in if I could. Wanted to get some pictures of them."
                    "Were you invited?"
                    "No, but that doesn't make any difference. In
                        Cairo I went to a native wedding every day. If I passed a house where there
                        was a wedding being pulled  off, I
                        simply went inside and mingled. They never put me outseemed to enjoy having
                        me there. I suppose they thought it was the American custom for outsiders to
                        ring in at a wedding."
                    "You said American, didn't you? Are you from
                        America?"
                    "Do I look like a Scandinavian? I am from the grand old
                        commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Did you ever hear of the town of
                        Bessemer?"
                    "I'm afraid not."
                    "Did you ever hear of the Pike family that robbed all
                        the orphans, tore down the starry banner, walked on the humble working-girl
                        and gave the double cross to the common people? Did you?"
                    "Dear me, no," she replied, following him
                        vaguely.
                    "Well, I am Alexander H., of the tribe of Pike, and I
                        have two reasons for being  in
                        your beautiful little city. One is Federal grand jury and the other is
                        ten-cent magazine. You know, our folks are sinfully rich. About four years
                        ago I came in for most of the guvnor's coin, and in trying to keep
                        up the traditions of the family, I have made myself unpopular, but I
                        didn't know how unpopular I really was until I got this magazine
                        from home this morning." And he held up the paper-covered book,
                        which had a rainbow cover. "They have been writing up a few of us
                        captains of industry, and they have said everything about me that they could
                        say without having the thing barred out of the mails. I notice that you
                        speak our kind of talk fairly well, but I think I can take you by the hand
                        and show you a lot of new and beautiful English language. I will read this
                        to you."
                    Before she could warn him, or do anything  except let out a horrified
                        "Oh-h!" he had leaped lightly from his high perch and was
                        standing in front of her.
                    "I'm afraid you don't
                        understand," she said, rising and taking a frightened survey of the
                        garden, to be sure that no one was watching. "Strangers are not
                        permitted in here. That is, men, and more especiallyahChristians."
                    "I'm not a Christian, and I can prove it by
                        this magazine. I am an octopus, and a viper, and a vampire, and a man-eating
                        shark. I am what you might call a composite zoo. If you want to get a line
                        on me just read this article on The Shameless Brigand of Bessemer, and you
                        will certainly find out that I am a nice young fellow."
                    Kalora had studied English for years and thought she knew it, and
                        yet she found it difficult fully to comprehend  all the figurative phrases of this pleasing young
                        stranger.
                    "Do I understand that you are traveling abroad because
                        of your unpopularity at home?" she asked.
                    "I am waiting for things to cool down. As soon as the
                        muck-rakers wear out their rakes, and the great American public finds some
                        other kind of hysterics to keep it worked up to a proper temperature, I
                        shall mosey back and resume business at the old stand. But why tell you the
                        story of my life? Play fair now, and tell me a lot about yourself. Where am
                        I?"
                    "You are here in my father's private garden,
                        where you have no right to be."
                    "And father?"
                    "Is Count Selim Malagaski, Governor-General of
                        Morovenia."
                    "Wow! And you?"
                    "I am his daughter."
                    
                    "The daughter of all that must be something. Have you a
                        title?"
                    "I am called Princess."
                    "Can you beat that? Climb up a wall to see some A-rabs
                        perform, and find a real, sure-enough princess, and likewise, if you
                        don't mind my saying so, a pippin."
                    "I don't know what you mean," she
                        said.
                    "A corker."
                    "Corker?"
                    "I mean that you're a good-lookerthat
                        it's no labor at all to gaze right at you. I didn't think
                        they grew them so far from headquarters, but I see I'm wrong. You
                        are certainly all right. Pardon me for saying this to you so soon after we
                        meet, but I have learned that you will never break a woman's heart
                        by telling her that she is a beaut."
                    
                    
                        "Are you a real ingnue, or a
                            kidder?"
                    
                    
                    Kalora leaned hack in her chair and laughed. She was beginning to
                        comprehend the whimsical humor of the very unusual young man. His direct and
                        playful manner of speech amused her, and also seemed to reassure her. And,
                        when he seated himself within a few inches of her elbow, fanning himself
                        with the little straw hat, and calmly inspecting the tiny landscape of the
                        forbidden garden, she made no protest against his familiarity, although she
                        knew that she was violating the most sacred rules laid down for her sex.
                    She reasoned thus with herself:
                    "To-day I have disgraced myself to the utmost, and,
                        since I am utterly shamed, why not revel in my lawlessness?"
                    Besides, she wished to question this young man. Mrs. Plumston had
                        said to her: "You are beautiful." No one else  had ever intimated such a thing.
                        In fact, for five years she had been taunted almost daily because of her
                        lack of all physical charms. Perhaps she could learn the truth about herself
                        by some adroit questioning of the young man from Pennsylvania.
                    "You have traveled a great deal?" she asked.
                    "Me and Baedeker and Cook wrote it," he
                        replied; and then, seeing that she was puzzled, he said: "I have
                        been to all of the places they keep open."
                    "You have seen many women in many countries?"
                    "I have. I couldn't help it, and I'm
                        glad of it."
                    "Then you know what constitutes beauty?"
                    "Not always. What is sponge cake for me may be sawdust
                        for somebody  else. Say, I rode
                        for an hour in a 'rickshaw at Nagoya to see the most beautiful girl
                        in Japan and when we got to the teahouse they trotted out a little shrimp
                        that looked as if she'd been dried over a barrelyou know, stood
                        bent all the time, as if she was getting ready to jump. Her neck was no
                        bigger than a gripman's wrist and she had a nose that stood right
                        out from her face almost an eighth of an inch. Her eyes were set on the bias
                        and she was painted more colors than a bandwagon. I said, 'If this
                        is the champion geisha, take me back to the land of the chorus
                        girl.' And in China! Listen! I caught a Chinese belle coming down
                        the Queen's Road in Hong-Kong one day, and I ran up an alley. I
                        have seen Parisian beauties that had a coat of white veneering over them an
                        inch thick, and out here in this country I have seen socalled  cracker-jacks that ought to be
                        doing the mountain-of-flesh act in the Ringling side-show. So there you
                        are!"
                    "But in your own country, and in the larger cities of
                        the world, there must be some sort of standard. What are the requirements?
                        What must a woman be, that all men would call her beautiful?"
                    "Well, Princess, that's a pretty hard
                        proposition to dope out. Good looks can not be analyzed in a lab or worked
                        out by algebra, because, I'm telling you, the one that may look
                        awful lucky to me may strike somebody else as being fairly punk. Providence
                        framed it up that way so as to give more girls a chance to land somebody.
                        Still, there is one kind that makes a hit wherever people are bright enough
                        to sit up and take notice. Now I suppose that any male being in his right
                        senses would find it easy to look at  a woman who was young enough and had eyes and hair and
                        teeth and the other items, all doing team-work together, and then if she was
                        trim and slender"
                    "Should she be slender?" interrupted Kalora,
                        leaning toward him.
                    "Sure. I don't mean the same width all the way
                        up and down, like an art student, but trim andHere, I'll show you.
                        You will find the pictures of the most beautiful women in the world right
                        here in the ads of a ten-cent magazine. Look them over and you will
                        understand what I mean."
                    He turned page after page and showed her the tapering goddesses
                        of the straight front, the tooth-powder, the camera, the breakfast-food, the
                        massage-cream, and the hair-tonic.
                    "These are what you call beautiful women?" she
                        asked.
                    
                    "These are about the limit."
                    "Then in your country I would not be considered hideous,
                        would I?"
                    "Hideous? Say, if you ever walked up Fifth Avenue you
                        would block the traffic! And in the palm-garden at the Waldorfwhy, you and
                        the head waiter would own the place! Are you trying to string me by asking
                        such questions? Are you a real ingenue, or a kidder?"
                    "I hardly know what you mean, hut I assure you that here
                        in Morovenia they laugh at me because I am not fat."
                    "This is a shine country, and you're in wrong,
                        little girl," said Mr. Pike, in a kindly tone. "Why
                        don't you duck?"
                    "Duck?"
                    "Leave here and hunt up some of the red spots on the
                        map. You know what I meanaway to the bright lights! I don't like to
                        knock your native land but, 
                        honestly, Morovenia is a bad boy. I've struck towns around here
                        where you couldn't buy illustrated post-cards. They take in the
                        sidewalks at nine o'clock every night. That orchestra down at the
                        hotel handed me a new coon song last nightBill
                            Bailey! Can you beat that? As long as you stay here you are hooked
                        up with a funeral."
                    Kalora, with wrinkled brow, had been striving to follow him in
                        his figurative flights.
                    "Strange," she murmured. "You are the
                        second person I have met to-day who advises me to go awayto the
                        west."
                    "That's the tip!" he exclaimed with
                        fervor. "Go west and when you start, keep on going. You come to
                        America and bring along the papers to show that you're a real live
                        princess and you'll own both sides of the street. We'll
                        show you more  real excitement in
                        two weeks than you'll see around here if you live to be a
                        hundred."
                    "I should like to go, hut Look! Hurry, please! You must
                        go!"
                    She pointed, and young Mr. Pike turned to see two guards in haggy
                        uniforms hearing down upon him, their eyes bulging with amazement.
                    "Shall I try to put up a bluff, or fight it
                        out?" he asked, as he stood up to meet them.
                    "You can not explain," gasped Kalora.
                        "Run! Run! They know you have no
                        right here. This means going to prisonperhaps worse."
                    "Does it?" he asked, between his set teeth.
                        "If those two brunettes get me, they'll have to go
                        some."
                    When the two pounced upon him he made no resistance and they
                        captured  him. He stood between
                        them, each of them clutching an arm and breathing heavily, not only from
                        exertion, but also out of a sense of triumph.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    HE DEPARTS
                    And now, in order to give a key to the surprising performances of
                        Alexander H. Pike, it will be necessary to call up certain biographical
                        data.
                    When he was in the Hill School he won the pole vault, but later,
                        in his real collegiate days, he never could come within two inches of
                        'varsity form, and therefore failed to make the track-team.
                    While attending the Institute of Technology he worked one whole
                        autumn to perfect an offensive play which was to be used against
                        "Buff" Rodigan, of the semi-professional athletic-club
                        team. This play was known as "giving the shoulder," with
                        the solar plexus as the  point of
                        attack. The purpose of the play was not to kill the opposing player, but to
                        induce him to relinquish all interest in the contest.
                    Furthermore, Mr. Pike, while spending a month or more at a time
                        in New York City, during his post-graduate days, had worked with Mr. Mike
                        Donovan, in order to keep down to weight. Mr. Donovan had illustrated many
                        tricks to him, one of the best being a low feint with the left, followed by
                        a right cross to the point of the jaw.
                    While the two bronze-colored guards stood holding him, Mr. Pike
                        rapidly took stock of his accomplishments, and formulated a program. With a
                        sudden twist he cleared himself, sprang away from the two, and jumped behind
                        a tree. One soldier started to the right of the tree and the other to the
                        left, so as to close in upon  him
                        and retake him. This was what he wanted, for he had them
                        "spread," and could deal with them singly.
                    He used the Donovan tactics on the first guard, and they worked
                        out with shameful ease. When the soldier saw the left coming for the pit of
                        his stomach, he crouched and hugged himself, thereby extending his jaw so
                        that it waited there with the sun shining on it until the young
                        man's right swing came across and changed the middle of the
                        afternoon to midnight. Number one was lying in profound slumber when Alumnus
                        Pike turned to greet number two.
                    The second soldier, having witnessed the feat of pugilism,
                        doubled his fists and extended them awkwardly, coming with a rush. Mr. Pike
                        suddenly squatted and leaned forward, balancing on his finger-tips, until
                        number two was about to fall 
                        
                            A sound as when the air-brake is
                                disconnected
                        
                         upon him and crush him, and then
                        he arose with that rigid right shoulder aimed as a catapult. There was a
                        sound as when the air-brake is disconnected, and number two curled over
                        limply on the ground and made faces in an effort to resume breathing.
                    Mr. Pike picked up his magazine and put it under his coat. He
                        buttoned the coat, smiled in a pale, but placid manner at Kalora, who was
                        still immovable with terror, and then he proceeded to vindicate his
                        "prep school" training. He ran over to the canopy tent,
                        under which the refreshments had been served, pulled out one of the poles
                        and, pointing it ahead of him, ran straight for the wall.
                    Kalora, watching him, regarded this as a wholly insane
                        proceeding. Was he going to attempt to poke a hole through a wall three feet
                        thick?
                    
                    Just as he seemed ready to flatten himself against the stones, he
                        dropped the end of the pole to the ground and shot upward like a rocket.
                        Kalora saw him give an upward twist and wriggle, fling himself free from the
                        pole and disappear on the other side of the wall, the camera following like
                        the tail of a comet. As he did so, number two, coming to a sitting posture,
                        began to shriek for reinforcements. Number one was up on his elbow,
                        regarding the affairs of this world with a dreamy interest.
                    Fortunately for the Governor-General, the participants in the
                        exploded garden-party had escaped at the very first opportunity.
                    Count Malagaski, greatly perturbed and almost in a state of
                        collapse over the unhappy affair in the garden, was returning to his
                        apartments when the second surprising  episode of the day came to a noisy climax.
                    He heard the uproar and had the two guards brought before him.
                        They reported that they had found a stranger in the garb of an infidel
                        seated within the secret garden chatting with the Princess Kalora. They did
                        not agree in their descriptions of him, but each maintained that the
                        intruder was a very large person of forbidding appearance and terrific
                        strength.
                    "How did he manage to escape?" asked the
                        Governor-General.
                    "By jumping over the wall."
                    "Over a wall ten feet high?" demanded the
                        Governor-General.
                    "Without touching his hands, sir. He was very tall; must
                        have been seven feet."
                    "If you ever had an atom of gray matter, evidently this
                        stranger has beaten it  out of
                        you. Hurry and notify the police!"
                    Kalora's candid version of the whole affair was hardly
                        less startling than that of the guards. The stranger had come over the wall
                        suddenly, much to her alarm. He attempted to converse with her, but she
                        sternly ordered him from the premises. He was exceedingly tall, as the
                        guards had said, and very dark, with rather long hair and curling black
                        mustache. He addressed her in English, but spoke with a marked German
                        accent.
                    This description, faithfully set down by Popova, was carried away
                        to the secret police of Morovenia, said to be the most astute in the world.
                        They were instructed to watch all trains and guard the frontier and, as soon
                        as they had their prisoner safely put away in the lower dungeon of the
                        municipal prison, they were to 
                        
                            Each maintained that the intruder was of
                                terrific sttength
                        
                         notify the Governor-General, who
                        would privately pass sentence.
                    A crime against any member of the ruler's household
                        comes under a separate category and need not be tried in public sessions,
                        for entering a royal harem or addressing a woman of title the sentences
                        range from the bastinado to solitary confinement for life.
                    No wonder Kalora waited in trembling. Like every other provincial
                        she had much respect for the indigenous constabulary. She did not believe it
                        possible for the pleasing stranger to break through the network that would
                        be woven about him.
                    Shunning her father and sister, and shunned by them, she waited
                        many sleepless hours in her own apartments for the inevitable news from
                        beyond the walls.
                    Next morning there came to her a cheering and terrifying
                    message.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    THE ONLY KOLDO
                    Three hours after his pole-vault, Mr. Alexander H. Pike, wearing
                        a dinner-jacket newly ironed by his man-slave, and with a soft hat crushed
                        jauntily down over the right ear, was pacing back and forth in the main
                        corridor of the Hotel de l'Eu-rope waiting for the dread summons to
                        the table d'hote.
                    He had to admit to himself that his nerves seemed to be about as
                        taut as piano wires. He told himself that possibly he was "up
                        against it," and yet he had stood on the brink of disaster so often
                        during his college career without acquiring vertigo, that the experience of
                        the afternoon was like a joyous renewal of youth.
                    
                    He had no set program but he had a feeling that if he was to be
                        questioned he would lie entertainingly.
                    Of one thing he was certainit would help his case if he made no
                        attempt to hurry across the frontier. He believed in the wisdom of hunting
                        up the authorities whenever the authorities were hunting for him. For
                        instance, in the prep school, after getting the cow into the chapel, he
                        discovered her there and notified the principal and was the only boy who did
                        not fall under suspicion. To assume a childlike innocence and to bluff
                        magnificently, these had been the twin rules that had saved him so often and
                        would save him now, unless he should be confronted by the princess or the
                        two guards, in which casehe whistled softly.
                    Suddenly two men came slamming in at the front door and stalked
                        down the  avenue of palms. They
                        seemed to be throbbing with the importance of their errand, as they moved
                        toward a little side office, which was the official lair of the manager.
                    One of the men was elderly and wizened and the other was a
                        detective. Pike knew it as soon as he glanced at the heavy jowls and the
                        broad face and heard the authoritative footfall. He knew, also, that he was
                        not a bona fide detective, but a municipal detective, who is paid a monthly
                        salary and walks stealthily along side streets in citizen's dress,
                        all the time imagining that the people he meets take him to be a merchant or
                        a lawyer. In this he is mistaken, for he resembles nothing except a
                        municipal detective.
                    If Mr. Pike had known that the officer who accompanied Popova was
                        the celebrated Koldo, chief of the secret service,  no doubt the impulse to retreat to his apartment
                        and get behind the bed canopies would have been stronger. He knew, however,
                        that no detective of analytical methods would expect to find the criminal
                        standing at his elbow, so he followed the two over to the office and calmly
                        wedged himself into the conference.
                    The great Koldo was agitated as he told his story to the manager,
                        who was a polite and sympathetic importation from Switzerland. Popova stood
                        by and corroborated by nodding.
                    "An outrage of the most dreadful nature has been
                        reported from the palace," said Koldo.
                    "Dear me!" murmured the manager. "I am
                        so sorry."
                    "A stranger scaled the wall and entered the forbidden
                        precincts. He addressed himself to the Princess Kalora  with most insulting familiarity. Two of the
                        household guards captured him, but he escaped after beating them brutally.
                        The report of the whole affair and a description of the man have been
                        brought to me by the esteemed Popovathis gentleman here, who is court
                        interpreter and instructor in languages to the royal family"
                    Popova nodded and Mr. Pike saw the scattered spires of Bessemer,
                        Pennsylvania, whirling away into a cloud of disappearance.
                    "If you have a description of the man, no doubt you will
                        be able to find him," he said, knowing that this kind of speech
                        would strengthen his plea of innocence when brought out at the trial.
                    The chief of the secret service turned and looked wonderingly at
                        the bland stranger and resumed: "After some reflection  I have decided to make inquiries
                        at all the hotels, to learn if any foreigner answering this description has
                        lately arrived in the city."
                    "You may be sure that any information I possess will be
                        put at your disposal immediately," said the manager, with a smile
                        and a professional bow.
                    The only Koldo, breathing deeply, brought from his pocket a sheet
                        of paper, while Mr. Pike propped himself deliberately against the door and
                        tried to mold his features into that expression of guileless innocence which
                        he had observed on the face of a cherub in the Vatican.
                    "He is very rugged and powerful," said the
                        detective, referring to his notes. "Large, quite largeblack hair,
                        dark eyes with a glance that seems to pierce through anythinglong mustache,
                        also blackwears much jewelryspeaks with  a marked German accentwears a suit of Scotch plaidheavy
                        military boots."
                    Mr. Pike removed his hat and allowed the electric light to
                        twinkle on his ruddy hair.
                    "Howahwhere did you get this description?" he
                        asked gently.
                    "From the Princess herself," replied Popova.
                        "She saw him at close range."
                    "Believe me, I am sorry, but no one answering the
                        description has been at my hotel," said the manager.
                    "Then I shall go to the Hotel Bristol and the Hotel
                        Victoria," announced Koldo, with something of fierce determination
                        in his tone.
                    "An excellent plan," assented the manager.
                    "Would you mind if I butted in with a
                        suggestion?" said Mr. Pike, laying a friendly hand on the arm of
                        the redouhtable  Koldo.
                        "Don't you think it would be better if you went alone to
                        these hotels? This distinguished gentleman," indicating Popova,
                        "is well known on account of being a high guy up at the palace.
                        Sure as you live, if he trails around with you, you will be spotted. You
                        don't want to hunt this fellow with a brass band. Besides, you
                        don't need any help, do you?" to the head of the secret
                        service.
                    "Certainly not," replied the famous detective,
                        swelling visibly." I have all the dataalready I am planning my
                        campaign."
                    "Then I should like to have a talk with
                        Pop-what's-his-name. I think I can slip him a few valuable
                        pointers. You go right along and nail your man and we'll sit here
                        in the shade of the sheltering palm and tell each other our
                        troubles."
                    "I must return to the palace quite  soon," murmured Popova, gazing at the
                        stranger uneasily.
                    "Call a carriage for the professor," spoke up
                        Mr. Pike briskly, to the manager. "I know his time is valuable, so
                        we'll get down to business immediately, if not sooner."
                    The manager knew a millionaire's voice when he heard it,
                        so he hurried away. The impatient Koldo said that he would communicate
                        directly with the palace as soon as he had effected the capture, and started
                        for the front door. Then, remembering himself, he went out the back way.
                    The old tutor, finding himself alone with Mr. Pike, was not
                        permitted to relapse into embarrassment.
                    "In the first place, I want you to know who and what I
                        am," said Mr. Pike. "Come into my suite and I'll
                        show you  something. Then
                        you'll see that you re not wasting your time on a
                        light-weight."
                    He led the way to a large parlor ornately done in red, and pulled
                        out from a leather trunk a passport issued by the Department of State of the
                        United States of America. It was a huge parchment, with pictorial
                        embellishments, heavy Gothic type and a seal about the size of a pie. Mr.
                        Pike's physical peculiarities were enumerated and there was a
                        direct request that the bearer be shown every courtesy and attention due a
                        citizen of the great republic. Popova looked it over and was impressed.
                    "It isn't everybody that gets those,"
                        said Mr. Pike, as he put the document carefully back into the trunk and
                        covered it with shirts. "Have a red chair. Take off your hatah, I
                        remember, you leave that on, don't you?"
                    
                    The old gentleman seated himself, somewhat reassured by the
                        cheery manner of his host, who sat in front of him and beamed.
                    Mr. Pike, supposed to be given to vapory and aimless
                        conversation, really was a general. Already we have learned that he based
                        his every-day conduct on a groundwork of safe principles. He had certain
                        private theories, which had stood the test, and when following these
                        theories he proceeded with bustling confidence. One of his theories was that
                        every man in the world has a grievance and regards himself as much-abused,
                        and in order to win the regard and confidence of that man, all one has to do
                        is feel around for the grievance and then play upon it. Sir. Pike, in his
                        province of employer, had been compelled to study the methods of successful
                        labor-union agitators.
                    
                    "You don't know much about me, but I know
                        plenty about you," he began, closing one eye and nodding wisely.
                        "I hadn't been here very long before I found out who was
                        the real brains of that outfit up at the palace."
                    "Really, you know, we are not supposed to discuss the
                        merits of our ruler," said Popova, fairly startled at the candid
                        tone of the other. He lifted one hand in timid deprecation.
                    "Of course you're not. That's why some
                        one who is simply a figurehead goes on taking all the credit for tricks
                        turned by a smart fellow who is working for him. Now, if you lived in the
                        dear old land of ready money, where the accident of birth doesn't
                        give any man the right to sit on somebody else's neck,
                        you'd be a big gun. You'd have money and a pull and
                        probably, before you got through, 
                        you'd be investigated. Over here, you are deliberately kept in the
                        background. You are the Patsy."
                    "The what?"
                    "The squidgethat means the fellow who does all the
                        worrying and gets nothing out of it. Now, before you return to what you call
                        the palace, and which looks to me like the main building of the Allegheny
                        Brick Works, will you do me the honor of going into that cave of gloom,
                        known as the American bar, and hitting up just one small libation?"
                    "I am not sure that I catch your meaning," said
                        Popova, who felt himself somewhat smothered by rhetoric.
                    "Into the bardown at the little iron tablebusiness of
                        hoisting beverage."
                    "We of the faith are not supposed to partake of any
                        drink containing even a small percentage of alcohol."
                    
                    "I'm not supposed to dally with it myself,
                        having been brought up on cistern water, but I find in traveling that I
                        entertain a more kindly feeling for you strange foreign people when I carry
                        a medium-sized headlight. Come along, now. Don't compel me to tear
                        your clothes."
                    There was no resisting the masterful spirit of the young steel
                        magnate, and Popova was led away to a remote apartment, "where a
                        single shelf, sparsely set with bottles, made a weak effort to reproduce the
                        fabled splendors of far-away New York.
                    "Let's see, what shall we tackle?"
                        asked Mr. Pike, as he cheeked down the line with a rigid forefinger.
                        "If you don't care what happens to you, we might try a
                        couple of cocktailsthat is, if you like the taste of eau de quinine. Oh,
                        I'll tell  you what I
                        Here are lemons, seltzer and gin. Boy, two gin fizzes."
                    The attendant, who was very juvenile and much afraid of his job,
                        smiled and shook his head.
                    "Do you mean to say that you never heard of a gin
                        fizz?" asked Mr. Pike. "All the ingredients within reach,
                        simply waiting to be introduced to each other, and you have been holding
                        them apart. YOU ought to be ashamed of yourself. Bring out some ice. Produce
                        your jigger. Get busy. Hand me the tools and I'll do this
                        myself."
                    Then, while the other two looked on in abashed admiration, Mr.
                        Pike deftly squeezed the lemons and splashed in allopathic portions of the
                        crystal fluid and used ice most wastefully. After vigorous shaking and
                        patient straining he shot a seething stream of seltzer into each  glass and finally delivered to
                        Popova a translucent drink that was very tall and capped with foam.
                    "Hide that, Professor," he said. "In a
                        few minutes you will speak several new languages."
                    Popova sipped conservatively.
                    "Don't he afraid," urged Mr. Pike,
                        encouragingly. "If the boy watched me carefully, possibly he can
                        duplicate the order."
                    The youth was more than willing, for he seldom received
                        instruction. With now and then a word of counsel or warning from the wise
                        man of the west in the corner, he cautiously assembled two other fizzes,
                        while Mr. Pike, in a most nonchalant and roundabout manner, sought
                        information concerning affairs of state, local politics, the
                        Governor-General's household and Princess Kalora. Popova  told more than he had meant to
                        tell and more than he knew that he was telling.
                    It may have been that the fizzes were insidious or that Mr. Pike
                        was unduly persuasive, or that a combination 01 these two powerful
                        influences moved the elderly tutor to impulses of unusual generosity. At any
                        rate, he found himself possessed of an affection for the young man from
                        Bessemer, Pennsylvania. It was an affection both fatherly and brotherly.
                        When Mr. Pike asked him to perform just a small service for him, he promised
                        and then promised again and was still promising when his host went with him
                        to the carriage and said that he had not lived in vain and that in years to
                        come he would gather his grandchildren around him and tell of the
                        circumstances of his meeting with the greatest scholar in southeastern
                        Europe.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    BY MESSENGER
                    On the morning after the strange happenings in the garden, Kalora
                        sat by one of the cross-barred windows overlooking a side street, and envied
                        the humble citizens and unimportant woman drifting happily across her field
                        of vision.
                    Never in all her life had she walked out alone. The sweet
                        privilege of courting adventure had been denied her. And yet she felt, on
                        this morning, an almost intimate acquaintance with the outside world, for
                        had she not talked with a valorous young man who could leap over high walls
                        and subdue giants and pay compliments? He had thrown a sudden glare of
                        romance across her lonesome pathway. The  few minutes with him seemed to encompass everything in
                        life that was worth remembering. She told herself that already she liked him
                        better than any other young man she had met, which was not surprising, for
                        he had been the first to sit beside her and look into her eyes and tell her
                        that she was beautiful. She knew that whatever of wretchedness the years
                        might hold in store for her, no local edict could rob her of one precious
                        memory. She had locked it up and put it away, beyond the reach of courts and
                        relatives.
                    During many wakeful hours she had recalled each minute detail of
                        that amazing interview in the garden, and had tried to estimate and
                        foreshadow the young man's plan of escape from the secret police.
                    Perhaps he had been taken during the night. The greatest good
                        fortune that she could picture for him was a quick 
                        
                            Kalora by the cross-barred window and
                                envied the humble citizens
                        
                         flight across the frontier, which
                        meant that he would never return that she had seen him once and could not
                        hope to see him again.
                    In her contemplation of the luminous figure of the Only Young
                        Man, she had ceased to speculate concerning her own misfortunes. The fact of
                        her disgrace remained in the background, eclipsed not in evidence except as
                        a dim shadow over the day.
                    While she sat immovable, gazing into the street, feeling within
                        herself a tumult which was not of pain, nor yet of pleasure, but a
                        satisfactory commingling of both, she heard her name spoken. Pop-ova was
                        standing in the doorway. He greeted her with a smile and bow, both of which
                        struck her as being singularly affected, for he was not given to polite
                        observances. As he squatted near her, she  noticed that he was tremulous and seemed almost
                        frightened about something.
                    "I have come to tell you that I regret exceedingly the
                        the distressing incident of yesterday, and that I sympathize with you deeply
                        deeply," he began.
                    "It is your fault," she said, turning from him
                        and again gazing into the street. "You taught me everything I do
                        not need in Morovenia. You neglected the one essential. I am not blind. It
                        was never your desire that I should be like my sister."
                    She spoke in a low monotone and with no tinge of resentment, but
                        her words had an immediate and perturbing effect on Popova, who stared at
                        her wide-eyed and seemed unable to find his voice.
                    "You must know that I have been governed by your
                        father's wishes," he said awkwardly. "Why do you
                        "
                    
                    "Do not misunderstand me. I thank you for what you have
                        done. I would not be other than what I am. Tell me the stranger you know,
                        the one in the garden has he been taken?" inquired the Princess.
                    "Taken! Taken! Not even a clue-not a trace! Either the
                        earth opened to swallow him or else Koldo is a dunce. The description was
                        most accurate. By the way, I I had a most interesting conversation regarding
                        the case, with a young man at the Hotel de l'Europe last evening.
                        He is a person of great importance in his own country, also a student of
                        world-politics I he never have I encountered such discrimination in one so
                        young. It was because of my admiration for his talents and my confidence in
                        his integrity that I consented to deliver a message for him."
                    
                    Kalora squirmed in her pillows, and turned eagerly to face
                        Popova.
                    "A message? For me?" she cried, eagerly.
                    "I will admit that the whole proceeding is most
                        irregular, to put it mildly. The young man was so deeply interested in your
                        perilous adventure of yesterday, and so desirous of felicitating you upon
                        your escape, that I yielded to his importunities and promised to deliver to
                        you this letter."
                    He brought it out cautiously, as if it were loaded with an
                        explosive, and Kalora pounced upon it.
                    "I rely upon you to maintain absolute secrecy in regard
                        to my part in this unusual "
                    But Kalora, unheeding him, had torn open the letter and was
                        reading, as follows: 
                        
                            I consented to deliver a message for
                            him
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        MY
                                                DEAR PRINCESS:
                                    
                                    I hope that's the way to begin.
                                        Something tells me that you would not stand for
                                        "Your Majesty" or any of these
                                        "Royal Highness"
                                    Believe me, you are the best ever. I have just
                                        had a talk with the eminent plain-clothes man who is looking
                                        for the burglar that broke into the garden this afternoon
                                        and tried to steal you. He read to me the description. Say,
                                        if I tried to write at this minute all of my present
                                        emotions concerning you, I would burn holes in the paper.
                                        When it comes to turning out fiction, Marie Corelli is not
                                        in the running. Honestly, when Mr. Detective walked into the
                                        hotel this evening, I figured it a toss-up whether I should
                                        ever see home and mother again.
                                    I am only an humble steel-maker, but I am for you
                                        and I want to see you again and tell you right to your face
                                        what I think of you. If you will sort of happen to be in the
                                        garden at 4 p. m. to-morrow (Thursday), I will come over the
                                        wall at the very spot I picked out to-day. I know that this
                                        method of becoming acquainted with young women is not
                                        indorsed by the Ladles'  Home Journal or Beatrice Fairfax, but, as
                                        nearly as I can find out, there is no other way in which I
                                        can get into society over here.
                                    So far as the bloodhounds of the law are
                                        concerned, don't give them a thought. I have met
                                        the great Ivoldo, and he won't know until about
                                        next Sunday that yesterday was Tuesday. The professor has
                                        promised to bring a reply to the hotel. He is not on.
                                    
                                        Sincerely, YOUR GERMAN FRIEND.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    She read it all and found herself gasping surprised, frightened,
                        and moved to a fluttering delight. She had thought of him as skulking in
                        byways, of concealing his name and attempting to disguise himself so that he
                        might dodge through the meshes woven by the invincible Koldo, and here he
                        was, still flaunting himself at the hotel and calmly preparing to repeat his
                        hazardous experiment.
                    
                    "He is a fool!" she exclaimed, forgetting that
                        Popova was present.
                    "I trust the message has not offended you,"
                        said the tutor, decidedly alarmed at her agitation and not understanding
                        what it meant.
                    "I tell you he is a fool a fool!" she repeated.
                        And while Popova wondered, she sprang to her feet and ran to him and gave
                        him a muscular embrace around the tender portion of his neck, for he still
                        squatted after the oriental manner, even though he wore a long black coat of
                        German make.
                    "I consented to bring it because he was most urgent, and
                        seemed a proper sort of person," began Popova, "and not
                        knowing the contents "
                    "Bless you, I am not offended," interrupted
                        Kalora, and then, looking at the 
                        letter again, she burst into happy laughter.
                    The young stranger was unquestionably a fool. She had not dreamed
                        that any one could be so reckless and heedless, so contemptuous of the dread
                        machinery of the law, so willing to risk his very life for the sake of of
                        seeing her again!
                    "If he has been impertinent, possibly you will take no
                        notice of his communication," suggested Popova.
                    "Oh, I must I must at least acknowledge the receipt of
                        it. Common courtesy demands that. I shall write just a few lines and you
                        must take them to him at once. He seems to be a very forward person
                        unacquainted with our local customs, and so I shall formally thank him and
                        suggest to him that any further correspondence would be inadvisable.  That's the really proper
                        thing to do, don't you think?"
                    "Possibly."
                    "Then wait here until I have written it, and unless you
                        wish me to go to my father and tell him something that would put an end to
                        your illustrious career, deliver this message within a hour deliver it
                        yourself. Give it to him and to no one else."
                    Never was a go-between more nonplussed, but he promised with a
                        readiness and a sincerity which indicated that he was keenly aware of the
                        fact that Kalora held him in her power. The minx had read his secret without
                        an effort!
                    Mr. Pike was waiting in the avenue of potted palms when the
                        greatest scholar of southeastern Europe, now reduced to the humble rle of
                        messenger boy, came to him, somewhat flurried and breathless,  and slipped a small envelope into
                        his hand.
                    Popova rather curtly refused to renew his acquaintance with
                        occidental fizzes, and waited only until he had announced to Mr. Pike that
                        the Princess wished to emphasize the advice contained in the letter and to
                        assure the presumptuous stranger that it was meant for his welfare.
                    This is what Mr. Pike read: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            My very good friend:
                                        
                                        I have protected you, not because you deserve
                                            protection, but because I like you very much. You must
                                            not come to the palace grounds again. They are now under
                                            double guard and, if I attempted to meet you, no doubt a
                                            whole company of our big soldiers would surround you and
                                            surely you could not overcome so many powerful men. I am
                                            thinking only of your safety. I beg you to leave
                                            Morovenia at once. Your danger is greater than you can
                                            imagine. What more can I say, except that I shall always
                                            remember you?
                                        
                                            Sincerely,
                                            K.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    
                    Mr. Pike read it carefully three times and then told himself
                        aloud that it was not what he would precisely term a love-letter.
                    "I may have made an impression, but certainly not a
                        ten-strike," he thought to himself, as he folded up the missive and
                        put it into the most sacred compartment of his Russia-leather pocketbook,
                        along with the letter of credit.
                    "I fear me that the incident is closed," he
                        said. "I would stay here one year if I thought there was a chance
                        of seeing her again, but if she wants me to fly I guess I had better
                        fly."
                    That evening, after an earnest controversy with the manager over
                        a very complicated bill, studded with "extras," Mr.
                        Alexander H. Pike, accompanied by dragoman, leather trunks, hat-boxes and
                        hold-alls, drove away to the transcontinental  express, and slept soundly while crossing the dangerous
                        frontier.
                    Possibly he would not have slept so soundly if he had known that
                        at four o'clock that afternoon the Princess Kalora had been idling
                        her time in the palace garden, walking back and forth near the high wall.
                    She had told him not to come, and of course he would not come. No
                        one could be so audacious and foolhardy as to invite destruction after being
                        solemnly warned and yet, if he did come, she wanted to be there to speak to
                        him again and rebuke him and tell him not to come a third time.
                    She went back to her apartment much relieved and intensely
                        disappointed.
                    Such is the perverseness of the feminine nature, even in
                        Morovenia.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    AS TO WASHINGTON, D. C.
                    About the time that Mr. Pike arrived in Vienna, and after Kalora
                        had been in voluntary retirement for some forty-eight hours, the famous
                        Koldo, head of the secret police, came into possession of a most important
                        clue.
                    Having searched for two days, without finding the trail of the
                        criminal with the black mustache and the German accent, he bethought himself
                        of the wisdom of going to the garden where the intruder had engaged in a
                        desperate struggle with the two guards. Possibly he would discover
                        incriminating footprints. Instead, he found some scraps of paper, with
                        printing of a foreign character.
                    
                    By questioning the guards he learned that these tatters had come
                        from a printed book which the mysterious stranger had carried, and which he
                        never relinquished even while reducing his foes to insensibility.
                    Koldo put these pieces of paper into a strong envelope, which he
                        sealed and marked "Exhibit A," and delivered his precious
                        find to the Governor-General.
                    While Mr. Pike sat in Ronacher's at Vienna, watching a
                        most entertaining vaudeville performance, Count Selim Malagaski was in his
                        library, conferring with the wise Popova.
                    "How did he escape?" asked Count Malagaski
                        again and again, shaking his head. "The police have searched every
                        corner of the town, and can find no one answering the description."
                    "Have you questioned Kalora again?"
                    
                    "Yes, and she now remembers that he had a very heavy
                        scar over his right eye. Her description and these few scraps of paper torn
                        from the book he was carrying are all that we have to guide us in our
                        search."
                    The Governor-General held up the several remnants of a ten-cent
                        magazine.
                    "It is in English; I read it badly."
                    He gave the torn pages to the old tutor, and Popova, picking up
                        the first, read as follows:
                    What is the great danger that threatens the American woman? It is
                            obesity. It is well known that
                        ninety-nine per cent, of all the women in the United States are striving to
                        reduce their weight. For all such we have a message of hope. Write to Madam
                        Clarissa and she 
                    "The remainder is torn away," said Popova.
                    
                    The Governor-General had been leaning forward, listening
                        intently. "Do you mean to say that there is a country in which all
                        the woman are fat?" he asked.
                    "It would seem so," replied Popova.
                        "Let us read further." He picked up another of the torn
                        pages and read aloud: 
                            
                                
                                    To the Oatena Company of Pine Creek, Michigan:
                                    When I began using your wonderful health-food I
                                        was a mere skeleton. I have been living on it for three
                                        months and I have gained a pound a day. Permit me to express
                                        the conviction that you are real benefactors to the human
                                        race.
                                    
                                        Gratefully yours,
                                                OSCAR TILBURY, Oakdale,
                                            Arkansas.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    "Stop!" exclaimed the Governor-General,
                        striking the table. "Is it possible that somewhere in this world
                        there is a food which will add a pound a day?"
                    "The testimonial seems genuine," replied  Popova. "It has been
                        sworn to before a notary."
                    "What country is this?"
                    "America, the land of milk and honey."
                    "Both very fattening," commented the
                        Governor-General. "Popova, I have an inspiration. You well know
                        that my situation here is most desperate. I must find husbands for these two
                        daughters, but I dare not hope that any one will come for Kalora until the
                        disgraceful affair has been forgotten and I can absolutely demonstrate that
                        she has developed into some degree of attractiveness. It is better for all
                        concerned that she should leave Morovenia until the present scandal blows
                        over. Now, why not America? It is a remote, half-savage country, and she
                        will be far from the temptations which would beset her at any fashionable
                        capital in Europe. We read  in
                        this magazine that all the women in America are fat. She will come back to
                        us in a little while as plump as a partridge. From the sworn testimonial it
                        would appear that she can obtain in America a marvelous food which will
                        cause her to gain a pound a day. She now weighs one hundred and eighteen
                        pounds. If she remained there a year she would weigh, let me seeone hundred
                        and eighteen plus three hundred and sixty-fiveoh, that doesn't seem
                        possible! That is too good to be true! But even six months, or only three
                        months, would be sufficient. She must be sent away for a while, in the care
                        of some one who will guard her carefully. Read up on America to-night, and
                        let me know all about it
                    Next day Popova, having consulted all the British authorities at
                        hand, reported  that the United
                        States of America covered a large but undeveloped area, that the population
                        was so engrossed with the accumulation of wealth that it gave little heed to
                        pleasures or intellectual relaxation, and that the country as a whole was
                        unworthy of consideration except as the abode of a swollen material
                        prosperity.
                    "Just the place for her," exclaimed the
                        Governor-General. "No pleasures to distract her, an atmosphere of
                        plodding commercialism, an abundance of health-giving nourishment! Perhaps
                        the mere change of climate will have the desired effect. We will make the
                        experiment. She is doomed if she remains here, and America seems to be our
                        only hope. I suppose our beloved Monarch sends a minister to that country.
                        If so, communicate with the Secretary of the Legation and request him to
                        secure secluded apartments  for
                        her and a suite. You shall accompany her."
                    "I?" exclaimed Popova, unable to conceal his
                        joy.
                    "Yes; she must be under careful restraint all the time.
                        What is the capital of the United States?"
                    "Washington. It is a sleepy and well-behaved town. I
                        have looked it up."
                    "Good! You shall take her to Washington. If one of the
                        many civil wars should break out, or there should be an uprising of the red
                        men, she can hurry to the protection of the Turkish Embassy. Let us make
                        immediate preparationsand remember, Popova, that my whole future happiness
                        as a father depends upon the success of this expedition."
                    When Kalora was gravely informed by her father that she and the
                        tutor and a half-dozen female attendants were to be  bundled up and sent away to America, and that she
                        was to do penance, take a dieting treatment, and come back in due time to
                        try and atone for her unfortunate past, did she weep and beg to be allowed
                        to remain at her own dear home? No; she listened in apparently meek and
                        rather mournful submission, and, after her father went away, she turned
                        handsprings across the room.
                    Her utmost dream of happiness had been realized. She was to go to
                        the land of the red-headed stranger where she would be admired and courted,
                        and where, in time, she might aspire to the ultimate honor of having her
                        picture in a ten-cent magazine.
                
                
                
                    X
                    ON THE WING
                    The train rolled away from the low and dingy station and was in
                        the open country of Morovenia. Kalora and her elderly guardian and the young
                        women who were to be her companions during the period of exile had been
                        tucked away into adjoining compartments. Each young woman was muffled and
                        veiled according to the most discreet and orthodox rules.
                    Popova's bright red fez contrasted strangely with his
                        silvering hair, but no more strangely than did this wondrous experience of
                        starting for a new world contrast with the quiet years that he had spent
                        among his books.
                    The train sped into the farm-lands.
                    
                    On either side was a wide stretch of harvest fields, heaving into
                        gentle billows, with here and there a shabby cluster of buildings. If Kalora
                        had only known, Morovenia was very much like the faraway America, except
                        that Morovenia had not learned to decorate the hillsides with billboards.
                    At last she was to have a taste of freedom! No father to scold
                        and plead; no much-superior sister to torment her with reproaches; no
                        peering through grated windows at one little rectangle of outside sunshine.
                        To be sure, Popova had received explicit and positive instructions
                        concerning her government. But Pop-ovapshaw!
                    She unwound her veil and removed her head-gear and sat bareheaded
                        by the car-window, greedily welcoming each new picture that swung into view.
                    
                    "You must keep your face covered while we are in public
                        or semi-public places," said Popova gently, repeating his
                        instructions to the very letter.
                    "I shall not."
                    Thus ended any exercise of Popova's authority during the
                        whole journey.
                    Before the train had come to Budapest all the young women, urged
                        on to insubordination, had removed their veils, and Kalora had boldly
                        invaded another compartment to engage in rapt and feverish dialogue with a
                        little but vivacious Frenchwoman.
                    Two hours out from Vienna, the tutor found her involved in a
                        business conference with a guard of the train. She had learned that the
                        tickets permitted a stopover in Vienna. She wished to see Vienna. She had
                        decided to spend one whole day in Vienna.
                    
                    Popova, as usual, made a feeble show of maintaining his
                        authority, but he was overruled.
                    Count Selim Malagaski, at home, consulting the prearranged
                        schedule, said, "This morning they have arrived in Paris and Popova
                        is arranging for the steamship tickets."
                    At which very moment, Kalora was in an open carriage driving from
                        one Vienna shop to another, trying to find ready-made garments similar to
                        those worn by Mrs. Rawley Plumston. Popova was now a bundle-carrier.
                    The shopping in Vienna was merely a prelude to a riotous
                        extravagance of time and money in Paris. Popova, writing under dictation,
                        sent a message to Morovenia to the effect that they had been compelled to
                        wait a week in order to get comfortable rooms on a steamer.
                    
                    Kalora had the dressmakers working night and day.
                    She and her mother and her grandmother and her great-grandmother
                        and the whole line of maternal ancestors had been under suppression and had
                        attired themselves according to the directions of a religious Prophet, who
                        had been ignorant concerning color effects. And yet, now that Kalora had
                        escaped from the cage, the original instinct asserted itself. The love of
                        finery can not be eliminated from any feminine species.
                    When she boarded the steamer she was outwardly a creature of the
                        New World.
                    From the moment of embarking she seemed exhilarated by the salt
                        air and the spirit of democracy.
                    She lingered in New Yorkmore shopping.
                    By the time she arrived at Washington  and went breezing in to call upon a certain
                        dignified young Secretary, the transformation was complete. She might not
                        have been put together strictly according to mode, but she was learning
                        rapidly, and willing to learn more rapidly.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    AN OUTING A REUNION
                    The Secretary of the Legation at Washington was surprised to
                        receive a letter from the Governor-General of Morovenia requesting him to
                        find apartments for the Princess Kalora and a small retinue. The letter
                        explained that the Governor-General's daughter had been given a
                        long sea-voyage and assigned to a period of residence within the quiet
                        boundaries of Washington, in the hope that her health might be improved.
                    The Secretary looked up the list of hotels and boarding-houses.
                        He did not deem it advisable to send a convalescent to one of the large and
                        busy hotels; neither did he think it proper to reserve  rooms for her at an ordinary boarding-house,
                        where she would sit at the same table with department-employees and
                        congressmen. So he compromised on a very exclusive hotel patronized by
                        legislators who had money of their own, by many of the titled attaches of
                        the embassies, and by families that came during the season with the hope of
                        edging their way into official society. He explained to the manager of the
                        hotel that the Princess Kalora was an invalid, would require secluded
                        apartments, and probably would not care to meet any of the other persons
                        living at the hotel.
                    Within a week after the rooms had been reserved the invalid drove
                        up to the Legation to thank the Secretary for his kindness. Now, the
                        Secretary had lived in modern capitals for many years, was trained in
                        diplomacy, and had schooled 
                        himself never to appear surprised. But the Princess Kalora fairly bowled him
                        over. He had pictured her as a wan and waxen creature, who would be carried
                        to the hotel in a closed carriage or ambulance, there to recline by the
                        windowside and look out at the rustling leaves. He had decided, after hours
                        of deliberation, that the etiquette of the situation would be for some
                        member of the legation to call upon her about once a week and take flowers
                        to her.
                    And here was the invalid, bounding out of a coupe, tripping up
                        the front steps and bursting in upon him like an untamed Amazon from the
                        prairies of Nebraska. She wore a tailor-made suit of dark material, a sailor
                        hat, tan gloves with big welts on the back and stout, low-heeled Oxfords.
                        This was the young woman  who had
                        come five thousand miles to improve her health! This was the child of the
                        Orient, and in the Orient, woman is a hothouse flower. This was the timid
                        young recluse to whom the soft-spoken diplomats were to carry a few roses
                        about once a week.
                    Why had she called upon the Secretary? First, to thank him for
                        having engaged the rooms; second, to invite him to take her out to a country
                        club and teach her the game of golf. She had heard people at the hotel
                        talking about golf. The game had been strongly commended to her by a
                        congressman's daughter, with whom she had ascended to the top of
                        the Washington Monument.
                    When the Secretary, having recovered his breath, asked if she
                        felt strong enough to attempt such a vigorous game,  she was moved to silvery laughter. She told what
                        she had accomplished during three short days in Washington. She had attended
                        two matinees with Popova, had gone motoring into the Virginia hills, had
                        inspected all the public buildings, and studied every shop-window in
                        Pennsylvania Avenue. The Secretary knew that all this outdoor freedom was
                        not usually accorded a young woman of his native domain, and yet he felt
                        that he had no authority to restrain her or correct her. She was a princess,
                        and he was relatively a subordinate, and, when she requested him to take her
                        to the country club, he gave an embarrassed consent.
                    "You have been in America a long time?" she
                        asked.
                    "About three years."
                    "You have met many peoplethat is, the important
                        people?"
                    
                    "All of them are important over here. Those that are not
                        very wealthy or very eminent are getting ready to be."
                    "I am wondering if you could tell me something about a
                        young man I met abroad. I met him only once, and I have quite forgotten his
                        name."
                    "I'm afraid I haven't met
                        him."
                    "He is rather good-looking and has well, red hair; not
                        rusty red, but a sort of golden red."
                    "There are millions of red-haired young men in
                        America."
                    "Please don't discourage me. Now I remember the
                        name of his home. He lived in PennsaPennsylvania, that's
                        it."
                    "Pennsylvania is about four times as large as
                        Morovenia."
                    "But he is very wealthy. He talked as if he had come
                        into millions."
                    "I can well believe it. The millionaires  of Pennsylvania are even as the
                        sands of the sea or the leaves of the forest."
                    "He owns some sort of mills or factorieswhere they make
                        steel."
                    "Every millionaire in Pennsylvania has something to do
                        with steel. Now, if you were searching in that state for a young man who is
                        penniless and has nothing to do with the steel industry, possibly I might be
                        of some service to you. The whole area of Pennsylvania is simply infested
                        with millionaires. Not all of them are red-headed, but they will be, before
                        Congress gets through with them."
                    This playful lapse into the American vernacular was quite lost
                        upon the Princess Kalora, who was sitting very still and gazing in a most
                        disconsolate manner at the Secretary.
                    "I felt sure that you could tell me all about
                        him," she said.
                    
                    "Believe me, if I encounter any young millionaire from
                        Pennsylvania, whose hair is golden-red, I shall put detectives on his trail
                        and let you know at once. You met him abroad?"
                    "At a garden party in Morovenia."
                    "Indeed! Garden parties in Morovenia! And yet that is
                        not one-half as surprising as to find you here in Washington."
                    "You are not displeased to find me here?"
                    "Charmeddelighted."
                    "And you will take me to the country club?"
                    "At any time. It will really give me much
                        pleasure."
                    "I shall drop a note. Good-by."
                    He stood at the window to watch her as she nimbly jumped into the
                        coupe and was driven away.
                    
                    That evening he made a most astonishing report to his intimates
                        of the corps and asked:
                    "What shall I do?"
                    "Do you feel competent to take charge of her and
                        regulate her conduct?"
                    "I do not."
                    "Have you instructions to watch her and make sure that
                        she observes the etiquette and keeps within the restrictions of her own
                        country while she is visiting in Washington?"
                    "Nothing of the sort."
                    "From your first interview with her, do you believe that
                        it would be advisable for any of us to attempt to interfere with her
                        plans?"
                    "Decidedly not."
                    "Then take her to the country club and teach her the
                        game of golf, and remember the old saying at home, that no man was  ever given praise for attempting
                        to govern another man's family."
                    So it was settled that the Legation would not attempt any
                        supervision of Kalora's daily program. And it was a very wise
                        decision, for the daily program was complicated and the Legation would have
                        been kept exceedingly busy.
                    Popova became merely a sort of footman, or modified chaperon. He
                        knew that he had no real authority and seldom attempted even the most timid
                        suggestions as to her conduct. Once or twice he mentioned health-food and
                        dieting, and was pooh-poohed into a corner. As for the women attendants, who
                        had been sent along that they might be the companions of the Princess during
                        the long hours of loneliness and seclusion, they were trained to act as
                        hair-dressers and French maids and repairing seamstresses!
                    
                    Kalora had money and a title and physical attractions. Could she
                        well escape the gaieties of Washington? Be assured that she made no effort
                        to escape them. She followed the busy routine of dinners and balls,
                        receptions and afternoon teas, her childish enthusiasm never lagging. She
                        could play at golf and she seemed to know horseback riding the first time
                        she tried it, and after the first two weeks she drove her own motor-car.
                    The letters that went back to Morovenia were fairly dripping with
                        superlatives and happy adjectives. She was delighted with Washington; she
                        was in excellent health; the members of the Legation were very thoughtful in
                        their attentions; the autumn weather was all that could be desired; her
                        apartments at the hotel were charming. In fact, her whole life was
                        rose-colored, but never a word of  real news for her anxious father and sisternothing about gaining a pound
                        a day. The Governor-General hoped from the encouraging tone of the letters
                        that she was quietly housed, out in the borders of some primeval forest,
                        gradually enlarging into the fullness of perfect
                    About three months after her departure, in order to reassure
                        himself regarding the progress in her case, he wrote a letter to the
                        minister at Washington. He told the minister that his child was disposed to
                        be unruly and that Popova had become careless and somewhat indefinite in his
                        reportsand would he, the minister, please write and let an anxious parent
                        know the actual weight of Princess Kalora?
                    The minister resented this manner of request. He did not feel
                        that it was within the duties of a high official to go  out and weigh young women, so he replied briefly
                        that he knew no way of ascertaining the exact weight of an acrobatic young
                        woman who never stood still long enough to be weighed, but he could assure
                        the father that she was somewhat slimmer and more petite than when she
                        arrived in Washington a few weeks before.
                    This letter slowly traveled back to Morovenia, and on the very
                        day of its delivery to Count Selim Malagaski, who read it aloud and then
                        went into a frothing paroxysm of rage, the Princess Kalora in Washington
                        figured in a most joyful episode.
                    A western millionaire, who had bought a large cubical palace on
                        one of the radiating avenues, was giving a dancing-party, to which the
                        entire blue book had been invited. Kalora went, trailed by the
                        long-suffering Popova. She wore her  most fetching Parisian gown, and decked herself out with
                        wrought jewelry of quaint and heavy design, which was the envy of all the
                        other young women in town, and she put in a very busy night, for she danced
                        with army officers, and lieutenants of the navy, and one senator, and
                        goodness knows how many half-grown diplomats.
                    At two o'clock in the morning she was in the
                        supper-room: a fairly late hour for a young woman supposed to be leading a
                        quiet life. The food set before her would not have been prescribed for a
                        tender young creature who was dieting. She was supping riotously on stuffed
                        olives. Her companion was a young gentleman from the army. They sat beneath
                        a huge palm. The tables were crowded together rather closely.
                    She chanced to look across at the little  table to her right, and she saw a young mana
                        young man with light hair almost ripe enough to be auburn.
                    With a smothered "Oh!" she dropped the olive
                        poised between her fingers, and as she did so, he looked across and saw her
                        and exclaimed:
                    "Well, I'll be"
                    He came over, almost upsetting two tables in his impetuous
                        course. She expected to see him jump over them.
                    He seized her hand and gazed at her in grinning delight, and the
                        young gentleman from the army went into total eclipse.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    THE GOVERNOR CABLES
                    "I don't believe it. It's too good to
                        be true. I am in a trance. It isn't you, is it?"
                    And lie was still holding her hand.
                    "Yesit is."
                    "The Princessah?"
                    "Kalora."
                    "That's it. I
                        was so busy thinking of you after I left your cute little country that I
                        couldn't remember the name. I thought of 'calico'
                        and 'Fedora' and 'Kokomo' and a lot of
                        names that sounded like it, but I knew I was wrong. Kalora
                        KaloraI'll remember that. I knew it
                        began with a 'K.' But what in the name of all that is pure
                        and sanctified are you doing in the land of the free?"
                    
                    "You invited me to come. Don't you remember?
                        You urged me to come."
                    "That's why you notified me as soon as you
                        arrived, isn't it? How long have you been here?"
                    "I forgetthree monthsfour months. Surely you have seen
                        my name in the papers. Every morning you may read a full description of what
                        Princess Kalora of Morovenia wore the night before. For a simple and
                        democratic people you are rather fond of high-sounding titles,
                        don't you think?"
                    "I haven't read the papers, because
                        I'm always afraid I'll find something about myself. They
                        don't describe my costumes, however. They simply say that I am
                        trying to blow up and scuttle the ship of State. But this has nothing to do
                        with your case. It is customary, when you accept an invitation, to let the
                        host know 
                        
                            "Well, I'll
                            be"
                        
                         something about it. In other
                        words, why didn't you drop me a line?"
                    "I will confessthe whole truthsince you have been candid
                        enough to admit that you had forgotten my name. I tried to find you, through
                        the Legation. I described you, butyour nameplease tell me your name again?
                        You mentioned it, that day in the garden. Popova promised to go to the hotel
                        and get it for me, but we were bundled away in such a hurry."
                    "Heavens! Imagine any one forgetting such a name!
                        Alexander H. Pike, Bessemer, Pennsylvania, tariff-fed infant and all-round
                        plutocrat."
                    "Why, of course, Pike, Pikeit is the name of a
                        fish."
                    "Thank you."
                    The young gentleman from the army moved uneasily, and they
                        remembered that he was present. He hoped they  wouldn't mind if he went to look up his partner
                        for the next dance, and they assured him that they wouldn't, and he
                        believed them and was backing away when Popova arrived to suggest the
                        lateness of the hour and intimate his willingness to return to the hotel.
                    His sudden journey to the western hemisphere and his period of
                        residence at Washington had been punctuated with surprises, but the
                        amazement which smote him when he saw Kalora leaning across the table toward
                        the young man who had introduced the gin fizz into Morovenia was sudden and
                        shocking.
                    Mr. Pike greeted him rapturously and gave him the keys to North
                        America, and then Kalora patted him on the arm and sent him away to wait for
                        her.
                    They sat and talked for an hoursat and talked and laughed and
                        pieced out  between them the
                        wonderful details of that very lively day in Morovenia.
                    "And you have come all the way to Washington, D. C., in
                        order to increase your weight?" he asked. "That certainly
                        would make a full-page story for a Sunday paper. Think of anybody's
                        coming to Washington to fatten up! Why, when I come down here to regulate
                        these committees, I lose a pound a day."
                    "I never dreamed that there could he a country in which
                        women are given so much freedomso many liberties."
                    "And what we don't give them, they takewhich is
                        eminently correct. Of all the sexes, there is only one that ever made a real
                        impression on me."
                    "And to think that some day I shall have to return to
                        Morovenia!"
                    "Forget it," urged Mr. Pike, in a low and
                        soothing tone. "Far be it from me  to start anything in your family, but if I were you, I
                        would never go back there to serve a life sentence in one of those
                        lime-kilns, with a curtain over my face. You are now at the spot where woman
                        is real superintendent of the works, and this is where you want to camp for
                        the rest of your life."
                    "But I can not disobey my father. I dare not remain if
                        he"
                    She paused, realizing that the talk had led her to dangerous
                        ground, for Mr. Pike had dropped his large hand on her small one and was
                        gazing at her with large devouring eyes.
                    "You won't go back if I can help it,"
                        he said, leaning still nearer to her. "I know this is a little
                        premature, even for me, but I just want you to know that from the minute I
                        looked down from the wall that day and saw you under the  treewell, I haven't
                        been able to find anything else in the world worth looking at. When I met
                        you again to-night, I didn't remember your name. You
                        didn't remember my name. What of that? We know each other pretty
                        welldon't you think we do? The way you looked at me, when I came
                        across to speak to youI don't know, but it made me believe, all at
                        once, that maybe you had been thinking of me, the same as I had been
                        thinking of you. If I'm saying more than I have a right to say,
                        head me off, but, for once in my life, I'm in earnest."
                    "I'm gladyou like me," she said, and
                        she pushed back in her chair and looked down and away from him and felt that
                        her face was burning with blushes.
                    "When you have found out all about me, I hope
                        you'll keep on speaking to me  just the same," he continued. "I warn
                        you that, from now on, I am going to pester you a lot. You'll find
                        me sitting on your front door-step every morning, ready to take orders.
                        To-morrow I must hie me to New York, to explain to some venerable directors
                        why the net earnings have fallen below forty per cent. But when I return, O
                        fair maiden, look out for me."
                    He would he back in Washington within three days. He would come
                        to her hotel. They were to ride in the motor-car and they were to go to the
                        theaters. She must meet his mother. His mother would take her to New York,
                        and there would be the opera, and this, and that, and so on, for he was
                        going to show her all the attractions of the Western Hemisphere.
                    The night was thinning into the grayness  of dawn when he took her to the waiting carriage.
                        She put her hand through the window and he held it for a long time, while
                        they once more went over their delicious plans.
                    After the carriage had started, Popova spoke up from his dark
                        corner.
                    "I am beginning to understand why you wished to come to
                        America. Also I hare made a discovery. It was Mr. Pike who overcame the
                        guards and jumped over the wall."
                    "I shall ask the Governor-General to give you
                        Koldo's position."
                    An enormous surprise was waiting for them at the hotel. It was a
                        cable from Morovenialong, decisive, definite, composed with an utter
                        disregard for heavy tolls. It directed Popova to bring the shameless
                        daughter back to Morovenia immediatelynot a moment's delay under
                             pain of the most horrible
                        penalties that could be imagined. They were to take the first steamer. They
                        were to come home with all speed. Surely there was no mistaking the fierce
                        intent of the message.
                    Popova suffered a moral collapse and Kalora went into a fit of
                        weeping. Both of them feared to return and yet, at such a crisis, they knew
                        that they dared not disobey.
                    The whole morning was given over to hurried packing-up. An
                        afternoon train carried them to New York. A steamer was to sail early next
                        day, and they went aboard that very night.
                    Kalora had left a brief message at her hotel in Washington. It
                        was addressed to Mr. Alexander H. Pike, and simply said that something
                        dreadful had happened, that she had been called home, that 
                        
                            They were to come home with all speed
                        
                         she was going back to a prison
                        the doors of which would never swing open for her, and she must say good-by
                        to him for ever.
                    She tried to communicate with him before sailing away from New
                        York. Messenger boys, bribed with generous cab-fares, were sent to all the
                        large hotels, but they could not find the right Mr. Pike. The real Mr. Pike
                        was living at a club.
                    She leaned over the railing and watched the gang-plank until the
                        very moment of sailing, hoping that he might appear. But he did not come,
                        and she went to her state-room and tried to forget him, and to think of
                        something other than the reception awaiting her back in the dismal region
                        known as Morovenia.
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    THE HOME-COMING
                    The Governor-General waited in main reception-room for the truant
                        expedition. He was hoping against hope. Orders had been given that Popora,
                        Kalora and the whole disobedient crew should be brought before him as soon
                        as they arrived. His wrath had not cooled, but somehow his confidence in
                        himself seemed slowly to evaporate, as it came time for him to administer
                        the scolding the scolding which he had rehearsed over and over in his mind.
                    He heard the rolling wheels grit on the drive outside, and then
                        there was murmuring conversation in the hallway, and then Kalora entered.
                        His most dreadful  suspicions
                        were ten times confirmed. She wore no veil and no flowing gown. She was
                        tightly incased in a gray cloth suit, and there was no mistaking the
                        presence of a corset underneath. On her head was a kind of Alpine hat with a
                        defiant feather standing upright at one side. Before her father had time to
                        study the details of this barbaric costume, he sat staring at her as she was
                        silhouetted for an instant between him and the open window.
                    Merciful Mahomet! She was as lean and supple as an Austrian
                        race-horse!
                    He could say nothing. She ran over and gave him a smack on the
                        forehead and then said cheerily:
                    "Well, popsy, here I am! What do you think of
                        me?"
                    While Count Selim Malagaski was holding to his chair and trying
                        to sort out  from the limited
                        vocabulary of Moro-venia the words that could express his boiling emotions,
                        he saw Popova standing shamefaced in the doorway. Was it really Popova? The
                        tutor wore a traveling-suit with large British checks, a blue four-in-hand,
                        and, instead of a fez, a rakisn cap with a peak in front. As he edged into
                        the room the young women attendants filed timidly behind him. Horror upon
                        horrors! They were in shirt-waists, with skirts that came tightly about the
                        hips, and every one of them wore a chip hat, and not one of them was veiled!
                    The Governor-General tried to steady himself in order to meet
                        this unprecedented crisis.
                    "So this is how you have managed my affairs?"
                        he said in angry tones to the trembling Popova.
                    
                    
                        Popsy
                    
                    
                    "What is the meaning of this shocking
                        exhibition?"
                    "Don't blame him, father," spoke up
                        Kalora. "I am responsible for whatever has happened. We have seen
                        something of the world. We have learned that Morovenia is about two hundred
                        years behind the times. They knew that you would not approve, but I have
                        compelled them to have the courage of their convictions. You can see for
                        yourself that we no longer belong here. There is but one thing for you to
                        do, and that is to send us away again."
                    "No!" exclaimed her father, banging his fist on
                        the table, and then coming to his feet. "You shall remain hereall
                        of youand be punished! You have ruined your osvn prospects; you have
                        condemned your poor sister to a life of single misery, and you have made
                        your father  the laughing-stock
                        of all Morovenia! If I can not reform you and make you a dutiful child, at
                        least I can make an example of you!"
                    "Stop!" she said very sharply. "Let us
                        not have an unfortunate scene in the presence of the servants. If you hare
                        anything to say to me, send them away, and remember also, father, I have
                        certain rights which even you must respect. Also, I have a great surprise
                        for you. I am beautiful. Hundreds of young men have told me so. Under no
                        circumstances would I permit myself to become large and gross and bulky. You
                        are disheartened because no young man in Morovenia wishes to marry me. Bless
                        you, there isn't a young man in this country worth
                        marrying!"
                    "Young woman, you have taxed my  patience far beyond the limit," said her
                        father, speaking low in an effort to control his wrath. "Hereafter
                        you shall never go beyond the walls of this palace 1 You shall be a
                        waiting-maid for your sister! The servants shall he instructed to treat you
                        as a menialone of their own class! These shameless women are dismissed from
                        my service! As for you" turning upon the old tutor"you
                        shall be put away under lock and key until I can devise some punishment
                        severe enough to fit your case!"
                    That night Kalora slept on a hard and narrow cot in a bare
                        apartment adjoining her sister's gorgeous boudoirquite a change
                        from the suite overlooking the avenue.
                    The shirt-waist brigade had been sent into banishment, and poor
                        Popova was sitting on a wooden stool in a dungeon,  thinking of the dinners he had eaten at Old Point
                        Comfort and wondering if he had not overplayed himself in the effort to he
                        avenged upon the Governor-General.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    HEROISM REWARDED
                    A month later Popova was still in prison, and had demonstrated
                        that even after one has lunched for several months at the Shoreham, the New
                        Willard and the Raleigh, he may subsist on such simple fare as bread and
                        water.
                    Kalora had been humiliated to the uttermost, but her spirit was
                        unbroken and defiant.
                    She was nominally a servant, but Jeneka and the others dared not
                        attempt any overbearing attitude toward her, for they feared her sharp and
                        ready wit.
                    The fires of inward wrath seemed to have reduced her weight a few
                        pounds,  so that if ever a man
                        faced a situation of unbroken gloom, that man was the poor Governor-General.
                    Count Malagaski sat in the large, over-decorated audience room,
                        alone with his sorrowful meditations. An attendant brought him a note.
                    "The man is at the gate," said the attendant.
                        "He started to come in. We tried to keep him out. He pushed three
                        of the soldiers out of the way, but we finally held him back, so he sends
                        this note."
                    A few lines had been written in pencil on the reverse side of a
                        typewritten business letter. The Governor-General could speak English, but
                        he read it rather badly, so he sent for his secretary, who told him that the
                        note ran as follows:
                    You don't know me and there is no need to give my name.
                        Must sec you on important matter 
                        of business. Something in regard to your daughter.
                    "Great Heavens, another one!" said the
                        Governor-General. "There are one thousand young men ready and
                        willing to marry Jeneka and not one in all the world wants Kalora. Send him
                        away!"
                    "I am afraid he won't go," suggested
                        the attendant. "He is a very positive character."
                    "Then send him in to me. I can dispose of his case in
                        short order."
                    A few moments later Count Selim Malagaski found himself sitting
                        face to face with a ruddy young man in a blue suita square-shouldered,
                        smiling young gentleman, with hair of subdued auburn.
                    "I take it that you're a busy man and
                        I'll come to the point," said the young man, pulling up
                        his chair. "I try to be business from the word go, even in matters
                             of this kind. You have a
                        daughter." "I have two daughters," replied the
                        Governor-General sadly.
                    "You have only one that interests me. I have been around
                        a good deal, but she is about the finest looking girl I"
                    "Before you say any more, let me explain to
                        you," said the Governor-General very courteously. "Perhaps
                        you are not entitled to this information, but you seem to be a gentleman and
                        a person of some importance, and you have done me the honor to admire my
                        daughter, and, therefore, it is well that you should know all the facts in
                        the case. I have two daughters. One is exceedingly beautiful and her hand
                        has been sought in marriage by young men of the very first families of
                        Morovenia, notably Count Luis Muldova, who owns a vast estate near the
                        Roumanian frontier. I have another  daughter "who is decidedly unattractive, so much so that she has
                        never had an offer of marriage. I am telling you all this because it is
                        known to all Moro-venia, and even you, a stranger, would have learned it
                        very soon. Under the law here, a younger sister may not marry until the
                        elder sister has married. My unattractive daughter is the elder of the two.
                        Do you see the point? Do you understand, when you come talking of a marriage
                        with my one desirable daughter, that not only are you competing with all the
                        wealthy and titled young men of this country, but also you are condemned to
                        sit down and patiently wait until the elder sister has married,which means,
                        my dear sir, that probably you will wait for ever? Therefore I think I may
                        safely wish you good day."
                    "Hold on, here," said the visitor, who  had been listening intently,
                        with his eyes half-closed, and nodding his head quickly as he caught the
                        points of the unusual situation. "If I can fix it up with you and
                        daughterand I don't think I'll have any trouble with
                        daughterwhat's the matter with my rustling around and finding a
                        good man for sister? There is no reason why any young woman with a title
                        should go into the discard these days. At least we can make a try. I have
                        tackled propositions that looked a good deal tougher than this."
                    "Do you think it possible that you could find a
                        desirable husband for a young woman who has no physical charms and who, on
                        two or three occasions, has scandalized our entire court?"
                    "I don't say I can, but I'm willing to
                        take a whirl at it."
                    
                    "My dear sir, before we go any further, tell me
                        something about yourself. You are an Englishman, I presume?"
                    "Great Scott! You're the first one that ever
                        called me that. I have been called a good many things, but never an
                        Englishman. I'll have to begin wearing a flag in my hat.
                        I'm an American."
                    "American!" gasped the Governor-General.
                        "I am very sorry to hear it. I have every reason for regarding you
                        and your native country as my natural enemies."
                    "You're dead wrong. America is all right. The
                        States size up pretty well alongside of this little patch of
                        country."
                    "I do not blame you for being loyal to your own home,
                        sir, but isn't it rather presumptuous for you, an American, to
                        aspire to the hand of a Princess who could  marry any one of a dozen young men of wealth and social
                        position?"
                    "What's the matter with my wealth and social
                        position? I'm willing to stack up my bank-account with any other
                        candidate. I happen to be worth eighteen million dillars."
                    "Dollars?" repeated the Governor-General,
                        puzzled. "What would that be in piasters?"
                    "It's a shame to tell you. Only about four
                        hundred million piastres, that's all."
                    "What!" exclaimed the Governor-General.
                        "Surely you are joking. How could one man be worth four hundred
                        million piasters?"
                    "Say, if you'll give me a pencil and a pad of
                        paper and about a half-days time, I'll figure out for you what
                        Henry Friek is worth in piasters and then you would have a fit. Why, in the
                        land of  ready money I'm
                        only a third-rater, but I've got the four hundred million, all
                        right."
                    "But have you any social position?" asked the
                        Governor-General. "Any rank? Any title? Over here those things
                        count for a great deal."
                    "I am Grand Exalted Ruler of the Benevolent and
                        Protective Order of Elks," said the visitor calmly.
                    "Really!"
                    "I am a Knight Templar."
                    "A knight? That is certainly something."
                    "Do you see this badge with all the jewels in it? That
                        means that I am a Noble of the Mystic Shrine."
                    "I can see that it is the insignia of a very
                        distinguished order," said the Governor-General, as he touched it
                        admiringly.
                    
                    "What is more, I am King of the Hoo-Hoos."
                    "A king?"
                    "A sure-enough king. Now, don't you worry about
                        my wealth or my title. I've got money to burn and I can travel in
                        any company. The thing for us to do is to get together and find a good
                        husband for the cripple, and fix up this whole marriage deal. But before we
                        go into it I want to meet your daughter and find out exactly how I stand
                        with her."
                    "That will he unnecessary, and also impossible. Whatever
                        arrangements you make with me may be regarded as final. My daughter will
                        obey my wishes."
                    "Not for mine! I am not trying to marry any girl that
                        isn't just as keen for me as I am for her. Why, I've seen
                        her only twice. Let me talk it over with her, and if she says yes, then you
                        can look me  up in Bradstreet and
                        we'll all know where we stand."
                    "I am sorry, but it is absolutely contrary to our
                        customs to permit a private interview between an unmarried woman and her
                        suitor."
                    "Whereas in our country it is the most customary thing
                        in the world! Now, why should we observe the customs of your country and
                        disregard the customs of my country, which is about forty times as large and
                        eighty times as important as your country? Don't he foolish! I may
                        be the means of pulling you out of a tight hole. You go and send your
                        daughter here to me. Give me ten minutes with her. I'll state my
                        case to her, straight from the shoulder, and, if she doesn't give
                        me a lot of encouragement, I'll grab the first train back to Paris.
                        If she docs give me any encouragement, then you'll see  what can be accomplished by a
                        real live matrimonial agency."
                    The Governor-General hesitated, but not for long. The confident
                        manner of the stranger had inspired him with the first courage that he had
                        felt for many weeks and revived in him the long-slumbering hope that
                        possibly there was somewhere in the world a desirable husband for Kalora. He
                        was about to violate an important rule, but there was no reason why any one
                        on the outside should hear about it.
                    "This is most unusual," he said. "If I
                        comply with your request, I must beg of you not to mention the fact of this
                        interview to any one. Remain here."
                    He went away, and the young man waited minute after minute,
                        pacing back and forth the length of the room, cutting nervous circles around
                        the big office chairs,  wiping
                        his palms with his handkerchief and wondering if he had come on a
                        fool's errand or whether
                    He heard a rustle of soft garments, and turned. There in the
                        doorway stood a feminine full moonan elliptical young woman, with half of
                        her pink and corpulent face showing above a gauzy veil, her two chubby hands
                        clasped in front of her, the whole attitude one of massive shyness.
                    "II beg pardon," he said, staring at her in
                        wonder.
                    She tried to speak, but was too much flustered. He saw that she
                        was smiling behind the veil, and then she came toward him, holding out her
                        hand. He took the hand, which felt almost squashy, and said:
                    "I am very glad to meet you."
                    Then there was a pause.
                    "Won't you be seated?" he asked.
                    
                    She sank into one of the leather chairs and looked up at him with
                        a little simper, and there was another pause.
                    "I-I never have seen you before, have I?" she
                        asked, with a secretive attempt to take a good look at him.
                    "You can search me," he replied, staring at
                        her, as if fascinated by her wealth of figure. "If I had seen you
                        before, I have a remote suspicion that I should remember you. I
                        don't think it would be easy to forget you."
                    "You flatter me," she said softly.
                    "Do I? Well, I meant every word of it. Will you pardon
                        me for being a wee bit personal? Are there many young ladies in these parts
                        that are asascorpulent, or fat, or whatever you want to call itthat is, are
                        you any plumper than the average?"
                    "I have been told that I am."
                    
                    "Once more pardon me, but have you done anything for
                        it?"
                    "For what?" she asked, considerably surprised.
                    "I wouldn't have mentioned it, only I think I
                        can give you some good tips. I had a Cousin Flora who was troubled the same
                        way. About the time she went to Smith College she got kind of careless with
                        herself, used to eat a lot of candy and never take any exercise, and she got
                        to be an awful looking thing. If you'll cut out the starchy foods
                        and drink nothing but Kissingen, and begin skipping the rope every day,
                        you'll be surprised how much of that you'll take off in a
                        little while. At first you won't be able to skip more than
                        twenty-five or fifty times a day, but you keep at it and in a month you can
                        do your five hundred. Put on plenty of flannels and wear a sweater.
                    
                    And I'll show you a dandy exercise. Put your heels
                        together this way,"and he stood in front of her,"and try
                        to touch the floor with your fingersso!"illustrating. "You
                        won't be able to do it at first, but keep at it, and it'll
                        help a lot. Then, if you will lie flat on your back every morning, and work
                        your feet up and down"
                    She had listened, at first in utter amazement. Now her timid
                        coquettishness was giving way to anger.
                    "What are you trying to tell me?" she asked.
                    "It's none of my business, but I thought
                        you'd be glad to find out what'd take off about fifty
                        pounds."
                    "And is this why you come to see me?" she
                        demanded.
                    "I didn't come to see you."
                    
                    "My father said you were waiting and f He sent me to
                        you."
                    "Sent you," replied Mr. Pike in frank surprise.
                        "My dear girl, you may be to your folks and your heart may: in the
                        right place, and I don't want to your feelings, but father has got
                        I mixed in his dates. I certainly didn't I come here to see
                        you."
                    As he was speaking Jeneka wriggled j forward in her chair and
                        then arose. She? stood before him, heaving perceptibly.
                    "Your manner is most insulting," she declared.
                        She had expected to be show-with compliments, and here was this fling
                        stranger advising her to be thin! he toddled over to the door and pushed
                        bell. Then she turned upon the bewildered stranger and remarked coldly:
                        {"Unless you have something further to  communicate, you may consider this interview at an
                        end."
                    A servant appeared in the doorway.
                    "Show this person out," said the portly
                        princess.
                    The servant gave a little scream.
                    "Mr. Pike!"
                    "Kalora!"
                    And then he was holding both her hands.
                    "You are herehere in Morovenia? You came all the
                        way?"
                    "All the way! I'd have come ten times as far.
                        Before I left New York I heard about all those messenger boys hunting me
                        around the hotels, but I didn't know what it meant. When I got back
                        to Washington I found your note, and, as soon as I could get Congress calmed
                        down, I startedgot in here last night."
                    "But why did you come?"
                    
                    
                        "Mr. Pike!"
                            "Kalora!"
                    
                    
                    "Can't you guess?" Mr. Pike wasted no
                        time in circumlocution.
                    During this hurried interview Jeneka had been holding a
                        determined thumb against the electric button. The Governor-General, waiting
                        impatiently up the hallway, heard the prolonged buzzing and came to
                        investigate. He found the adorable Jeneka, all trembling with indignation,
                        in the doorway. She saw him and pointed. He looked and saw the distinguished
                        stranger, the man of many titles and unbounded wealth, standing close to the
                        slim princess, holding both her hands and beaming upon her with all of the
                        unmistakable delirious happiness of love's young dream.
                    "What does it mean?" asked the
                        Governor-General. "Is it possible"
                    "He was rude to me," began Jeneka.
                    "He was most insulting"
                    
                    Mr. Pike turned to meet his prospective father-in-law.
                    "You meant well, but you got twisted," he
                        remarked. "This is the one I was looking for."
                    At first Count Selim Malagaski was too dumfounded for speech.
                    "Are you sure?" he asked. "Can it be
                        possible that you, a man worth millions of piasters, an exalted ruler, a
                        Noble of the Mystic Shrine, have deliberately chosen this waspy,
                        weedy"
                    "Let up!" said Mr. Pike sharply. "You
                        can say what you please about your daughter, but you musn't make
                        remarks about the future Mrs. Pike. I don't know anything about her
                        local reputation for looks, but I think she's the most beautiful
                        thing that ever drew breath, and I'd make it stronger than that if
                        I knew how.  You thought I meant
                        the fat one. Well, I didn't, but I hope the agreement goes just the
                        same. And I'll stick to what I said. I'll get the other
                        one married off. It may take a little time, but I think I can find some
                        one."
                    "Find some one?" cried Jeneka indignantly.
                    "Find some one?" repeated her father.
                        "She has been sought by every young man of quality in the whole
                        kingdom. How dare you suggest that"
                    Then he paused, for he was beginning to comprehend that young Mr.
                        Pike had stepped in and saved him, and that, instead of rebuking Mr. Pike,
                        he should be weeping on his breast and calling him "son."
                    Jeneka came to her senses at the same moment, for she saw her
                        dream of five  years coming true.
                        She knew that soon she would be the Countess Muldova.
                    Mr. Pike suddenly felt himself caressed by three happy mortals.
                    "I shall make you a Knight of the Gleaming
                        Scimitar," said the Governor-General. "I have the
                        authority."
                    "Thanks," replied Mr. Pike.
                    "And we can have a double wedding," exclaimed
                        Jeneka, whose ecstasy was almost apoplectic.
                    "We shall be married in Washington," said
                        Kalora decisively. "I am not going to be carted over to my
                        husband's house and delivered at the back door, even if it is the
                        custom of my native land. I shall be married publicly and have twelve
                        bridesmaids."
                    "You may start for Washington immediately,"
                        said her father with genuine enthusiasm.
                    
                    "I shall need a chaperon. Send for Popova."
                    "Good! His punishment shall bepermanent exile."
                    "Nothing would please him better," said Kalora.
                        "Over here he is nothing in Washington he will be a distinguished
                        foreigner. Washington! Washington! To think that all of us are going back
                        there! To think that once more I shall have picklesall the pickles I want to
                        eat!"
                    "We have over fifty varieties waiting for you,"
                        observed young Mr. Pike tenderly.
                    "I have been thinking," spoke up the
                        Governor-General. "I shall apply to the Sultan. He shall make you a
                        Most Noble Prince of the Order of Bosporus. The decoration is a great star,
                        studded with diamonds."
                    
                    "Thanks," replied Mr. Pike.
                    That night the great palace at Morovenia was completely
                        illuminated for the first time in many months.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
