
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. Fables in Slang: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2418
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
                Fables in Slang
                
            
            
            
                
                    FABLES IN SLANG
                
                by
                    GEORGE ADE
                
                 ILLUSTRATED
                    by
                     CLYDE J. NEWMAN
                 PUBLISHED BY HERBERT S. STONE AND COMPANY
                	CHICAGO & NEW YORK
                    MDCCCC
                
            
            
            Verso
                COPYRIGHT, 1899, BY HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
            
            Acknowledgements
                
                    The Author and the Publishers wish to acknowledge the courtesy
                        of VICTOR F. LAWSON, ESQ., in permitting the reissue of these Fables
                        in book form, after their appearance in the columns of THE CHICAGO RECORD.
            
            
            
                Table of Contents
                
                    
                        The Fable of the Visitor Who Got a Lot for Three
                        Dollars 1
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Slim Girl Who Tried to Keep a Date that was Never Made 9
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the New York Person Who Gave the Stage Fright to Fostoria, Ohio 15
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Kid Who Shifted His Ideal 23
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Base Ball Fan Who Took the Only Known Cure 27
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Good Fairy with the Lorgnette, and why She Got It Good 33
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Unintentional Heroes
                            of Centreville 47
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Parents Who Tinkered with the Offspring 53
                        
                    
                        The Fable of How He
                        Never Touched George 59
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Preacher Who Flew His Kite, but not
                        Because He Wished to Do So
                        63
                        
                    
                    
                        The Fable of Handsome Jethro, Who was Simply Cut Out to be a Merchant
                            75
                        
                    
                        The Fable of Paducah's Favorite
                        Comedians and the Mildewed Stunt 83
                        
                    
                        The Fable of Flora and
                        Adolph and a Home Gone Wrong 93
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Copper and
                            the Jovial Undergrads 105
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Professor Who Wanted to be Alone 111
                        
                    
                        The Fable of a Statesman Who Couldn't Make Good 115
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Brash Drummer and the Peach Who Learned that There Were Others 123
                        
                    
                        The Fable of Sister Mae, Who Did as Well as Could Be
                        Expected 135
                        
                    
                        The Fable of How the
                        Fool-Killer Backed Out of a Contract 143
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Caddy Who Hurt His Head while Thinking 147
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Martyr Who Liked the Job 151
                        
                    
                    
                        The Fable of the Bohemian Who had Hard Luck 157
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Coming Champion Who was Delayed 163
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Lawyer Who Brought in a Minority Report 177
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Two Mandolin Players
                            and the Willing Performer 181
                        
                    
                        The Fable of the Man Who Didn't Care for Story-Books 195
                        
                
            
        
        
        
            Fables In Slang
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE VISITOR WHO GOT A LOT FOR THREE DOLLARS.
                    
                        THE Learned Phrenologist sat in his Office surrounded by
                        his Whiskers.
                    Now and then he put a Forefinger to his Brow and glanced at the Mirror to
                        make sure that he still resembled William Cullen Bryant.
                    Near him, on a Table, was a Pallid Head made of Plaster-of-Paris and stickily
                        ornamented with small Labels. On the wall was a Chart showing that the
                        Orangoutang does not have Daniel Webster's facial angle.
                    
                    "Is the Graft played out?" asked the Learned Phrenologist, as he waited. "Is
                        Science up against it or What?"
                    Then he heard the fall of Heavy Feet and resumed his Imitation. The Door
                        opened and there came into the Room a tall, rangy Person with a Head in the
                        shape of a Rocky Ford Cantaloupe.
                    Aroused from his Meditation, the Learned Phrenologist looked up at the
                        Stranger as through a Glass, darkly, and pointed to a Red Plush Chair.
                    The Easy Mark collapsed into the Boarding-House Chair and the Man with more
                        Whiskers than Darwin ever saw stood behind Him and ran his Fingers over his
                        Head, Tarantula-Wise.
                    "Well, well!" said the Learned Phrenologist. 
                        
                            THE LEARNED PHRENOLOGIST
                        
                         "Enough Benevolence here to do a family of
                        Eight. Courage? I guess yes! Dewey's got the same kind of a Lump right over
                        the Left Ear. Love of Home and Friends--like the ridge behind a Bunker!
                        Firmness--out of sight! Reverence--well, when it comes to Reverence, you're
                        certainly There with the Goods! Conscientiousness, Hope, and Ideality--the
                        Limit! And as for Metaphysical Penetration--oh, Say, the Metaphysical
                        Penetration, right where you part the Hair--oh, Laura! Say, you've got Charles
                        Eliot Norton whipped to a Custard. I've got my Hand on it now. You can feel
                        it yourself, can't you?"
                    "I can feel Something," replied the Human Being, with a rapt Smile.
                    "Wit, Compassion and Poetic Talent 
                        
                            HUMAN BEING
                        
                         right here where I've got my Thumb--a Cinch! I
                        think you'll run as high as 98 per cent on all the Intellectual Faculties.
                        In your Case we have a Rare Combination of Executive Ability, or the Power
                        to Command, and those Qualities of Benevolence and Ideality which contribute
                        to the fostering of Permanent Religious Sentiment. I don't know what your
                        present Occupation is, but you ought to be President of a Theological
                        Seminary. Kindly slip me Three Dollars before you Pass Out."
                    The Tall Man separated himself from Two Days' Pay and then went out on the
                        Street and pushed People off the Sidewalk, He thought so well of
                        Himself.
                    Thereafter, as before, he drove a  Truck, but he
                        was always glad to know that he could have been President of a Theological
                        Seminary.
                    Moral: A good -folly is worth What-ever you Pay for
                        it.
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE SLIM GIRL WHO TRIED TO KEEP A DATE THAT WAS NEVER
                        MADE
                    
                        ONCE upon a Time there was a slim Girl with a Forehead
                        which was Shiny and Protuberant, like a Bartlett Pear. When asked to put
                        Something in an Autograph Album she invariably wrote the Following, in a
                        tall, dislocated Back-Hand:
                    
                        "Life is Real; Life is Earnest,
                        And the Grave is not its Goal."
                    
                    That's the kind of a Girl she was.
                    In her own Town she had the Name of being a Cold Proposition, but that was
                        because the Primitive Yokels of a  One-Night
                        Stand could not Attune Themselves to the Views of one who was troubled with
                        Ideals. Her Soul Panted for the Higher Life.
                    Alas, the Rube Town in which she Hung Forth was given over to Croquet, Mush
                        and Milk Sociables, a lodge of Elks and two married Preachers who doctored
                        for the Tonsilitis. So what could the Poor Girl do?
                    In all the Country around there was not a Man who came up to her Plans and
                        Specifications for a Husband. Neither was there any Man who had any time for
                        Her. So she led a lonely Life, dreaming of the One--the Ideal. He was a big
                        and pensive Literary Man, wearing a Prince Albert coat, a neat Derby Hat and
                        godlike Whiskers. When He came he would enfold Her 
                        
                            COLD PROPOSITION
                        
                         in his Arms and whisper Emerson's Essays to
                        her.
                    But the Party failed to show up.
                    Often enough she put on her Chip Hat and her Black Lisle Gloves and Sauntered
                        down to look at the Gang sitting in front of the Occidental Hotel, hoping
                        that the Real Thing would be there. But she always saw the same old line of
                        Four-Flush Drummers from Chicago and St. Louis, smoking Horrid Cigars and
                        talking about the Percentages of the League Teams.
                    She knew that these Gross Creatures were not prone to chase mere Intellectual
                        Splendor, so she made no effort to Flag them.
                    When she was Thirty-Four years of age and was able to recite "Lucile" without
                        looking at the Book she was 
                        
                            FOUR-FLUSH DRUMMER
                        
                         Married to a Janitor of the name of Ernest. He
                        had been kicked in the Head by a Mule when young and believed everything he
                        read in the Sunday Papers. His pay was Twenty-Three a month, which was high,
                        if you knew Ernest.
                    His Wife wore a red Mother Hubbard all during the Remainder of her Life.
                    This is invariably a Sign of Blasted Hopes.
                    MORAL: Never Live in a Jay Town.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE NEW YORK PERSON WHO GAVE THE STAGE FRIGHT TO FOSTORIA,
                        OHIO
                    
                        A NEW YORK man went to visit a Cousin in the Far West.
                    The name of the Town was Fostoria, Ohio.
                    When he came into Town he had his Watch-Chain on the outside of his Coat, and
                        his Pink Spats were the first ever seen in Fostoria.
                    "Have you a Manicure Parlor in this Beastly Hole?" asked the New York Man, as
                        they walked up from the Train.
                    "What's that?" asked the Cousin, stepping on his own Feet.
                    
                    "Great Heavens!" exclaimed the New York Man, and was silent for several
                        Moments.
                    At Dinner he called for Artichokes, and when told that there were none, he
                        said, "Oh, very well," in a Tone of Chastened Resignation.
                    After Dinner he took the Family into the Parlor, and told the Members how
                        much they would Enjoy going to Weber and Fields'. Seeing a Book on the
                        Table, he sauntered up to It and said, "Ah, one of Dick Davis' Things."
                        Later in the Evening he visited the only Club House in Town. The Local
                        Editor of the Evening Paper was playing Pin-Pool with the Superintendent of
                        the Trolley Line. When the New York Man came into the Room, they began to
                        Tremble and fell down on their Shots.
                    
                    
                        NEW YORK MAN
                    
                    
                    The Manager of the Hub and Spoke Factory then asked the New York Man to have
                        a Drink. The New York Man wondered if a Small Bottle was already cold. They
                        said Yes, but it was a Lie. The Boy had to go out for it.
                    He found One that had been in the Window of the Turf Exchange since the Grand
                        Opening, the Year after Natural Gas was discovered. The New York Man drank
                        it, remarking that it was hardly as Dry as he usually got it at
                        Martin's.
                    The Club Members looked at Him and said Nothing. They thought he meant
                        Bradley-Martin's.
                    Next Day the New York Man was Interviewed by the Local Editor. He said the
                        West had a Great Future. In the Evening he attended the Annual 
                        
                            SNAKE CHARMER
                        
                         Dinner of the Bicycle Club, and went Home
                        early because the Man sitting next to him put Ice in his Claret.
                    In due time he returned to New York, and Fostoria took off its White
                        Shirt.
                    Some Weeks after that, the Cousin of the New York Man had an Opportunity to
                        visit the Metropolis. He rode on an Extra Ticket with a Stockman who was
                        shipping three Car-Load of Horses, and got a Free Ticket for every
                        Car-Load.
                    When the Cousin arrived at New York he went to the address, and found the New
                        York Man at Dinner.
                    There was a Sheaf of Celery on the Table.
                    Opposite the New York Man sat a Chiropodist who drank.
                    At his right was a Large Woman in  a Flowered
                        Wrapper--she had been Weeping.
                    At his left was a Snake-Charmer from Huber's Museum.
                    The New York Man asked the Cousin to wait Outside, and then explained that he
                        was stopping there Temporarily. That Evening they went to Proctor's, and
                        stood during the Performance.
                    MORAL: A New York Man never begins to Cut Ice
                            until he is west of Rahway.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE KID WHO SHIFTED HIS IDEAL
                    
                        AN A. D. T. Kid carrying a Death Message marked "Rush"
                        stopped in front of a Show Window containing a Picture of James J. Jeffries
                        and began to weep bitterly.
                    A kind-hearted Suburbanite happened to be passing along on his Way to the
                        5:42 Train. He was carrying a Dog Collar, a Sickle, a Basket of Egg Plums
                        and a Bicycle Tire.
                    The Suburbanite saw the A. D. T. Kid in Tears and it struck him that here was
                        a Bully Chance to act out the Kind-Hearted Pedestrian who is always  played up strong in the Sunday School Stories
                        about Ralph and Edgar.
                    "Why do you weep?" he asked, peering at the Boy through his concavoconvex
                        Nose Glasses.
                    "Oh, gee! I was just Thinking," replied the Urchin, brokenly. "I was just
                        Thinking what chance have I got to grow up and be the Main Stem, like Mr.
                        Jeffries."
                    "What a perverted Ambition!" exclaimed the Suburbanite. "Why do you set up
                        Mr. Jeffries as an Ideal? Why do you not strive to be like Me? Is it not
                        worth a Life of Endeavor to command the Love and Respect of a Moral
                        Settlement on the Outskirts? All the Conductors on our Division speak
                        pleasantly to Me, and the Gateman has come to know my Name. Last year I 
                        
                            THE KID
                        
                         had my Half-Tone in the Village Weekly for the
                        mere Cost of the Engraving. When we opened Locust avenue from the Cemetery
                        west to Alexander's Dairy, was I not a Member of the Committee appointed to
                        present the Petition to the Councilmen? That's what I was! For Six Years I
                        have been a Member of the League of American Wheelmen and now I am a
                        Candidate for Director of our new four-hole Golf Club. Also I play Whist on
                        the Train with a Man who once lived in the same House with T. DeWitt
                        Talmage."
                    Hearing these words the A. D. T. Kid ceased weeping and cheerfully proceeded
                        up an Alley, where he played "Wood Tag."
                    MORAL: As the Twig is Bent the Tree is
                            Inclined.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE BASE BALL FAN WHO TOOK THE ONLY KNOWN CURE
                    
                        ONCE upon a Time a Base Ball Fan lay on his Death-Bed.
                    He had been a Rooter from the days of Underhand Pitching.
                    It was simply Pie for him to tell in what year Anse began to play with the
                        Rockfords and what Kelly's Batting Average was the Year he sold for Ten
                        Thousand.
                    If you asked him who played Center for Boston in 1886 he could tell you
                        quick--right off the Reel. And he was a walking Directory of all the Glass
                        Arms in the Universe.
                    
                    More than once he had let drive with a Pop Bottle at the Umpire and then
                        yelled "Robber" until his Pipes gave out. For many Summers he would come
                        Home, one Evening after Another, with his Collar melted, and tell his Wife
                        that the Giants made the Colts look like a lot of Colonial Dames playing
                        Bean Bag in a Weedy Lot back of an Orphan Asylum, and they ought to put a
                        Trained Nurse on Third, and the Dummy at Right needed an Automobile, and the
                        New Man couldn't jump out of a Boat and hit the Water, and the Short-Stop
                        wouldn't be able to pick up a Ball if it was handed to him on a Platter with
                        Water Cress around it, and the Easy One to Third that ought to have been
                        Sponge Cake was fielded like 
                        
                            THE FAN
                        
                         a One-Legged Man with St. Vitus dance trying
                        to do the Nashville Salute.
                    Of course she never knew what he was Talking about, but she put up with it,
                        Year after Year, mixing Throat Gargle for him and reading the Games to him
                        when he was having his Eyes tested and had to wear a Green Shade.
                    At last he came to his Ninth Inning and there were Two Strikes called and no
                        Balls, and his Friends knew it was All Day with him. They stood around and
                        tried to forget that he was a Fan. His Wife wept softly and consoled herself
                        with the Thought that possibly he would have amounted to Something if there
                        had been no National Game. She forgave Everything and pleaded for one Final
                        Message. His Lips moved. She leaned over and Listened. He wanted  to know if there was Anything in the Morning
                        Papers about the Condition of Bill Lange's Knee.
                    MORAL: There is a Specific Bacillus for every
                            Classified Disease.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE GOOD FAIRY WITH THE LORGNETTE, AND WHY SHE GOT IT
                        GOOD
                    
                        ONCE Upon a Time there was a Broad Girl who had nothing
                        else to do and no Children to look after, so she thought she would be
                        Benevolent.
                    She had scared all the Red Corpuscles out of the 2 by 4 Midget who rotated
                        about her in a Limited Orbit and was known by Courtesy as her Husband. He
                        was Soft for her, and so she got it Mapped out with Herself that she was a
                        Superior Woman.
                    
                    She knew that when she switched the Current on to herself she Used up about
                        6,000 Ohms an hour, and the whole Neighborhood had to put on Blinders.
                    She had read about nine Subscription Books with Cupid and Dove Tail-Pieces
                        and she believed that she could get away with any Topic that she batted up
                        to her and then slam it over to Second in time to head off the Runner.
                    Her clothes were full of Pin-Holes where she had been hanging Medals on
                        Herself, and she used to go in a Hand-Ball Court every Day and throw up
                        Bouquets, letting them bounce back and hit Her.
                    Also, She would square off in front of a Camera every Two Weeks, and the Man
                        was Next, for he always removed the Mole when he was touching up the 
                        
                            THE MIDGET
                        
                         Negative. In the Photograph the Broad Girl
                        resembled Pauline Hall, but outside of the Photograph, and take it in the
                        Morning when she showed up on the Level, she looked like a Street just
                        before they put on the Asphalt.
                    But never you Fear, She thought She had Julia Arthur and Mary Mannering
                        Seventeen up and One to play, so far as Good Looks were concerned; and when
                        it came to the Gray Matter--the Cerebrum, the Cerebellum, and the Medulla
                        Oblongata--May Wright Sewell was back of the Flag and Pulled up Lame.
                    The Down-Trodden Man, whom she had dragged to the Altar, sized Her all right,
                        but he was afraid of his Life. He wasn't Strong enough to push Her in front
                        of a Cable Car, and he didn't have the Nerve to get a Divorce. So he stood
                             for Everything; but in the Summer, when
                        She skated off into the Woods to hear a man with a Black Alpaca Coat lecture
                        to the High Foreheads about the Subverted Ego, he used to go out with a few
                        Friends and tell them his Troubles and weep into his Beer. They would slap
                        him on the Back and tell him she was a Nice Woman; but he knew better.
                    Annyhow, as Bobby Gaylor used to say, she became restless around the House,
                        with nothing to do except her Husband, so she made up her mind to be
                        Benevolent to beat the Band. She decided that she would allow the Glory of
                        her Presence to burst upon the Poor and the Uncultured. It would be a Big
                        Help to the Poor and Uncultued to see what a Real Razmataz Lady was
                        like.
                    She didn't Propose to put on Old  Clothes, and
                        go and live with Poor People and be One of Them, and nurse their Sick, as
                        they do in Settlements. Not on Your Previous Existence! She was going to be
                        Benevolent, and be Dead Swell at the Same Time.
                    Accordingly, she would Lace Herself until she was the Shape of a Bass Viol,
                        and put on her Tailor-Made, and the Hat that made her Face seem longer, and
                        then she would Gallop forth to do Things to the Poor. She always carried a
                        99-cent Lorgnette in one Hand and a Smelling-Bottle in the Other.
                    "Now," she would say, feeling Behind to make sure that she was all strung up,
                        "Now, to carry Sunshine into the Lowly Places."
                    As soon as she struck the Plank Walks, and began stalking her Prey, the small
                            
                        
                            THE BROAD GIRL
                        
                         Children would crawl under the Beds, while
                        Mother would dry her Arms on the Apron, and murmur, "Glory be!" They knew
                        how to stand off the Rent-Man and the Dog-Catcher; but when 235 pounds of
                        Sunshine came wafting up the Street, they felt that they were up against a
                        New Game.
                    The Benevolent Lady would go into a House numbered 1135A with a Marking
                        Brush, and after she had sized up the front room through the Lorgnette, she
                        would say: "My Good Woman, does your Husband drink?"
                    "Oh, yes, sir," the grateful Woman would reply. "That is, when he's working.
                        He gets a Dollar Ten."
                    "And what does he do with all his Money?" the Benevolent Lady would ask.
                    
                    "I think he plays the Stock Market," would be the Reply.
                    Then the Benevolent Lady would say: "When the Unfortunate Man comes Home this
                        Evening you tell him that a Kind and Beautiful Lady called and asked him
                        please to stop Drinking, except a Glass of Claret at Dinner, and to be sure
                        and read Eight or Ten Pages from the Encyclopdia
                            Britannica each Night before retiring; also tell him to be sure and
                        save his Money. Is that your Child under the Bed?"
                    "That's little William J."
                    "How Many have you?"
                    "Eight or Nine--I forget Which."
                    "Be sure and dress them in Sanitary Underwear; you can get it for Four
                        Dollars a Suit. Will you be good enough to have the Little Boy come from
                        under  the Bed, and spell 'Ibex' for the Sweet
                        Lady?"
                    "He's afraid of you."
                    "Kindly explain to him that I take an Interest in him, even though he is the
                        Offspring of an Obscure and Ignorant Workingman, while I am probably the
                        Grandest Thing that ever Swept up the Boulevard. I must go now, but I will
                        Return. Next time I come I hope to hear that your Husband has stopped
                        Drinking and is very Happy. Tell the Small Person under the Bed that if he
                        learns to spell 'Ibex' by the time I call again I will let him look at my
                        Rings. As for you, bear in mind that it is no Disgrace to be Poor; it is
                        simply Inconvenient, that's all."
                    Having delivered herself of these Helpful Remarks she would Duck, and the  Uplifted Mother would put a Nickel in the Can
                        and send Lizzie over to the Dutchman's.
                    In this manner the Benevolent Lady carried forward the Good Work, and Dazzled
                        the whole Region between O'Hara's Box Factory and the City Dump. It didn't
                        Cost anything, and she derived much Joy from the Knowledge that Hundreds of
                        People were Rubbering at her, and remarking in Choked Whispers: "Say, ain't
                        she the Smooth Article?"
                    But one day a Scrappy Kid, whose Mother didn't have any Lorgnette or Diamond
                        Ear-Bobs, spotted the Benevolent Lady. The Benevolent Lady had been in the
                        House telling his Mother that it was a Glorious Privilege to wash for a
                        Living.
                    
                    After the Benevolent Lady went away the Kid's Mother sat down and had a Good
                        Cry, and the Scrappy Kid thought it was up to them. He went out to the Alley
                        and found a Tomato Can that was not working, and he waited.
                    In a little while the Benevolent Lady came out of a Basement, in which she
                        had been telling a Polish Family to look at her and be Happy. The Scrappy
                        Kid let drive, and the Tomato Can struck the Benevolent Lady between the
                        Shoulder Blades. She squawked and started to run, fell over a Garbage Box,
                        and had to be picked up by a Policeman.
                    She went Home in a Cab, and told her Husband that the Liquor League had tried
                        to Assassinate her, because she was Reforming so many Drunkards. That
                        settled it with her--she said she wouldn't  try
                        to be Benevolent any more--so she joined an Ibsen Club.
                    The Scrappy Kid grew up to be a Corrupt Alderman, and gave his Mother plenty
                        of Good Clothes, which she was always afraid to wear.
                    MORAL: In uplifting, get underneath.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE UNINTENTIONAL HEROES OF CENTREVILLE
                    
                        IN Centreville there lived two husky Young Fellows named
                        Bill and Schuyler--commonly abbreviated to Schuy. They did not find any
                        nourishing Excitement in a Grain Elevator, so they Enlisted to Free
                        Cuba.
                    The Government gave each of them a Slouch Hat and a prehistoric Firearm. They
                        tied Red Handkerchiefs around their Necks and started for the Front, each
                        with his Head out of the Car Window. They gave the Sioux Yell to everybody
                        along the Track between Centreville and Tampa.
                    
                    While in Camp they played Double Pedie, smoked Corn-Cob Pipes and cussed the
                        Rations. They referred to the President of these United States as "Mac," and
                        spoke of the beloved Secretary of War as "Old Alger."
                    After more or less Delay they went aboard a Boat, and were landed in Cuba,
                        where they began to Shoot at everything that looked Foreign. The hot Rain
                        drenched them, and the tropical Sun steamed them; they had Mud on their
                        clothes, and had to sleep out. When they were unusually Tired and Hungry,
                        they would sing Coon Songs and Roast the War Department.
                    At last they were ordered Home. On the way back they didn't think of Anything
                        except their two Lady Friends, who worked in the Centreville Steam
                        Laundry.
                    
                    
                        SCHUY
                    
                    
                    They rode into Town with a Machete under each Arm, and their Pockets full of
                        Mauser Cartridges.
                    The first Thing they saw when they alighted from the Train was a Brass Band.
                        It began to play, "See the Conquering Hero Comes."
                    Then eight Little Girls in White began to strew Flowers in their Pathway.
                    The Artillery company ripped out a Salute.
                    Cap Gibbs, who won his Title by owning the first Steam Thrashing Machine ever
                        seen in the County, confronted them with a Red, White, and Blue Sash around
                        him. He Barked in a loud Voice--it was something about Old Glory.
                    Afterward the Daughters of the Revolution took them in Tow, and escorted them
                        to Pythian Hall, where they were  given Fried
                        Chicken, Veal Loaf, Deviled Eggs, Crullers, Preserved Watermelon, Cottage
                        Cheese, Sweet Pickles, Grape Jelly, Soda Biscuit, Stuffed Mangoes, Lemonade,
                        Hickory-Nut Cake, Cookies, Cinnamon Roll, Lemon Pie, Ham, Macaroons, New
                        York Ice Cream, Apple Butter, Charlotte Russe, Peppermint Wafers, and
                        Coffee.
                    While they were Feeding, the Sons of Veterans Quartet stood on the Rostrum
                        with their Heads together, and sang:
                    
                        "Ten-ting to-night! Ten-ting to-night,
                        Ten-ting on the old-ah Camp-ground!"
                    
                    At the first opportunity Bill motioned to Schuyler, and led him into the
                        Anteroom, where they kept the Regalia, the Kindling Wood, and the Mop.
                    "Say, Schuy, what the Sam Hill  does this mean?"
                        he asked; "are we Heroes?"
                    "That's what Everybody says."
                    "Do you Believe it?"
                    "No matter what I Believe; I'm goin' to let 'em have their own Way. I may
                        want to Run for Supervisor some Day.
                    MORAL: If it is your Play to be a Hero, don't
                            Renig.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE PARENTS WHO TINKERED WITH THE OFFSPRING
                    
                        A MARRIED Couple possessed two Boys named Joseph and
                        Clarence. Joseph was much the older. His Parents brought him up on a Plan of
                        their Own. They would not permit him to play with other Boys for fear that
                        he would soil himself, and learn to be Rude and Boisterous.
                    So they kept Him in the House, and his Mother read to him about Little Rollo,
                        who never lied or cheated, and who grew up to be a Bank President. She
                        seemed to think that a Bank President was above Reproach.
                    
                    Little Joseph was kept away from the Public Schools, and had to Play Games in
                        the Garret with two Spindly Little Girls. He learned Tatting and the
                        Herring-Bone Stitch. When he was Ten Years of age he could play Chop-Sticks
                        on the Piano; his Ears were Translucent, and his Front Teeth showed like
                        those of a Gray Squirrel.
                    The other Boys used to make Faces at him over the Back Fence and call him
                        "Sis."
                    In Due Time he went to College, where he proved to be a Lobster. The Boys
                        held him under the Pump the first Night. When he walked across the Campus,
                        they would whistle, "I don't Want to Play in Your Yard." He began to drink
                        Manhattan Cocktails, and he smoked Hemp Cigarettes until he was 
                        
                            JOSEPH
                        
                         Dotty. One Day he ran away with a Girl who
                        waited on the Table at his Boarding House, and his Parents Cast him Off. At
                        Present he has charge of the Cloak Room at a Dairy Lunch.
                    Seeing that the Home Training Experiment had been a Failure in the case of
                        Joseph, the Parents decided to give Clarence a large Measure of Liberty,
                        that he might become Acquainted with the Snares and Temptations of the World
                        while he was Young, and thus be Prepared to side-step the Pitfalls when he
                        was Older. They sent him to the Public Schools; they allowed him to roam at
                        large with other Kids, and stay out at Nights; they kept Liquor on the
                        Sideboard.
                    Clarence stood in with the Toughest Push in Town, and thus became acquainted
                            
                        
                            CLARENCE
                        
                         with the Snares and Temptations of the World.
                        He learned to Chew Tobacco and Spit through his Teeth, shoot Craps and Rush
                        the Can.
                    When his Father suggested that he enter some Business House, and become a
                        Credit to the Family, he growled like a Boston Terrier, and told his Father
                        to go Chase Himself.
                    At present, he is working the Shells with a Circus.
                    MORAL: It all depends.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF HOW HE NEVER TOUCHED GEORGE
                    
                        A COMIC Lover named George was sitting on the Front Porch
                        with a good Side Hold on your old friend Mabel. They were looking into each
                        other's Eyes at Close Range and using a rancid Line of Nursery Talk.
                    It was the kind of Conversation calculated to Jar a Person.
                    George murmured that Mabel was George's own Baby-Daby and she Allowed that he
                        was a Tooney-Wooney Ittle Bad Boy to hold his Itsy-Bitsy Bun of a Mabel so
                        tight she could  hardly breave. It was a sort
                        of Dialogue that Susan B. Anthony would love to sit up Nights to Read.
                    While they were Clinched, Mabel's Father, a large, Self-Made Man, came down
                        the Stairway and out to the Veranda.
                    This is where the Fable begins to Differentiate.
                    Although the Girl's name was Mabel and the Young Man's name was George, and
                        the Father was a Self-Made Man, the Father did not Kick
                        the Young Man.
                    He asked him if he had Anything to Smoke.
                    George gave him an Imported Panetella and said He didn't believe it was going
                        to Rain. Mabel's Father said it looked Black in the West, but he Reckoned
                            
                        
                            MABEL'S FATHER
                        
                         it might blow around, like as not. Mabel said
                        she wouldn't be a bit Surprised if it did blow around.
                    Mabel's Father told Mabel she could show George where the Ice-Box wuz in case
                        he Expressed a Hankerin', and then he went down street to examine some
                        Fishing Tackle just purchased by a Friend of his in the Hay and Feed
                        Business. Just as Father struck the Cement Walk George changed to the
                        Strangle Hold.
                    MORAL: The Exception proves the Rule.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE PREACHER WHO FLEW HIS KITE, BUT NOT BECAUSE HE WISHED TO
                        DO SO
                    
                        A CERTAIN Preacher became wise to the Fact that he was not
                        making a Hit with his Congregation. The Parishioners did not seem inclined
                        to seek him out after Services and tell him he was a Pansy. He suspected
                        that they were Rapping him on the Quiet.
                    The Preacher knew there must be something wrong with his Talk. He had been
                        trying to Expound in a clear and straightforward Manner, omitting Foreign
                        Quotations, setting up for illustration  of his
                        Points such Historical Characters as were familiar to his Hearers, putting
                        the stubby Old English words ahead of the Latin, and rather flying low along
                        the Intellectual Plane of the Aggregation that chipped in to pay his
                        Salary.
                    But the Pew-Holders were not tickled. They could Understand everything he
                        said, and they began to think he was Common.
                    So he studied the Situation and decided that if he wanted to Win them and
                        make everybody believe he was a Nobby and Boss Minister he would have to
                        hand out a little Guff. He fixed it up Good and Plenty.
                    On the following Sunday Morning he got up in the Lookout and read a Text that
                        didn't mean anything, read 
                        
                            GUFF
                        
                         from either Direction, and then he sized up
                        his Flock with a Dreamy Eye and said: "We cannot more adequately voice the
                        Poetry and Mysticism of our Text than in those familiar Lines of the great
                        Icelandic Poet, Ikon Navrojk:
                    
                        "To hold is not to have
                        Under the seared Firmament,
                        Where Chaos sweeps, and Vast Futurity
                        Sneers at these puny Aspirations
                        There is the full Reprisal."
                    
                    When the Preacher concluded this Extract from the Well-Known Icelandic Poet
                        he paused and looked downward, breathing heavily through his Nose, like
                        Camille in the Third Act.
                    A Stout Woman in the Front Row put on her Eye-Glasses and leaned forward so
                        as not to miss Anything. A Venerable Harness Dealer over at the 
                        
                            GOOD AND PLENTY
                        
                         Right nodded his Head solemnly. He seemed to
                        recognize the Quotation. Members of the Congregation glanced at one another
                        as if to say: "This is certainly Hot Stuff!"
                    The Preacher wiped his Brow and said he had no Doubt that every one within
                        the Sound of his Voice remembered what Quarolius had said, following the
                        same Line of Thought. It was Quarolius who disputed the Contention of the
                        great Persian Theologian Ramtazuk, that the Soul in its reaching out after
                        the Unknowable was guided by the Spiritual Genesis of Motive rather than by
                        mere Impulse of Mentality. The Preacher didn't know what all This meant, and
                        he didn't care, but you can rest easy that the Pew-Holders were On in a
                        minute. He talked it off in just 
                        
                            VENERABLE HARNESS DEALER
                        
                         the Way that Cyrano talks when he gets Roxane
                        so Dizzy that she nearly falls off the Piazza.
                    The Parishioners bit their Lower Lips and hungered for more First-Class
                        Language. They had paid their Money for Tall Talk and were prepared to solve
                        any and all Styles of Delivery. They held on to the Cushions and seemed to
                        be having a Nice Time.
                    The Preacher quoted copiously from the Great Poet Amebius. He recited 18
                        lines of Greek and then said: "How true this is!" And not a Parishioner
                        batted an Eye.
                    It was Amebius whose Immortal Lines he recited in order to prove the Extreme
                        Error of the Position assumed in the Controversy by the Famous Italian,
                        Polenta.
                    
                    He had them Going, and there wasn't a Thing to it. When he would get tired of
                        faking Philosophy he would quote from a Celebrated Poet of Ecuador or
                        Tasmania or some other Seaport Town. Compared with this Verse, all of which
                        was of the same School as the Icelandic Masterpiece, the most obscure and
                        clouded Passage in Robert Browning was like a Plate-Glass Front in a State
                        Street Candy Store just after the Colored Boy gets through using the
                        Chamois.
                    After that he became Eloquent, and began to get rid of long Boston Words that
                        hadn't been used before that Season. He grabbed a rhetorical Roman Candle in
                        each Hand and you couldn't see him for the Sparks.
                    After which he sunk his Voice to  a Whisper and
                        talked about the Birds and the Flowers. Then, although there was no Cue for
                        him to Weep, he shed a few real Tears. And there wasn't a dry Glove in the
                        Church.
                    After he sat down he could tell by the Scared Look of the People in Front
                        that he had made a Ten-Strike.
                    Did they give him the Joyous Palm that Day? Sure!
                    The Stout Lady could not control her Feelings when she told how much the
                        Sermon had helped her. The venerable Harness Dealer said he wished to
                        indorse the Able and Scholarly Criticism of Polenta.
                    In fact, every one said the Sermon was Superfine and Dandy. The only thing
                        that worried the Congregation was the Fear that if it wished to retain such
                            
                        
                            THE JOYOUS PALM
                        
                         a Whale it might have to Boost his Salary.
                    In the Meantime the Preacher waited for some one to come and ask about
                        Polenta, Amebius, Ramtazuk, Quarolius and the great Icelandic Poet, Navrojk.
                        But no one had the Face to step up and confess his Ignorance of these
                        Celebrities. The Pew-Holders didn't even admit among themselves that the
                        Preacher had rung in some New Ones. They stood Pat, and merely said it was
                        an Elegant Sermon.
                    Perceiving that they would stand for Anything, the Preacher knew what to do
                        after that.
                    MORAL: Give the People what they Think they
                            want.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF HANDSOME JETHRO, WHO WAS SIMPLY CUT OUT TO BE A
                        MERCHANT
                    
                        AN Illinois Squab came home from Business College with a
                        Zebra Collar and a pair of Tan Shoes big enough for a Coal Miner. When he
                        alighted from the depot one of Ezry Folloson's Dray Horses fell over,
                        stricken with the Cramp Colic. The usual Drove of Prominent Citizens who had
                        come down to see that the Train got in and out all right backed away from
                        the Educated Youth and Chewed their Tobacco in Shame and Abashment. They
                        knew that they did not belong on the same Platform with  One who had been up yender in Chicago for goin' on Twelve weeks
                        finding out how to be a Business Man. By Heck!
                    An elderly Man approached the Youth who had lately got next to the Rules of
                        Commerce. The elderly Man was a Yap. He wore a Hickory Shirt, a discouraged
                        Straw Hat, a pair of Barn-Door Pants clinging to one lonely Gallus and
                        woolen Socks that had settled down over his Plow Shoes. He was shy several
                        Teeth and on his Chin was a Tassel shaped like a Whisk-Broom. If you had
                        thrown a Pebble into this Clump of Whiskers probably you would have scared
                        up a Field Mouse and a couple of Meadow Larks.
                    "Home agin, Jethro, be ye?" asked the Parent.
                    
                    
                        JETHRO
                    
                    
                    "Yeh," replied the Educated Youth. With that he pulled the Corner of a Sassy
                        Silk Handkerchief out of his upper Coat Pocket and ignited a Cigarette that
                        smelt like Burning Leaves in the Fall.
                    The Business Man went Home, and the Parent followed at a Respectful Distance,
                        now and then remarking to Himself: "Well, I'll jest swan to Guinney!"
                    Brother Lyford came in from the East Eighty to get his Dinner, and there was
                        Jethro in the Hammock reading a Great Work by Archibald Clavering
                        Gunter.
                    "Git into some Overhauls an' come an' he'p Me this Afternoon," said
                        Lyford.
                    "Oh, rats! Not on your Tintype!
                    
                    
                        PAW
                    
                    
                    I'm too strong to work," replied Jethro, who had learned Oodles of slang up
                        in Chicago, don't you forget it.
                    So he wouldn't Stand for the Harvest Field that afternoon. In the Evening
                        when Paw ast him to Milk he let out an Awful Beller. Next Morning he made a
                        Horrible Beef because he couldn't get Loaf Sugar for his Coffee.
                    Shortly after Breakfast his Paw lured him into the Barn and Lit on him. He
                        got a good Holt on the Adam's Apple and choked the Offspring unti his Tongue
                        stuck out like a Pistil.
                    "You dosh-burned little Pin-Head o' Misery, you!" exclaimed the Old Man.
                        "Goll bing me if I think you're wuth the Powder to blow you up. You peel
                        them Duds an' git to Work or else mosey right off o' this Farm."
                    
                    The Son's Feelings were so outraged by this Brutal Treatment that he left the
                        Farm that Day and accepted a position in a Five and Ten-Cent Store, selling
                        Kitchen Utensils that were made of Tin-Foil and Wooden Ware that had been
                        painted in Water Colors. He felt that he was particularly adapted for a
                        Business Career, and, anyway, he didn't propose to go out on No Man's Farm
                        and sweat down his Collar.
                    After Ten Years of Unremitting Application and Studious Frugality the
                        Business Man had acquired in Real Estate, Personal Property, Stocks, Bonds,
                        Negotiable Paper, and other Collateral, the sum of Nineteen Dollars, but he
                        owed a good deal more than that. Brother Lyford had continued to be a rude
                        and unlettered Country Jake. He had 240  acres
                        of crackin' Corn Land (all tiled), a big red Barn, four Span of good Horses,
                        sixteen Head of Cattle, a likely bunch of Shoats and a Covered Buggy.
                    MORAL: Drink Deep, or Cut Out the Pierian
                            Spring Altogether.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF PADUCAH'S FAVORITE COMEDIANS AND THE MILDEWED STUNT
                    
                        ONCE Upon a Time there was a Specialty Team doing
                        Seventeen Minutes. The Props used in the Act included a Hatchet, a Brick, a
                        Seltzer Bottle, two inflated Bladders and a Slap-Stick. The Name of the Team
                        was Zoroaster and Zendavesta.
                    These two Troupers began their Professional Career with a Road Circus,
                        working on Canvas in the Morning, and then doing a Refined Knockabout in the
                        Grand Concert or Afterpiece taking  place in
                        the Main Arena immediately after the big Show is over.
                    When each of them could Kick Himself in the Eye and Slattery had pickled his
                        Face so that Stebbins could walk on it, they decided that they were too good
                        to show under a Round Top, so they became Artists. They wanted a Swell Name
                        for the Team, so the Side-Show Announcer, who was something of a Kidder and
                        had attended a Unitarian College, gave them Zoroaster and Zendavesta. They
                        were Stuck on it, and had a Job Printer do some Cards for them.
                    By utilizing two of Pat Rooney's Songs and stealing a few Gags, they put
                        together Seventeen Minutes and began to play Dates and Combinations.
                    Zoroaster bought a Cane with a Silver 
                        
                            ZOROASTER
                        
                         Dog's Head on it, and Zendavesta had a Watch
                        Charm that pulled the Buttonholes out of his Vest.
                    After every Show, as soon as they Washed Up, they went and stood in front of
                        the Theater, so as to give the Hired Girls a Treat, or else they stood
                        around in the Sawdust and told their Fellow-Workers in the Realm of Dramatic
                        Art how they killed 'em in Decatur and had 'em hollerin' in Lowell, Mass.,
                        and got every Hand in the House at St. Paul. Occasionally they would put a
                        Card in the Clipper, saying that they were the Best in the Business, Bar
                        None, and Good Dressers on and off the Stage. Regards to Leonzo Brothers.
                        Charley Diamond please write.
                    They didn't have to study no New Gags or work up no more Business,  becuz they had the Best Act on Earth to begin
                        with. Lillian Russell was jealous of them and they used to know Francis
                        Wilson when he done a Song and Dance.
                    They had a Scrap Book with a Clipping from a Paducah Paper, which said that
                        they were better than Nat Goodwin. When some Critic who had been bought up
                        by Rival Artists wrote that Zoroaster and Zendavesta ought to be on an Ice
                        Wagon instead of on the Stage, they would get out the Scrap Book and read
                        that Paducah Notice and be thankful that all Critics wasn't Cheap Knockers
                        and that there was one Paper Guy in the United States that reckanized a Neat
                        Turn when he seen it.
                    But Zoroaster and Zendavesta didn't know that the Dramatic Editor of the  Paducah Paper went to a Burgoo Picnic the Day
                        the Actors came to Town, and didn't get back until Midnight, so he wrote his
                        Notice of the Night Owls' performance from a Programme brought to him by the
                        Head Usher at the Opera House, who was also Galley Boy at the Office.
                    Zoroaster and Zendavesta played the same Sketch for Seventeen Years and made
                        only two important Changes in all that Time. During the Seventh Season
                        Zoroaster changed his Whiskers from Green to Blue. At the beginning of the
                        Fourteenth Year of the Act they bought a new Slap-Stick and put a Card in
                        the Clipper warning the Public to beware of Imitators.
                    All during the Seventeen Years Zoroaster and Zendavesta continued to walk 
                        
                            ZENDAVESTA
                        
                         Chesty and tell People how Good they were.
                        They never could Understand why the Public stood for Mansfield when it could
                        get Zoroaster and Zendavesta. The Property Man gave it as his Opinion that
                        Mansfield conned the Critics. Zendavesta said there was only one Critic on
                        the Square, and he was at Paducah.
                    When the Vodeville Craze came along Zoroaster and Zendavesta took their
                        Paducah Scrap Book over to a Manager, and he Booked them. Zoroaster assured
                        the Manager that Him and his Partner done a Refined Act, suitable for Women
                        and Children, with a strong Finish, which had been the Talk of all
                        Galveston. The Manager put them in between the Trained Ponies and a Legit
                        with a Bad Cold. When a  Legit loses his Voice
                        he goes into Vodeville.
                    Zoroaster and Zendavesta came on very Cocky, and for the 7,800th Time
                        Zoroaster asked Zendavesta:
                    "Who wuz it I seen you comin' up the Street with?"
                    Then, for the 7,800th Time, by way of Mirth-Provoking Rejoinder, Zendavesta
                        kicked Zoroaster in the Stomach, after which the Slap-Stick was introduced
                        as a Sub-Motive.
                    The Manager gave a Sign and the Stage Hands Closed in on the Best Team in the
                        Business, Bar None.
                    Of course Zoroaster and Zendavesta were very sore at having their Act killed.
                        They said it was no way to treat Artists. The Manager told them they were
                        too Tart for words to tell it and to  consider
                        Themselves set back into the Supper Show. Then They saw through the whole
                        Conspiracy. The Manager was Mansfield's Friend and Mansfield was out with
                        his Hammer.
                    At Present they are doing Two Supper Turns to the Piano Player and a Day
                        Watchman. They are still the Best in the Business, but are being used Dead
                        Wrong. However, they derive some Comfort reading the Paducah Notice.
                    MORAL: A Dramatic Editor should never go to a
                            Burgoo Picnicespecially in Kentucky.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF FLORA AND ADOLPH AND A HOME GONE WRONG
                    
                        ONE morning a Modern Solomon, who had been chosen to
                        preside as Judge in a Divorce Mill, climbed to his Perch and unbuttoned his
                        Vest for the Wearisome Grind. He noticed that the first Case looming up on
                        the Docket was that of Flora Botts vs. Adolph Botts.
                    The Applicant, Mrs. Botts, and Adolph, the Other Half of the Domestic Sketch,
                        were already inside the Railing, each attempting to look the other out of
                        Countenance.
                    
                    "Break!" ordered the Judge. "Don't act as if you were at Home. Now, what has
                        Adolph been doing?"
                    It seemed that she alleged Cruelty, Neglect, Inhuman Treatment, Violent
                        Temper, Threats, etc., etc.
                    "We have no Chills-and-Fever Music to lend Effect to the Sad Narrative you
                        are about to Spring," said the Judge, looking down at the Plaintiff, who
                        belonged to the Peroxide Tribe. "Furthermore, we will take it for granted
                        that when you first met Defendant your Innocence and Youth made it a
                        Walkaway for his Soft Approaches, and that you had every Reason to believe
                        that he was a Perfect Gentleman. Having disposed of these Preliminaries, let
                        us have the Plot of the Piece."
                    So she told her Story in a Tremulous, 
                        
                            MODERN SOLOMON
                        
                         Viola Allen kind of Voice, while her Lawyer
                        wept.
                    He was ready to Weep for anyone who would hand him $8. Afterthought--make it
                        $7.50.
                    It was a Dark Tale of how Botts, the Viperish Defendant, had Sneered at her,
                        called her Oh-Such-Names, humiliated her in the presence of Callers, and
                        nagged her with Sarcastic Comments until her Tender Sensibilities had been
                        worn to a Frazzle.
                    Then the Defendant went on the Stand and entered a General Denial. He had
                        been all that a Rattling Good Husband could be, but she had been a regular
                        Rudyard Kipling Vampire. She had continued to make his Life one lingering
                        Day-After of Regret. His Record for Patience and Long-Suffering 
                        
                            THE VIPER
                        
                         had made Job's Performance look like an
                        Amateur's Half-Try.
                    "There is more in this Case than appears on the Surface," said the Modern
                        Solomon. "In order to fix the Blame we shall have to dig up the First Cause.
                        I will ask Chemical Flora to tell us the Story of her Past Life."
                    "My Parents were Poor, but Refined," said Mrs. Botts. "They gave me Every
                        Advantage. After I finished the High School I attended a Conservatory, and
                        every one said I had Talent. I should have been an Elocutionist. Once I went
                        to Rockford and recited "The Tramp's Story" at a Club Social, and I got a
                        Lovely Notice. I am especially good at Dialect Recitations."
                    "Humorous?" asked the Court.
                    "Yes, sir; but I can turn right 
                        
                            CHEMICAL FLORA
                        
                         around and be Pathetic all of a sudden, if I
                        want to be."
                    "I suppose that Botts, after he had lived with you for awhile, didn't have
                        any Hankering Desire to hear you Recite," suggested the Modern Solomon.
                    "That's just it. When I'd offer to get up in Company and speak Something he'd
                        ask me please not to Recite, and if I had to make a Show of myself, for
                        God's Sake not to tackle anything Humorous, with a Conservatory Dialect to
                        it."
                    "But you wouldn't let him Stop you?"
                    "Not on your Life."
                    "I'd believe you, even if you wasn't under Oath. Now, will Mr. Botts answer
                        me one Question? Has he any Ambition on the Side?"
                    
                    "Although I am a Bookkeeper for a Gravel-Roofing Concern, I have always
                        believed I could Write," replied Adolph Botts. "About four years ago I began
                        to prepare the Book for a Comic Opera. A Friend of mine who works in a Hat
                        Store was to Compose the Music. I think he has more Ability than Victor
                        Herbert."
                    "Did this Friend think Well of your Libretto?" asked the Wise Judge.
                    "Yes, sir; he said it was the Best Thing that had been done since 'Erminie.'
                        In fact, everybody liked my Book."
                    "Except your Wife," suggested the Court.
                    "That's it, exactly. I wanted Sympathy and Encouragement and she gave me the
                        Metallic Laugh. There is one  Patter Song in
                        my Opera that Every One who comes to my House has been Crazy to hear.
                        Whenever I started to Sing it she would talk in a loud Voice. She never
                        seemed to Appreciate my Stuff. I think the Bleach affected her Head."
                    "Has the Opera been produced?" asked the Court, with Humane Hesitancy.
                    "No, the Eastern Managers were all tied up with Harry B. Smith," replied Mr.
                        Botts. "Then there's a Prejudice against Western Talent."
                    "Well, Mr. Botts, in View of all the Evidence, I have decided to give you a
                        Decree of Divorce from Flo of the Wheaten Tresses," said the Modern
                        Solomon.
                    "But look here!" exclaimed the Defendant,  "I
                        haven't applied for any Divorce."
                    "You don't have to. I give it to you anyway. As for you, Mrs. Botts, I will
                        give you a Decree also. The Alimony will be $25 per."
                    "Thanks."
                    "I don't think you grasp the Decision. When I say that the Alimony is $25
                        per, I mean that Mrs. Botts will be required to pay that Amount to Adolph
                        every week."
                    "Shameful!"
                    "Don't be too hasty. I further Decree that Mr. Botts must pay the same Amount
                        to Flora every Week."
                    "That simply makes it a Stand-Off," remarked Mr. Botts, who was puzzled.
                    "My idea of the Case, neatly expressed,"  said
                        the Modern Solomon. "Each of you is Divorced from the Other, and if Either
                        of you ever Marries again, He or She will be jerked before this Tribunal and
                        sentenced to Ten Years of Hard Labor in some Penal Institution."
                    Whereupon the Court took a Noon Recess of 3 1/2 hours.
                    Moral: Genius must ever walk Alone.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE COPPER AND THE JOVIAL UNDERGRADS
                    
                        ONE Night three Well-Bred Young Men, who were entertained
                        at the Best Houses wherever they went, started out to Wreck a College
                        town.
                    They licked two Hackmen, set fire to an Awning, pulled down many Signs, and
                        sent a Brick through the Front Window of a Tailor Shop. All the Residents of
                        the Town went into their Houses and locked the Doors; Terror brooded over
                        the Community.
                    A Copper heard the Racket, and saw Women and Children fleeing to Places  of Safety, so he gripped his Club and ran
                        Ponderously, overtaking the three Well-Bred Young Men in a dark part of the
                        Street, where they were Engaged in tearing down a Fence.
                    He could not see them Distinctly, and he made the Mistake of assuming that
                        they were Drunken Ruffians from the Iron Foundry. So he spoke harshly, and
                        told them to Leave Off breaking the Man's Fence. His Tone and Manner
                        irritated the University Men, who were not accustomed to Rudeness from
                        Menials.
                    One Student, who wore a Sweater, and whose people butt into the Society
                        Column with Sickening Regularity, started to Tackle Low; he had Bushy Hair
                        and a Thick Neck, and his strong Specialty was to swing on Policemen and
                        Cabbies.
                    
                    
                        STUDENT
                    
                    
                    At this, his Companion, whose Great Grandmother had been one of the eight
                        thousand Close Relatives of John Randolph, asked him not to Kill the
                        Policeman. He said the Fellow had made a Mistake, that was all; they were
                        not Muckers; they were Nice Boys, intent on preserving the Traditions of
                        dear old Alma Mater.
                    
                    The Copper could hardly Believe it until they led him to a Street Lamp, and
                        showed him their Engraved Cards and Junior Society Badges; then he Realized
                        that they were All Right. The third Well-Bred Young Man, whose Male Parent
                        got his Coin by wrecking a Building Association in Chicago, then announced
                        that they were Gentlemen, and could Pay for everything they broke. Thus it
                        will be seen that they were Rollicking 
                        College Boys and not Common Rowdies.
                    The Copper, perceiving that he had come very near getting Gay with our First
                        Families, Apologized for Cutting In. The Well-Bred Young Men forgave him,
                        and then took his Club away from him, just to Demonstrate that there were no
                        Hard Feelings. On the way back to the Seat of Learning they captured a Night
                        Watchman, and put him down a Man-Hole.
                    MORAL: Always select the Right Sort of Parents
                            before you start in to be Rough.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE PROFESSOR WHO WANTED TO BE ALONE
                    
                        NOW it happens that in America a man who goes up hanging
                        to a Balloon is a Professor.
                    One day a Professor, preparing to make a Grand Ascension, was sorely pestered
                        by Spectators of the Yellow-Hammer Variety, who fell over the Stay-Ropes or
                        crowded up close to the Balloon to ask Fool Questions. They wanted to know
                        how fur up he Calkilated to go and was he Afeerd and how often had he did
                        it. The Professor answered them in the Surly Manner peculiar to Showmen
                        accustomed to meet a Web-Foot  Population. On
                        the Q. T. the Prof. had Troubles of his own. He was expected to drop in at a
                        Bank on the following Day and take up a Note for 100 Plunks. The Ascension
                        meant 50 to him, but how to Corral the other 50? That was the Hard One.
                    This question was in his Mind as he took hold of the Trapeze Bar and signaled
                        the Farm Hands to let go. As he trailed Skyward beneath the buoyant silken
                        Bag he hung by his Knees and waved a glad Adieu to the Mob of Inquisitive
                        Yeomen. A Sense of Relief came to him as he saw the Crowd sink away in the
                        Distance.
                    Hanging by one Toe, and with his right Palm pressed to his Eyes, he said:
                        "Now that I am Alone, let me Think, let me Think."
                    
                    
                        THE PROFESSOR
                    
                    
                    There in the Vast Silence He Thought.
                    Presently he gave a sigh of Relief.
                    "I will go to my Wife's Brother and make a Quick Touch," he said. "If he
                        refuses to Unbelt I will threaten to tell his Wife of the bracelet he bought
                        in Louisville."
                    Having reached this Happy Conclusion, he loosened the Parachute and quickly
                        descended to the Earth.
                    MORAL: Avoid Crowds.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF A STATESMAN WHO COULDN'T MAKE GOOD
                    
                        ONCE there was a Bluff whose Long Suit was Glittering
                        Generalities.
                    He hated to Work and it hurt his Eyes to read Law, but on a Clear Day he
                        could be heard a Mile, so he became a Statesman.
                    Whenever the Foresters had a Picnic they invited him to make the Principal
                        Address, because he was the only Orator who could beat out the
                        Merry-Go-Round.
                    The Habit of Dignity enveloped him.
                    Upon his Brow Deliberation sat. He  wore a
                        Fireman's moustache and a White Lawn Tie, and he loved to Talk about the
                        Flag.
                    At a Clam-Bake in 1884 he hurled Defiance at all the Princes and Potentates
                        of Europe, and the Sovereign Voters, caught up by his Matchless Eloquence
                        and Unswerving Courage, elected him to the Legislature.
                    While he was in the Legislature he discovered that these United States were
                        an Asylum for the Down-Trodden and oppressed of the Whole World, and
                        frequently called Attention to the Fact. When some one asked him if he was
                        cutting up any Easy Money or would it be safe for a Man with a Watch to go
                        to Sleep in the same Room with him, he would take a Drink of Water and begin
                        to plead for Cuba.
                    
                    
                        STATESMAN
                    
                    
                    Once an Investigating Committee got after him and he was about to be Shown Up
                        for Dallying with Corporations, but he put on a fresh White Tie and made a
                        Speech about our Heroic Dead on a Hundred Battle-Fields, and Most People
                        said it was simply Impossible for such a Thunderous Patriot to be a Crook.
                        So he played the Glittering Generality stronger than ever.
                    In Due Time he Married a Widow of the Bantam Division. The Reason she married
                        him was that he looked to her to be a Coming Congressman and she wanted to
                        get a Whack at Washington Society. Besides, she lived in a Flat and the
                        Janitor would not permit her to keep a Dog.
                    About Ten Days after they were Married he came Home at 4 A. M. in a 
                        
                            THE BANTAM
                        
                         Sea-Going Hack and he was Saturated. Next
                        Morning she had him up on the Carpet and wanted to know How About It.
                    He arose and put his Right Hand inside of his Prince Albert Coat and
                        began.
                    "Madam," he said, "During a Long, and, I trust, a not altogether fruitless
                        Career as a Servant of the Peepul, I have always stood in the Fierce Light
                        of Publicity, and my Record is an Open Book which he who runs may"
                    "Nix! Nix!" she said, rapping for order with a Tea-Cup. "Let go of the Flying
                        Rings. Get back to the Green Earth!"
                    He dilated his Nostrils and said: "From the Rock-Bound Hills of Maine in the
                        North to the Everglades of Florida"
                    
                    "Forget the Everglades," she said, rapping again. "That Superheated
                        Atmosphere may have a certain Tonic Effect on the Hydrocephalous Voter, but
                        if you want to adjust yourself with Wifey, you come down to Cases."
                    So he went out after Breakfast and bought a $22 Hat in order to Square
                        himself.
                    MORAL: Some Women should be given the Right
                            to Vote.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE BRASH DRUMMER AND THE PEACH WHO LEARNED THAT THERE WERE
                        OTHERS
                    
                        A WELL-FIXED Mortgage Shark, residing at a Way Station,
                        had a Daughter whose Experience was not as large as her prospective Bank
                        Roll. She had all the component Parts of a Peach, but she didn't know how to
                        make a Showing, and there was nobody in Town qualified to give her a quiet
                        Hunch.
                    She got her Fashion Hints from a Trade Catalogue, and took her Tips on
                        Etiquette and Behavior from the Questions  and
                        Answers Department of an Agricultural Monthly.
                    The Girl and her Father lived in a big White House, with Evergreen Trees and
                        whitewashed Dornicks in front of it, and a Wind-Pump at the rear. Father was
                        a good deal the same kind of a Man as David Harum, except that he didn't let
                        go of any Christmas Presents, or work the Soft Pedal when he had a chance to
                        apply a Crimp to some Widow who had seen Better Days. In fact, Daughter was
                        the only one on Earth who could induce him to Loosen Up.
                    Now, it happened that there came to this Town every Thirty Days a brash
                        Drummer, who represented a Tobacco House. He was a Gabby Young Man, and he
                        could Articulate at all Times, whether he had anything to Say or not.
                    
                    
                        DAUGHTER
                    
                    
                    One night, at a Lawn Fte given by the Ladies of the Methodist Congregation,
                        he met Daughter. She noticed that his Trousers did not bag at the Knees;
                        also that he wore a superb Ring. They strolled under the Maples, and he
                        talked what is technically known as Hot Air. He made an Impression
                        considerably deeper than himself. She promised to Correspond.
                    On the occasion of his next Visit to the Way Station, he let her wear his
                        Ring, and made a Wish, while she took him riding in the Phaeton. He began to
                        carry her Photograph in his Watch, and show it to the Boys employed at the
                        House. Sometimes he would fold over one of her Letters so they could see how
                        it started out. He said the Old Man had Nothing But, and he proposed to 
                        
                            IN THE EAST
                        
                         make it a case of Marry. Truly, it seemed
                        that he was the principal Cake in the Pantry, and little did he suspect that
                        he could be Frosted.
                    But Daughter, after much Pleading, induced Father to send her to a Finishing
                        School in the East. (A Finishing School is a Place at which Young Ladies are
                        taught how to give the Quick Finish to all Persons who won't do.)
                    At School, the Daughter tied up with a Chum, who seldom overlooked a
                        Wednesday Matinee, and she learned more in three Weeks than her Childhood
                        Home could have shown her in three Centuries.
                    Now she began to see the other Kind; the Kind that Wears a Cutaway, with a
                        White Flower, in the Morning, a Frock, 
                        
                            A STRANGE MAN
                        
                         with Violets, in the Afternoon, and a jimmy
                        little Tuxedo at Night.
                    For the first time she began to listen to Harness that had Chains to it, and
                        she rode in Vehicles that permitted her to glance in at the Second
                        Stories.
                    She stopped wearing Hats, and began to choose Confections. She selected them
                        Languidly, three at a time.
                    Then the Bill to the Way Station, and Father down with Heart Failure.
                    She kept Mr. Sothern's Picture on her Dresser, with two Red Candles burning
                        in front of it, and every time she thought of Gabby Will, the Cracker-jack
                        Salesman, she reached for the Peau d'Espagne and sprayed herself.
                    One Day when the Tobacco Salesman came up Main Street with his  Grips, on his way to visit the Trade, he met
                        the Drug Clerk, who told him that She was Home on a Visit. So he hurried
                        through with his Work, got a Shave, changed ends on his Cuffs, pared his
                        Nails, bought a box of Marsh-mallows, and went out to the House.
                    Daughter was on the Lawn, seated under a Canopy that had set Father back
                        thirty-two Dollars. There was a Hired Hand sprinkling the Grass with a Hose,
                        and as Will, the Conversational Drummer, came up the Long Walk, Daughter
                        called to the Hired Hand, and said: "Johnson, there is a Strange Man coming
                        up the Walk; change the Direction of the Stream somewhat, else you may
                        Dampen him."
                    The Drummer approached her, feeling of his Necktie, and wondered if she  would up and Kiss him, right in broad
                        Daylight. She didn't. Daughter allowed a rose-colored Booklet, by Guy de
                        Maupassant, to sink among the Folds of her French Gown, and then she Looked
                        at him, and said: "All Goods must be delivered at the Rear."
                    "Don't you Know me?" he asked.
                    "Rully, it seems to me I have seen you, Somewhere," she replied, "but I
                        cahn't place you. Are you the Man who tunes the Piano?"
                    "Don't you remember the night I met you at the Lawn Fte?" he asked; and then,
                        Chump that he was, and all Rattled, he told her his Name, instead of giving
                        her the scorching Come-Back that he composed next Day, when it was Too
                        Late.
                    "I meet so many People traveling  about," she
                        said; "I cahn't remember all of them, you know. I dare say you called to see
                        Pu-pah; he will be here Presently."
                    Then she gave him "Some one's else," "Neyether," "Savoir-Faire," and a few
                        other Crisp Ones, hot from the Finishing School, after which she asked him
                        how the Dear Villagers were coming on. He reminded her that he did not live
                        in the Town. She said: "Only Fahncy!" and he said he guessed he'd have to be
                        Going, as he had promised a Man to meet him at Jordan's Store before the
                        Bank closed.
                    As he moved toward the St. Nicholas Hotel he kept his Hand on his Solar
                        Plexus. At five o'clock he rode out of Town on a Local.
                    MORAL: Anybody can Win unless there happens
                            to be a Second Entry.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF SISTER MAE, WHO DID AS WELL AS COULD BE EXPECTED
                    
                        TWO Sisters lived in Chicago, the Home of Opportunity.
                    Luella was a Good Girl, who had taken Prizes at the Mission Sunday School,
                        but she was Plain, much. Her Features did not seem to know the value of Team
                        Work. Her Clothes fit her Intermittently, as it were. She was what would be
                        called a Lumpy Dresser. But she had a good Heart.
                    Luella found Employment at a Hat Factory. All she had to do was to put Red
                        Linings in Hats for the Country  Trade; and
                        every Saturday Evening, when Work was called on account of Darkness, the
                        Boss met her as she went out and crowded three Dollars on her.
                    The other Sister was Different.
                    She began as Mary, then changed to Marie, and her Finish was Mae.
                    From earliest Youth she had lacked Industry and Application.
                    She was short on Intellect but long on Shape.
                    The Vain Pleasures of the World attracted her. By skipping the Long Words she
                        could read how Rupert Bansiford led Sibyl Gray into the Conservatory and
                        made Love that scorched the Begonias. Sometimes she just Ached to light out
                        with an Opera Company.
                    When she couldn't stand up Luella for any more Car Fare she went out looking
                            
                        
                            THE BOSS
                        
                         for Work, and hoping she wouldn't find it.
                        The sagacious Proprietor of a Lunch Room employed her as Cashier. In a
                        little While she learned to count Money, and could hold down the Job.
                    Marie was a Strong Card. The Male Patrons of the Establishment hovered around
                        the Desk long after paying their Checks. Within a Month the Receipts of the
                        Place had doubled.
                    It was often remarked that Marie was a Pippin. Her Date Book had to be kept
                        on the Double Entry System.
                    Although her Grammar was Sad, it made no Odds. Her Picture was on many a
                        Button.
                    A Credit Man from the Wholesale House across the Street told her that any
                        time she wanted to see the Telegraph 
                        
                            MAE
                        
                         Poles rush past, she could tear
                        Transportation out of his Book. But Marie turned him down for a Bucket Shop
                        Man, who was not Handsome, but was awful Generous.
                    They were Married, and went to live in a Flat with a Quarter-Sawed Oak
                        Chiffonier and Pink Rugs. She was Mae at this Stage of the Game.
                    Shortly after this, Wheat jumped twenty-two points, and the Husband didn't do
                        a Thing.
                    Mae bought a Thumb Ring and a Pug Dog, and began to speak of the Swede Help
                        as "The Maid."
                    Then she decided that she wanted to live in a House, because, in a Flat, One
                        could never be sure of One's Neighbors. So they moved into a Sarcophagus on
                        the Boulevard, right in between two Old 
                        Families, who had made their Money soon after the Fire, and Ice began to
                        form on the hottest Days.
                    Mae bought an Automobile, and blew her Allowance against Beauty Doctors. The
                        Smell of Cooking made her Faint, and she couldn't see where the Working
                        Classes came in at all.
                    When she attended the theater a Box was none too good. Husband went along, in
                        evening clothes and a Yachting Cap, and he had two large Diamonds in his
                        Shirt Front.
                    Sometimes she went to a Vogner Concert, and sat through it, and she wouldn't
                        Admit any more that the Russell Brothers, as the Irish Chambermaids, hit her
                        just about Right.
                    She was determined to break into Society if she had to use an AX.
                    
                    At last she Got There; but it cost her many a Reed Bird and several Gross of
                        Cold Quarts.
                    In the Hey-Day of Prosperity did Mae forget Luella? No, indeed.
                    She took Luella away from the Hat Factory, where the Pay was three Dollars a
                        Week, and gave her a Position as Assistant Cook at five Dollars.
                    MORAL: Industry and Perseverance bring a sure
                            Reward.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF HOW THE FOOL-KILLER BACKED OUT OF A CONTRACT
                    
                        THE Fool-Killer came along the Pike Road one Day and
                        stopped to look at a Strange Sight.
                    Inside of a Barricade were several Thousands of Men, Women and Children. They
                        were moving restlessly among the trampled Weeds, which were clotted with
                        Watermelon Rinds, Chicken Bones, Straw and torn Paper Bags.
                    It was a very hot Day. The People could not sit down. They shuffled Wearily
                        and were pop-eyed with Lassitude and Discouragement.
                    
                    A stifling Dust enveloped them. They Gasped and Sniffled. Some tried to
                        alleviate their Sufferings by gulping down a Pink Beverage made of
                        Drug-Store Acid, which fed the Fires of Thirst.
                    Thus they wove and interwove in the smoky Oven. The Whimper or the faltering
                        Wail of Children, the quavering Sigh of overlaced Women, and the long-drawn
                        Profanity of Men--these were what the Fool-Killer heard as he looked upon the
                        Suffering Throng.
                    "Is this a new Wrinkle on Dante's Inferno?" he asked of the Man on the Gate,
                        who wore a green Badge marked "Marshal," and was taking Tickets.
                    "No, sir; this is a County Fair," was the reply.
                    
                    
                        THE FOOL-KILLER
                    
                    
                    "Why do the People congregate in the Weeds and allow the Sun to warp
                        them?"
                    "Because Everybody does it."
                    "Do they Pay to get in?"
                    "You know it."
                    "Can they Escape?"
                    "They can, but they prefer to Stick."
                    The Fool-Killer hefted his Club and then looked at the Crowd and shook his
                        Head doubtfully.
                    "I can't tackle that Outfit to-day," he said. "It's too big a Job."
                    So he went on into Town, and singled out a Main Street Merchant who refused
                        to Advertise.
                    MORAL: People who expect to be Luny will find
                            it safet to travel in a Bunch.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE CADDY WHO HURT HIS HEAD WHILE THINKING
                    
                        ONE Day a Caddy sat in the Long Grass near the Ninth Hole
                        and wondered if he had a Soul. His Number was 27, and he almost had
                        forgotten his Real Name.
                    As he sat and Meditated, two Players passed him. They were going the Long
                        Round, and the Frenzy was upon them.
                    They followed the Gutta Percha Balls with the intent swiftness of trained
                        Bird Dogs, and each talked feverishly of Brassy Lies, and getting past the
                        Bunker, and Lofting to the Green, and Slicing 
                        into the Bramble--each telling his own Game to the Ambient Air, and ignoring
                        what the other Fellow had to say.
                    As they did the St. Andrews Full Swing for eighty Yards apiece and then
                        Followed Through with the usual Explanations of how it Happened, the Caddy
                        looked at them and Reflected that they were much inferior to his Father.
                    His Father was too Serious a Man to get out in Mardi Gras Clothes and hammer
                        a Ball from one Red Flag to another.
                    His Father worked in a Lumber Yard.
                    He was an Earnest Citizen, who seldom Smiled, and he knew all about the
                        Silver Question and how J. Pierpont Morgan done up a Free People on the Bond
                        Issue.
                    
                    
                        MEDITATIVE CADDY
                    
                    
                    The Caddy wondered why it was that his Father, a really Great Man, had to
                        shove Lumber all day and could seldom get one Dollar to rub against another,
                        while these superficial Johnnies who played Golf all the Time had Money to
                        Throw at the Birds. The more he Thought the more his Head ached.
                    MORAL: don't try to Account for
                            Anything.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE MARTYR WHO LIKED THE JOB
                    
                        ONCE in a Country Town there was a Man with a Weak
                        Back.
                    He could put a Grindstone into a Farm Wagon if any one wanted to bet him the
                        Segars, but every time he lifted an Ax, something caught him right in the
                        Spine and he had to go into the House and lie down. So his Wife took
                        Boarders and did the Cooking herself.
                    He was willing to divide the Labor, however; so he did the Marketing. Only,
                        when he had bought the Victuals, he would squat on a Shoe-Box with the
                    
                    Basket between his Legs and say that he couldn't see what Congress wuz
                        thinkin' of.
                    He had certain Theories in regard to the Alaskan Boundary and he was against
                        any Anglo-American Alliance becuz Uncle Sam could take care of himself at
                        any Turn in the Road, comin' right down to it, and the American People wuz
                        superior to any other Naytionality in every Way, Shape, Manner and Form, as
                        fur as that's concerned. Then his Wife would have to send Word for him to
                        come on with the Groceries so she could get Dinner.
                    Nearly Everybody Sympathized with her, because she had to put up with such a
                        big Hulk of a no-account Husband. She was looked upon as a Martyr.
                    
                    
                        A MARTYR
                    
                    
                    One Day the Husband was Sunstruck, being too Lazy to move into the Shade, and
                        next Day he Passed Away without an Effort. The Widow gave him the best
                        Funeral of the Year and then put all the Money she could rake and scrape
                        into a Marble Shaft marked "At Rest."
                    A good many People said she was Better Off without him, and it was certainly
                        a Good Riddance of Bad Rubbish.
                    They hoped that if she ever Married again she'd pick out Somebody that wuzn't
                        afraid to Work, and had Gumption enough to pound Sand into a Rat-Hole.
                    There was General Satisfaction when she became the Wife of Mr. Gladden, who
                        owned the General Store. He  built a new
                        House, hired a Girl and had the Washing sent out. She could go into the
                        Store and pick out Anything she wanted, and he took her riding in his new
                        Runabout every Evening.
                    Consequently, she was very Miserable, thinking of the Jewel she had lost.
                    MORAL: If the Woman thinks he's All Right,
                            you keep on your own Side of the Fence.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE BOHEMIAN WHO HAD HARD LUCK
                    
                        ONCE upon a Time there was a Brilliant but Unappreciated
                        Chap who was such a Thorough Bohemian that Strangers usually mistook him for
                        a Tramp.
                    Would he brush his Clothes? Not he. When he wore a Collar he was Ashamed of
                        himself. He had Pipe-Ashes on his Coat and Vest. He seldom Combed his Hair,
                        and never Shaved.
                    Every Evening he ate an Imitation Dinner, at a forty-cent Table d'Hte, with a
                        Bottle of Writing Fluid thrown in. He had formed a little Salon of Geniuses,
                             who also were out of Work, and they loved
                        to Loll around on their Shoulder-Blades and Laugh Bitterly at the World.
                    The main Bohemian was an Author. After being Turned Down by numerous
                        Publishers, he had decided to write for Posterity. Posterity hadn't heard
                        anything about it, and couldn't get out an Injunction.
                    He knew his Works were good, because all the Free and Untrammeled Souls in
                        the Spaghetti Joint told him so. He would read them a Little Thing of his
                        Own about Wandering in the Fields with Lesbia, and then he would turn to a
                        Friend, whose Face was all covered with Human Ivy, and ask him, point blank:
                        "Is it, or is it not, Better than the Dooley Stuff?"
                    
                    
                        THOROUGH BOHEMIAN
                    
                    
                    "There is no Comparison," would be the Reply, coming through the Foliage.
                    Wandering in the Fields with Lesbia! Lesbia would have done Well. If he had
                        Wandered in the Fields at any Time he would have been Pinched on Suspicion
                        that he was out for Turnips.
                    The sure-enough Bohemian was a Scathing Critic. If Brander Matthews only knew
                        some of the Things said about him, there would be Tear Marks on his Pillow.
                        And Howells, too. Bah! My, but he was Caustic.
                    The way he burned up Magazine Writers, it's a Wonder they didn't get after
                        him for Arson.
                    One day, while standing on the Front Stoop at his Boarding House, trying to
                        think of some one who would submit to a Touch, a Flower Pot fell from a
                        Window  Ledge above him, and hit him on the
                        Head. He was put into an Ambulance and taken to a Hospital, where the
                        Surgeons clipped his Hair short, in order to take Three Stitches. While he
                        was still Unconscious, and therefore unable to Resist, they Scrubbed him
                        with Castile Soap, gave him a good Shave, and put him into a snowy-white
                        Gown.
                    His Friends heard of the Accident, and went to the Hospital to offer
                        Condolence. When they found him he was so Clean and Commonplace that they
                        lost all Respect for him.
                    MORAL: Get a good Make-Up and the Part plays
                            itself.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE COMING CHAMPION WHO WAS DELAYED
                    
                        IN a certain Athletic Club which rented two rooms over a
                        Tin-Shop there was one Boy who could put it All Over the other Members.
                    He knew how to Jab and Counter and Upper-Cut and Bore in with the Left and
                        Play for the Wind. He had Lumps on his Arms and a good Pair of Shoulders,
                        and every one in the Club told him he had the makings of a World-Beater. He
                        used to coax Grocery Clerks and Grammar-School Children to put on the Gloves
                        with him, and then he would  go around them,
                        like a Cooper around a Barrel, and Trim them right and proper.
                    His friends would stand and watch him make Monkeys of these anmic Amateurs,
                        and gradually the Conviction grew within the that he could Lick anybody of
                        his Weight. The Boy believed them when they told him he ought to go after
                        the Top-Notchers.
                    He gave up his Job in the Planning Mill and became a Pugilist. The Proprietor
                        of a Cigar Store acted as his Manager, and began to pay his Board. This
                        Manager was Foxy. He told the Boy that before tackling the Championship
                        Class it would be better to go out and beat a lot of Fourth-Raters, thereby
                        building up a Reputation and at the same time getting here and there a Mess
                        of the Long Green.
                    
                    
                        MANAGER
                    
                    
                    In the same Town there was an Undertaker who had Sporting Blood in his Veins,
                        and he sought out the Manager and made a Match in behalf of an Unknown.
                    The boy went into Training in a Stable. He had a yellow Punching Bag, a
                        Sponge, a Bath-Robe and several Towels. Two Paper-Hangers who were out of
                        Work acted as his Trainers. They rubbed him with Witch Hazel all day, and in
                        the Evening the Boy stood around in a Sweater and Talked out of the corner
                        of his Mouth. He said he was Trained to the Minute, as Hard as Nails and Fit
                        as a Fiddle, and he would make Mr. Unknown jump out of the Ring.
                    As the Day of the Battle approached it came out that the Unknown was a 
                        
                            THE COMING CHAMPION
                        
                         Scrapper who had been fairly Successful at
                        one Time, but had ceased to be a Live One several Years before. He was
                        imported especially for this Contest with the Coming Champion.
                    When he arrived in Town it was evident that he lacked Condition. He had been
                        dieting himself on Pie and Beer, and any Expert, such as the Cigar Store
                        Man, could tell by looking at him that his Abdomen was not hard enough to
                        withstand those crushing Body Blows such as the Boy was in the Habit of
                        Landing--on the Punching Bag. Accordingly the Word went around that the
                        imported Pug was too Fat and had bad Wind.
                    It began to resemble a Cinch.
                    The Manager went out and bet more Money, and the Coming Champion was  Nervous for fear that he would kill the
                        Has-Been if he connected too strong on the Point of the Jaw. He thought it
                        would be better to wear him down with Short-Arm blows and make him Quit. He
                        had read that it was Dangerous to punish a Physical Wreck, who might have
                        Heart Trouble or something like that. The Boy was a Professional Pugilist,
                        but he had Humane Instincts.
                    When the Boy came to the Train which was to carry the Participants and the
                        Spectators to the Battle-Field he was attended by four Comrades, who had
                        Ice, Beef Tea, Brandy, Alcohol, Blankets and other Paraphernalia. They made
                        a Couch for him in the Baggage Car, and had him lie down, so that he might
                        conserve all his Strength and step into the Ring as fresh as possible. The
                             so-called Unknown had no one to Handle
                        him. He sat Alone in the Men's Car, with a queer Telescope Valise on his
                        Knees, and he smoked a Cigarette, which was in direct Violation of all the
                        Rules of Training.
                    At last the Company arrived at the Secluded Spot, and a Ring was staked
                        out.
                    The Coming Champion was received with Loud Cheers. He wore a new Pair of
                        Gymnasium Shoes, spotless Trunks, and around his Waist was an American Flag,
                        presented by his Admirers in the Athletic Club.
                    In a few Moments the Imported Scrapper came into the Ring, attended by the
                        Sporty Undertaker. He wore an old Pair of Bike Shoes and faded Work
                        Trousers, chopped off at the 
                        
                            AND SEE!
                        
                         Knees, while his Belt was a Shawl-Strap. He
                        was chewing Gum.
                    After he put on the Gloves he looked over at the Coming Champion and remarked
                        to the Undertaker that he (the Coming Champion) seemed to be a Nice Young
                        Fellow. After which he Yawned slightly, and wanted to know what Time they
                        would get a Train back to Town.
                    The Bell rang, and there in the Center of the Ring stood the Tottering
                        Has-Been and the Coming Champion.
                    The Has-Been was crouched, with his Head drawn in, turtle-fashion, his Legs
                        spraddled, and oh, the hard, vicious Expression on that Face, as he Fiddled
                        Short and looked intently at the Coming Champion's Feet. This was a very
                        confusing and unprofessional Thing to do, as the Boy had not been accustomed
                             to boxing with People who looked at his
                        Feet. He wondered if there was anything the matter with his Gymnasium
                        Shoes.
                    In a Moment or two he saw that the Physical Wreck was afraid to Lead, so he
                        did some nimble Foot Work, and his Gloves began to describe Parabolas--then
                        all at once somebody turned off the Sunshine.
                    They threw Cold Water on him, held a Bottle of Ammonia to his Nose and stuck
                        Pins in under his Finger-Nails.
                    At last his Eye-Lids fluttered, and he turned a dim and filmy Gaze on his
                        faithful Seconds gathered about him.
                    "Oh, how the Birds sing!" he murmured. "And see! The Aurora Borealis is
                        trying to climb over Pain's Fire-Works."
                    
                    "Cheer up!" said the Manager. "He took a Mean Advantage of you and Hit you
                        when you wasn't Looking."
                    "Ah, yes, it all comes back to me. Did I win?"
                    "Not quite," replied the Manager, who feared to tell him the whole Truth.
                    "You say he Hit me?" asked the Coming Champion.
                    "Yes."
                    "With a Casting?"
                    "We couldn't tell. He was in such a Hurry."
                    All this Time the Victor was sitting on the Station Platform with the
                        Undertaker. He was Remarking that it seemed to be a very Purty Country
                        thereabouts, and he'd often wished he could close in on enough of the Gilt
                        to buy him a nice piece of Land somewhere, 
                        inasmuch as he regarded a Farmer as the most independent Man on Earth.
                    Next week there was a familiar Name back on the Time-Card at the Planing
                        Mill.
                    MORAL: In all the Learned Professions, Many
                            are Called but Few are Chosen.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE LAWYER WHO BROUGHT IN A MINORITY REPORT
                    
                        AT a Bazaar, the purpose of which was to Hold Up the
                        Public for the Benefit of a Worthy Cause, there were many Schemes to induce
                        Visitors to let go of their Assets. One of the most likely Grafts
                        perpetrated by the astute Management was a Voting Contest to Determine who
                        was the Most Beautiful and Popular Young Lady in the City. It cost Ten Cents
                        to cast one Vote. The Winner of the Contest was to receive a beautiful Vase,
                        with Roses on it.
                    
                    A prominent Young Lawyer, who was Eloquent, Good Looking, and a Leader in
                        Society, had been selected to make the Presentation Speech after the Votes
                        had been counted.
                    In a little while the Contest had narrowed down until it was Evident that
                        either the Brewer's Daughter or the Contractor's Daughter was the Most
                        Beautiful and Popular Young Lady in the City. The Brewer and his Friends
                        pushed Ten Dollar Bills into the Ballot Box, while the Contractor, just
                        before the Polls closed, slipped in a Check for One Hundred Dollars.
                    When the Votes were counted, the Management of the Bazaar was pleased to
                        learn that the Sixty-Cent Vase had Netted over Seven Hundred Dollars. It was
                        Announced that the Contractor's 
                        
                            THE MINORITY REPORT
                        
                         Daughter was exactly Nine Dollars and Twenty
                        Cents more Beautiful and Popular than the Brewer's Daughter.
                    Thereupon the Committee requested that the Eloquent Young Lawyer step to the
                        Rostrum and make the Presentation Speech. There was no Response; the Young
                        Lawyer had Disappeared.
                    One of the Members of the Committee started on a Search for him, and found
                        him in a dusky Corner of the Japanese Tea Garden, under the Paper Lanterns,
                        making a Proposal of Marriage to a Poor Girl who had not received one
                        Vote.
                    MORAL: Never believe a Relative.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE TWO MANDOLIN PLAYERS AND THE WILLING PERFORMER
                    
                        A VERY attractive Debutante knew two Young Men who called
                        on her every Thursday Evening, and brought their Mandolins along.
                    They were Conventional Young Men, of the Kind that you see wearing Spring
                        Overcoats in the Clothing Advertisements. One was named Fred, and the other
                        was Eustace.
                    The Mothers of the Neighborhood often remarked, "What Perfect Manners Fred
                        and Eustace have!" Merely as an aside it may be added that  Fred and Eustace were more Popular with the
                        Mothers than they were with the Younger Set, although no onc could say a
                        Word against either of them. Only it was rumored in Keen Society that they
                        didn't Belong. The Fact that they went Calling in a Crowd, and took their
                        Mandolins along, may give the Acute Reader some Idea of the Life that Fred
                        and Eustace held out to the Young Women of their Acquaintance.
                    The Debutante's name was Myrtle. Her Parents were very Watchful, and did not
                        encourage her to receive Callers, except such as were known to be Exemplary
                        Young Men. Fred and Eustace were a few of those who escaped the Black List.
                        Myrtle always appeared to be glad to see them, and they regarded her as a
                        Darned Swell Girl.
                    
                    
                        MYRTLE
                    
                    
                    Fred's Cousin came from St. Paul on a Visit; and one Day, in the Street, he
                        saw Myrtle, and noticed that Fred tipped his Hat, and gave her a Stage
                        Smile.
                    "Oh, Queen of Sheba!" exclaimed the Cousin from St. Paul, whose name was Gus,
                        as he stood stock still, and watched Myrtle's Reversible Plaid disappear
                        around a Corner. "She's a Bird. Do you know her well?"
                    "I know her Quite Well," replied Fred, coldly. "She is a Charming Girl."
                    "She is all of that. You're a great Describer. And now what Night are you
                        going to take me around to Call on her?"
                    Fred very naturally Hemmed and Hawed. It must be remembered that Myrtle was a
                        member of an Excellent  Family, and had been
                        schooled in the Proprieties, and it was not to be supposed that she would
                        crave the Society of slangy old Gus, who had an abounding Nerve, and
                        furthermore was as Fresh as the Mountain Air.
                    He was the Kind of Fellow who would see a Girl twice, and then, upon meeting
                        her the Third Time, he would go up and straighten her Cravat for her, and
                        call her by her First Name.
                    Put him into a Strange Company--en route to a Picnic--and by the time the Baskets
                        were unpacked he would have a Blonde all to himself, and she would have
                        traded her Fan for his College Pin.
                    If a Fair-Looker on the Street happened to glance at him Hard he would run up
                        and seize her by the Hand, and  convince her
                        that they had Met. And he always Got Away with it, too.
                    In a Department Store, while waiting for the Cash Boy to come back with the
                        Change, he would find out the Girl's Name, her Favorite Flower, and where a
                        Letter would reach her.
                    Upon entering a Parlor Car at St. Paul he would select a Chair next to the
                        Most Promising One in Sight, and ask her if she cared to have the Shade
                        lowered.
                    Before the Train cleared the Yards he would have the Porter bringing a
                        Foot-Stool for the Lady.
                    At Hastings he would be asking her if she wanted Something to Read.
                    At Red Wing he would be telling her that she resembled Maxine Elliott, and
                        showing her his Watch, left to him by his Grandfather, a Prominent
                        Virginian.
                    
                    
                        FRED AND EUSTACE
                    
                    
                    At La Crosse he would be reading the Menu Card to her, and telling her how
                        different it is when you have Some One to join you in a Bite.
                    At Milwaukee he would go out and buy a Bouquet for her, and when they rode
                        into Chicago they would be looking out of the same Window, and he would be
                        arranging for her Baggage with the Transfer Man. After that they would be
                        Old Friends.
                    Now, Fred and Eustace had been at School with Gus, and they had seen his
                        Work, and they were not disposed to Introduce him into One of the most
                        Exclusive Homes in the City.
                    They had known Myrtle for many Years; but they did not dare to Address her by
                        her First Name, and they were Positive that if Gus attempted any of his  usual Tactics with her she would be Offended;
                        and, naturally enough, they would be Blamed for bringing him to the
                        House.
                    But Gus insisted. He said he had seen Myrtle, and she Suited him from the
                        Ground up, and he proposed to have Friendly Doings with her. At last they
                        told him they would take him if he promised to Behave. Fred warned him that
                        Myrtle would frown down any Attempt to be Familiar on Short Acquaintance,
                        and Eustace said that as long as he had known Myrtle he had never Presumed
                        to be Free and Forward with her. He had simply played the Mandolin. That was
                        as Far Along as he had ever got.
                    Gus told them not to Worry about him. All he asked was a Start. He said  he was a Willing Performer, but as yet he
                        never had been Disqualified for Crowding. Fred and Eustace took this to mean
                        that he would not Overplay his Attentions, so they escorted him to the
                        House.
                    As soon as he had been Presented, Gus showed her where to sit on the Sofa,
                        then he placed himself about Six Inches away and began to Buzz, looking her
                        straight in the Eye. He said that when he first saw her he Mistook her for
                        Miss Prentice, who was said to be the Most Beautiful Girl in St. Paul, only,
                        when he came closer, he saw that it couldn't be Miss Prentice, because Miss
                        Prentice didn't have such Lovely Hair. Then he asked her the Month of her
                        Birth and told her Fortune, thereby coming nearer to Holding her Hand 
                        
                            THE WILLING PERFORMER
                        
                         within Eight Minutes than Eustace had come in
                        a Lifetime.
                    "Play something, Boys," he Ordered, just as if he had paid them Money to come
                        along and make Music for him.
                    They unlimbered their Mandolins and began to play a Sousa March. He asked
                        Myrtle if she had seen the New Moon. She replied that she had not, so they
                        went Outside.
                    When Fred and Eustace finished the first Piece, Gus appeared at the open
                        Window, and asked them to play "The Georgia Camp-Meeting," which had always
                        been one of his Favorites.
                    So they played that, and when they had Concluded there came a Voice from the
                        Outer Darkness, and it was the Voice of Myrtle. She said: "I'll tell you
                        what to Play; play the Intermezzo."
                    
                    Fred and Eustace exchanged Glances. They began to Perceive that they had been
                        backed into a Siding. With a few Potted Palms in front of them, and two
                        Cards from the Union, they would have been just the same as a Hired
                        Orchestra.
                    But they played the Intermezzo and felt Peevish. Then they went to the Window
                        and looked out. Gus and Myrtle were sitting in the Hammock, which had quite
                        a Pitch toward the Center. Gus had braced himself by Holding to the back of
                        the Hammock. He did not have his Arm around Myrtle, but he had it Extended
                        in a Line parallel with her Back. What he had done wouldn't Justify a Girl
                        in saying, "Sir!" but it started a Real Scandal with Fred and Eustace. They
                        saw that the only Way to Get Even with her was to go  Home without saying "Good Night." So they slipped out the Side
                        Door, shivering with Indignation.
                    After that, for several Weeks, Gus kept Myrtle so Busy that she had no Time
                        to think of considering other Candidates. He sent Books to her Mother, and
                        allowed the Old Gentleman to take Chips away from him at Poker.
                    They were Married in the Autumn, and Father-in-Law took Gus into the Firm,
                        saying that he had needed a good Pusher for a Long Time.
                    At the Wedding the two Mandolin Players were permitted to act as Ushers.
                    MORAL: To get a fair Trial of Speed, use a
                            Pace-Maker.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE FABLE OF THE MAN WHO DIDN'T CARE FOR STORYBOOKS
                    
                        ONCE there was a blue Dyspeptic, who attempted to Kill
                        Time by reading Novels, until he discovered that all Books of Fiction were a
                        Mockery.
                    After a prolonged Experience he came to know that every Specimen of Light
                        Reading belonged to one of the following Divisions:
                    1. The Book that Promises well until you reach the Plot, and then you
                        Remember that you read it Summer before last.
                    
                    2. The book with the Author's Picture as a Frontispiece. The Author is very
                        Cocky. He has his Overcoat thrown back, so as to reveal the Silk Lining.
                        That Settles it!
                    3. The Book that runs into a Snarl of Dialect on the third Page and never
                        gets out.
                    4. The delectable Yarn about a Door-Mat Thief, who truly loves the Opium
                        Fiend. Jolly Story of the Slums.
                    5. The Book that begins with a twenty - page Description of Sloppy Weather:
                        "Long swirls of riven Rain beat somberly upon the mistry Panes," etc.,
                        etc.
                    You turn to the last Chapter to see if it Rains all the way through the Book.
                        This last Chapter is a Give-Away. It condenses the whole Plot and dishes up
                            
                        
                            ALL A MOCKERY
                        
                         the Conclusion. After that, who would have
                        the Nerve to wade through the Two Hundred and Forty intermediate Pages?
                    6. The Book in which the Pictures tell the Story. After you have seen the
                        Pictures there is no need to wrestle with the Text.
                    7. The Book that begins with a Murder Mystery--charming Picture of Gray-Haired
                        Man discovered Dead in his Library--Blood splashed all over the Furniture--Knife
                        of Curious Design lying on Floor.
                    You know at once that the most Respected and least suspected Personage in the Book committed the awful Crime, but you
                        haven't the Heart to Track him down and compel him to commit Suicide.
                    
                    8. The Book that gets away with one Man asking another: "By Jove, who is that
                        Dazzling Beauty in the Box?"
                    The Man who asks this Question has a Name which sounds like the Title of a
                        Sleeping Car.
                    You feel instinctively that he is going to be all Mixed Up with that Girl in
                        the Box before Chapter XII. is reached; but who can take any real Interest
                        in the Love Affairs of a Man with such a Name?
                    9. The Book that tells all about Society and how Tough it is. Even the Women
                        drink Brandy and Soda, smoke Cigarettes, and Gamble. The clever Man of the
                        World, who says all the Killing Things, is almost as Funny as Ally Sloper.
                        An irritable Person, after reading nine Chapters of this kind  of High Life, would be ready to go Home and
                        throw his Grandmother into the Fire.
                    10. The dull, gray Book, or the Simple Annals of John Gardensass. A Careful
                        Study of American Life.
                    In Chapter I. he walks along the Lane, stepping first on one Foot and then on
                        the Other, enters a House by the Door, and sits in a four-legged wooden
                        Chair, looking out through a Window with Glass in it. Book denotes careful
                        Observation. Nothing happens until Page 150. Then John decides to sell the
                        Cow. In the Final Chapter he sits on a Fence and Whittles. True Story, but
                        What's the Use?
                    Why continue? The Dyspeptic said that when he wanted something really Fresh
                        and Original in the Line of Fiction  he read
                        the Prospectus of a Mining Corporation.
                    MORAL: Only the more Rugged Mortals should
                            attempt to Keep Up on Current Literature.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            Colophon
                PRINTED BY R. R. DONNELLEY AND SONS COMPANY AT THE
                    LAKESIDE PRESS, CHICAGO, ILL.
            
            
            
        
    
