
     ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916. Nye and Riley's Railway Guide: electronic
                    edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2461
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    NYE AND RILEY'S RAILWAY GUIDE
                
                By EDGAR W. NYE AND JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
                
                    Illustrated by Baron DeGrimm E. Zimmerman Walt. McDougall and
                        others
                
                
                    CHICAGO
                    THE DEARBORN PUBLISHING COMPANY
                    1888
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1888, BY BILL NYE AND JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
                     (All Rights Reserved)
            
            
            
                Why it was done.
                
                What this country needs, aside from a new Indian policy and a style of poison for
                    children which will be liable to kill rats if they eat it by accident, is a
                    Railway Guide which will be just as good two years ago as it was next spring
                    — a Railway Guide if you please, which shall not be cursed by a
                    plethora of facts, or poisoned with information — a Railway Guide that
                    shall be rich with doubts and lighted up with miserable apprehensions. In other
                    Railway Guides, pleasing fancy, poesy and literary beauty, have been throttled
                    at the very threshold of success, by a wild incontinence of facts, figures,
                    asterisks and references to meal stations. For this reason a guide has been
                    built at our own shops and on a new plan. It is the literary piece
                        de resistance of the age in which we live. It will not permit
                    information to creep in and mar the reader's enjoyment of the scenery.
                    It contains no railroad map which is grossly inaccurate. It has no time-table in
                    it which has outlived its uselessness. It does not prohibit passengers from
                    riding on the platform while the cars are in motion. It permits everyone to do
                         just as he pleases and rather encourages him
                    in taking that course.
                The authors of this book have suffered intensely from the inordinate use of other
                    guides, having been compelled several times to rise at 3 o'clock A.M.
                    in order to catch a car which did not go and which would not have stopped at the
                    station if it had gone.
                They have decided, therefore, to issue a guide which will be good for one to read
                    after one has missed one's train by reason of one's faith in
                    other guides which we may have in one's luggage.
                Let it be understood, then, that we are wholly irresponsible, and we are glad of
                    it. We do not care who knows it. We will not even hold ourselves responsible for
                    the pictures in this book, or the hard-boiled eggs sold at points marked as meal
                    stations in time tables. We have gone into this thing wholly unpledged, and the
                    man who gets up before he is awake, in order to catch any East bound, or West
                    bound, North bound, South bound, or hide-bound train, named in this book, does
                    himself a great wrong without in any way advancing our own interests.
                The authors of this book have made railroad travel a close study. They have
                    discovered that there has been no provision made for the man who erroneously
                    gets into a car which is side-tracked and swept out and scrubbed by people who
                    take in cars to scrub and laundry. He is one of the men we are striving at this
                    moment to reach with our little volume. We have each of us been that man. We are
                    yet.
                He ought to have something to read that will distract his attention. This book is
                    designed for him. Also for people who would like to travel but cannot get away
                    from home. Of course, people who do travel, will find nothing objectionable in
                    the book, but our plan is to issue a book worth about  $9 charging only fifty cents for it and then see to it that no
                    time tables or maps which will never return after they have been pulled out
                    once, shall creep in among its pages.
                It is the design of the authors to issue this guide annually unless prohibited by
                    law and to be the pioneers establishing a book which shall be designed solely
                    for the use of any body who desires to subscribe for it.
                
                    BILL NYE. JAMES
                            WHITCOMB RILEY.
                    
                
                P. S.—The authors desire to express their thanks to Mr. Riley for
                    the poetry and to Mr. Nye for the prose which have been used in this
                    book.
            
            
            
                
                
                    AUGUST—RILEY
                        15
                    ANECDOTES OF JAY GOULD—NYE
                        7
                    A BLACK HILLS EPISODE—RILEY
                        107
                    A BLASTED SNORE—NYE
                        160
                    A BRAVE REFRAIN—RILEY
                        158
                    A CHARACTER—RILEY
                        116
                    A DOSE'T OF BLUES—RILEY
                        188
                    A FALL CREEK VIEW
                        OF THE EARTHQUAKE—RILEY
                        13
                    A HINT OF SPRING—RILEY
                        140
                    A LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE—NYE
                        37
                    A TREAT ODE—RILEY
                        142
                    CRAQUEODOOM—RILEY
                        67
                    CURLY LOCKS—RILEY
                        95
                    EZRA HOUSE—RILEY
                        134
                    FROM DELPHI TO
                            CAMDEN—RILEY
                        54
                    GOOD BYE-ER HOWDY
                            DO-RILEY
                        164
                    HEALTHY BUT OUT
                            OF THE RACE—NYE
                        79
                    HER TIRED HANDS—NYE
                        126
                    HIS CRAZY BONE—RILEY
                        61
                    HIS CHRISTMAS SLED—RILEY
                        124
                    HIS FIRST WOMERN—RILEY
                        23
                    HOW TO HUNT THE FOX—NYE
                        28
                    IN A BOX—RILEY
                        182
                    IN THE AFTERNOON—RILEY
                        45
                    JULIUS CAESAR IN
                            TOWN—NYE
                        17
                    LINES ON HEARING
                        A COW BAWL—RILEY
                        85
                    
                    LINES ON TURNING OVER
                            A PASS—NYE
                        96
                    ME AND MARY—RILEY
                        87
                    MCFEETER'S FOURTH—RILEY
                        179
                    MY BACHELOR CHUM—RILEY
                        149
                    MR. SILBERBERG—RILEY
                        74
                    NIAGARA FALLS FROM THE NYE SIDE—NYE
                        89
                    NEVER TALK BACK—RILEY
                        4
                    OH, WILHELMINA, COME BACK—NYE
                        137
                    OUR WIFE—NYE
                        144
                    PRYING OPEN THE
                            FUTURE—NYE
                        68
                    SAYS HE—RILEY
                        173
                    SEEKING TO BE
                            IDENTIFIED—NYE
                        196
                    SEEKING TO SET
                            THE PUBLIC RIGHT—NYE
                        184
                    SPIRITS AT HOME—RILEY
                        77
                    SOCIETY GURGS FROM SANDY MUSH—NYE
                        166
                    SUTTERS CLAIM—RILEY
                        194
                    THIS MAN JONES—RILEY
                        25
                    THAT NIGHT—RILEY
                        100
                    THE BOY FRIEND—RILEY
                        35
                    THE CHEMIST OF
                            THE CAROLINAS—NYE
                        62
                    THE DIARY OF DARIUS T. SKINNER—NYE
                        118
                    THE GRAMMATICAL BOY—NYE
                        56
                    THE GRUESOME BALLAD OF MR. SQUINCHER—RILEY
                        5
                    THE MAN IN THE MOON—RILEY
                        122
                    THE PHILANTHROPICAL JAY—NYE
                        151
                    THE TRUTH ABOUT
                            METHUSALAH—NYE
                        102
                    THE TARHEEL COW—NYE
                        112
                    THE RISE AND FALL OF WM. JOHNSON—NYE
                        46
                    THE ROSSVILLE LECTURE COURSE—RILEY
                        109
                    WANTED A FOX—NYE
                        190
                    WHERE THE FIRST
                            MET HIS PARENTS—NYE
                        1
                    WHERE THE ROADS
                            ARE ENGAGED IN
                            FORKING—NYE
                        175
                    WHILE CIGARETTES TO ASHES TURN—RILEY
                        171
                    WHY IT WAS DONE—NYE & RILEY
                        XI
                
            
        
        
            
            Nye and Riley's Railway Guide
                
                    Where he First met his Parents.
                    Last week I visited my birthplace in the State of Maine. I waited thirty
                        years for the public to visit it, and as there didn't seem to be
                        much of a rush this spring, I thought I would go and visit it myself. I was
                        telling a friend the other day that the public did not seem to manifest the
                        interest in my birthplace that I thought it ought to, and he said I ought
                        not to mind that. "Just wait," said he, "till the
                        people of the United States have an opportunity to visit your tomb, and you
                        will be surprised to see how they will run excursion trains up there to
                        Moosehead lake, or wherever you plant yourself. It will be a perfect picnic.
                        Your hold on the American people, William, is wonderful, but your death
                        would seem to assure it, and kind of crystallize the affection now existing,
                        but still in a nebulous and gummy state."
                    
                    A man ought not to criticise his birthplace, I presume, and yet, if I were to
                        do it all over again, I do not know  whether I
                        would select that particular spot or not. Sometimes I think I would not. And
                        yet, what memories cluster about that old house! There was the place where I
                        first met my parents. It was at that time that an acquaintance sprang up
                        which has ripened in later years into mutual respect and esteem. It was
                        there that what might be termed a casual meeting took place, that has, under
                        the alchemy of resistless years, turned to golden links, forming a pleasant
                        but powerful bond of union between my parents and myself. For that reason, I
                        hope that I may be spared to my parents for many years to come.
                    Many memories now cluster about that old home, as I have said. There is,
                        also, other bric-a-brac which has accumulated since I was born there. I took
                        a small stone from the front yard as a kind of memento of the occasion and
                        the place. I do not think it has been detected yet. There was another stone
                        in the yard, so it may be weeks before any one finds out that I took one of
                        them.
                    How humble the home, and yet what a lesson it should teach the boys of
                        America! Here, amid the barren and inhospitable waste of rocks and cold, the
                        last place in the world that a great man would naturally select to be born
                        in, began the life of one who, by his own unaided effort, in after years
                        rose to the proud height of postmaster at Laramie City, Wy. T., and with an
                        estimate of the future that seemed almost prophetic, resigned before he
                        could be characterized as an offensive partisan.
                    Here on the banks of the raging Piscataquis, where winter lingers in the lap
                        of spring till it occasions a good deal of talk, there began a career which
                        has been the wonder and admiration of every vigilance committee west of the
                        turbulent Missouri.
                    There on that spot, with no inheritance but a predisposition to baldness and
                        a bitter hatred of rum; with no personal property but a misfit suspender and
                        a stone-bruise,  began a life history which has
                        never ceased to be a warning to people who have sold goods on credit.
                    It should teach the youth of our great, broad land what glorious
                        possibilities may lie concealed in the rough and tough bosom of the
                        reluctant present. It shows how steady perseverance and a good appetite will
                        always win in the end. It teaches us that wealth is not indispensable, and
                        that if we live as we should, draw out of politics at the proper time, and
                        die a few days before the public absolutely demand it, the matter of our
                        birthplace will not be considered.
                    Still, my birthplace is all right as a birthplace. It was a good, quiet place
                        in which to be born. All the old neighbors said that Shirley was a very
                        quiet place up to the time I was born there, and when I took my parents by
                        the hand and gently led them away in the spring of '53, saying,
                        "Parents, this is no place for us," it again became
                        quiet.
                    It is the only birthplace I have, however, and I hope that all the readers of
                        this sketch will feel perfectly free to go there any time and visit it and
                        carry their dinner as I did. Extravagant cordiality and overflowing
                        hospitality have always kept my birthplace back.
                
                
                
                    NEVER TALK BACK.
                    
                    
                        Never talk back! sich things is ripperhensible;
                        A feller only "corks"
                            hisse'f that jaws a man that's hot;
                        In a quarrel, ef you'll only keep your mouth shet and act
                            sensible,
                        The man that does the talkin'll git worsted
                            every shot!
                    
                    
                        Never talk back to a feller that's abusin'
                            you—
                        Jest let him carry on, and rip, and cuss and swear;
                        And when he finds his lyin' and his dammin's jest
                            amusin' you,
                        You've got him clean kaflummixed, and you want
                            to hold him there!
                    
                    
                        Never talk back, and wake up the whole community,
                        And call a man a liar, over law, er
                            Politics,—
                        You can lift and land him furder and with gracefuller impunity
                        With one good jolt of silence than a half a dozen
                            kicks!
                    
                
                
                
                    The Gruesome Ballad of Mr. Squincher.
                    
                        "Ki-yi!" said Mr. Squincher,
                        As in contemplative pose,
                        He stood before the looking-glass
                        And burnished up his nose,
                        And brushed the dandruff from a span-
                        Spick-splinter suit of clothes,—
                        "Why, bless you, Mr. Squincher,
                        "You're as handsome as a
                            rose!"
                    
                    
                    
                        "There are some," continued Squincher,
                        As he raised upon his toes
                        To catch his full reflection,
                        And the fascinating bows
                        That graced his legs,—"I reckon
                        There are some folks never knows
                        How beautiful is human legs
                        In pantaloons like those!"
                    
                    
                    
                        "But ah!" sighed Mr. Squincher,
                        As a ghastly phantom 'rose
                        And leered above his shoulder
                        Like the deadliest of foes,—
                        With fleshless arms and fingers,
                        And a skull, with glistening rows
                        Of teeth that crunched and gritted,—
                        "Its my tailor, I suppose!"
                    
                    
                        They found him in the morning—
                        So the mystic legend goes—
                        With the placid face still smiling
                        In its statuesque repose;—
                        With a lily in his left hand,
                        And in his right a rose,
                        With their fragrance curling upward
                        Through a nimbus 'round his nose.
                    
                
                
                
                    Anecdotes of Jay Gould.
                    
                    Facial Neuralgia is what is keeping Jay Gould back this summer and preventing
                        him from making as much money as he would otherwise. With good health and
                        his present methods of doing business Mr. Gould could in a few years be
                        beyond the reach of want, but he is up so much nights with his face that he
                        has to keep one gas-jet burning all the time. Besides he has cabled once to
                        Dr. Brown-Sequard for a neuralgia pill that he thought would relieve the
                        intense pain, and found after he had paid for the cablegram that every
                        druggist in New York kept the Brown-Sequard pill in stock. But when a man is
                        ill he does not care for expense, especially when he controls an Atlantic
                        cable or two.
                    This neuralgia pill is about the size of a two-year-old colt and pure white.
                        I have been compelled to take several of them myself while suffering from
                        facial neuralgia; for neuralgia does not spare the good, the true or the
                        beautiful.  She comes along and nips the poor
                        yeoman as well as the millionaire who sits in the lap of luxury.
                        Millionaires who flatter themselves that they can evade neuralgia by going
                        and sitting in the lap of luxury make a great mistake.
                    "And do you find that this large porcelain pill relieves you at all,
                        Mr. Gould?" I asked him during one of these attacks, as he sat in
                        his studio with his face tied up in hot bran.
                    "No, it does me no good whatever," said the man who likes
                        to take a lame railroad and put it on its feet by issuing more bonds.
                        "It contains a little morphine, which dulls the pain, but
                        there's nothing in the pill to cure the cause. My neuralgia comes
                        from indigestion. My appetite is four sizes too large for a man of my height
                        and every little while I overeat. I then get dangerously ill and stocks
                        become greatly depressed in consequence. I am now in a position where, if I
                        had a constitution that would stand the strain, I could get well off in a
                        few years, but I am not strong enough. Every little change in the weather
                        affects me. I see a red-headed girl on the street and immediately afterwards
                        I see one of these big white pills."
                    "Are you sure, Mr. Gould?" I asked him with some
                        solicitude, as I bent forward and inhaled the rich fragrance of the
                        carnation in his button-hole, "that you have not taken cold in some
                        way?"
                    "Possibly I have," he said, as he shrank back in a petulant
                        way, I thought. "Last week I got my feet a little damp while
                        playing the hose on some of my stocks, but I hardly think that was what
                        caused the trouble. I am apt to overeat, as I said. I am especially fond of
                        fruit, too. When I was a boy I had no trouble, because I always divided my
                        fruit with another boy, of whom I was very fond. I would always divide my
                        fruit into two equal parts, keeping one of these and eating the other
                        myself. Many and many a time when this boy and I went out together and only
                        had one  wormy apple between us, I have divided
                        it and given him the worm.
                    "As a boy, I was taught to believe that half is always better than
                        the hole."
                    "And are you not afraid that this neuralgia after it has picnicked
                        around among your features may fly to your vitals?"
                    
                    "Possibly so," said Mr. Gould, snapping the hunting case of
                        his massive silver watch with a loud report, "but I am guarding
                        against this by keeping my pocketbook wrapped up all the time in an old red
                        flannel shirt."
                    Here Mr. Gould arose and went out of the room for a long time, and I could
                        hear him pacing up and down outside, stopping now and then to peer through
                        the keyhole to  see if I had gone away. But in
                        each instance he was gratified to find that I had not. Lest any one should
                        imagine that I took advantage of his absence to peruse his private
                        correspondence, I will say here that I did not do so, as his desk was
                        securely locked.
                    Mr. Gould's habits are simple and he does not hold his cane by the
                        middle when he walks. He wears plain clothes and his shirts and collars are
                        both made of the same shade. He says he feels sorry for any one who has to
                        wear a pink shirt with a blue collar. Some day he hopes to endow a home for
                        young men who cannot afford to buy a shirt and a collar at the same
                        store.
                    He owes much of his neuralgia to a lack of exercise. Mr. Gould never takes
                        any exercise at all. His reason for this is that he sees no prospect for
                        exercise to advance in value. He says he is willing to take anything else
                        but exercise.
                    Up to within a very few years Jay Gould has always slept well at night, owing
                        to regular hours for rising and retiring and his careful abstinence from
                        tobacco and alcohol. Lately neuralgia has kept him awake a good deal at
                        night, but prior to that he used to sleep as sweetly and peacefully as a
                        weasel.
                    The story circulated some years ago to the effect that a professional burglar
                        broke into Mr. Gould's room in the middle of the night and before
                        he could call the police was robbed of his tools, is not true. People who
                        have no higher aim in life than the peddling about of such improbable yarns
                        would do well to ascertain the truth of these reports before giving them
                        circulation.
                    The story that Mr. Gould once killed a steer and presented his hoofs to the
                        poor with the remark that it would help to keep sole and body together, also
                        turned out to have no foundation whatever in fact, but was set afloat by an
                        English wag who was passionately fond of a bit of pleasantry, don't
                        you know.
                    
                    Thus it is that a man who has acquired a competence by means of honest toil
                        becomes the target for the barbed shaft of contumely.
                    Mr. Gould is said to be a good conversationalist, though he prefers to close
                        his eyes and listen to others. Nothing pleases him better than to lure a man
                        on and draw him out and encourage him to turn his mind wrong side out and
                        empty it. He then richly repays this confidence by saying that if it
                        doesn't rain any more we will have a long dry time. The man then
                        goes away inflated with the idea that he has a pointer from Mr. Gould which
                        will materially affect values. A great many men are playing croquet at the
                        poor-house this summer who owe their prosperity to tips given them by Mr.
                        Gould.
                    As a fair sample of the way a story about a great man grows and becomes
                        distorted at the same time, one incident will be sufficient. Some years ago,
                        it is said, Mr. Gould bought a general admission ticket to hear Sarah
                        Bernhardt as Camille. Several gentlemen who were sitting near where he stood
                        asked him why he did not take a seat. Instead of answering directly that he
                        could not get one he replied that he did not care for a seat, as he wanted
                        to be near the door when the building fell. Shortly after this he had more
                        seats than he could use. I give this story simply to illustrate how such a
                        thing may be distorted, for upon investigation it was found to have occurred
                        at a Patti concert, and not at a Bernhardt exhibition at all.
                    Mr. Gould's career, with its attendant success, should teach us two
                        things, at least. One is, that it always pays to do a kind act, for a great
                        deal of his large fortune has been amassed by assisting men like Mr. Field,
                        when they were in a tight place, and taking their depressed stock off their
                        hands while in a shrunken condition. He believes also that the merciful man
                        is merciful to his stock.
                    He says he owes much of his success in life to economy  and neuralgia. He also loves to relieve distress on Wall
                        street, and is so passionately fond of this as he grows older that he has
                        been known to distress other stock men just for the pleasant thrill it gave
                        him to relieve them.
                    Jay Gould is also a living illustration of what a young man may do with
                        nothing but his bare hands in America. John L. Sullivan and Gould are both
                        that way. Mr. Gould and Col. Sullivan could go into Siberia
                        to-morrow—little as they are known there — and with a
                        small Gordon press, a quire of bond paper and a pair of three-pennyweight
                        gloves they would soon own Siberia, with a right of way across the rest of
                        Europe and a first mortgage on the Russian throne. As fast as Col. Sullivan
                        knocked out a dynasty Jay could come in and administer on the estate. This
                        would be a powerful combination. It would afford us an opportunity also to
                        get some of those Russian hay-fever names and chilblains by red message. Mr.
                        Gould would get a good deal of money out of the transaction and Sullivan
                        would get ozone.
                
                
                
                    A Fall-Crick View of the Earthquake
                    
                    
                        I kin hump my back and take the rain,
                        And I don't keer how she pours;
                        I kin keep kindo' ca'm in a thunder storm,
                        No matter how loud she roars;
                        I haint much skeered o' the lightnin',
                        Ner I haint sich awful shakes
                        Afeared o' cyclones—but I
                            don't want none
                        O' yer dad-burned old earth-quakes!
                    
                    
                        As long as my legs keeps stiddy,
                        And long as my head keeps plum,
                        And the buildin' stays in the front lot,
                        I still kin whistle, some!
                        But about the time the old clock
                        Flops off'n the mantel-shelf,
                        And the bureau skoots fer the kitchen,
                        I'm a-goin' to skoot, myself!
                    
                    
                        Plague-take! ef you keep me stabled
                        While any earthquakes is around!—
                        I'm jist like the stock,—I'll
                            beller,
                        
                        And break fer the open ground!
                        And I 'low you'd be as nervous,
                        And in jist about my fix,
                        When yer whole farm slides from inunder you,
                        And on'y the mor'gage sticks!
                    
                    
                        Now cars haint a-goin' to kill you
                        Ef you don't drive 'crost the track;
                        Crediters never'll jerk you up
                        Ef you go and pay 'em back;
                        You kin stand all moral and mundane storms
                        Ef you'll on'y jist behave—
                        But a' EARTHQUAKE:—well, ef it wanted you,
                        It 'ud husk you out o' yer grave!
                    
                
                
                
                    AUCUST
                    
                    
                        O mellow month and merry month,
                        Let me make love to you,
                        And follow you around the world
                        As knights their ladies do.
                        I thought your sisters beautiful,
                        Both May and April, too,
                        But April she had rainy eyes,
                        And May had eyes of blue.
                    
                    
                    
                        And June—I liked the singing
                        Of her lips, and liked her smile—
                        But all her songs were promises
                        Of something, after while;
                        And July's face—the lights and shade
                        That may not long beguile,
                        With alternations o' er the wheat,
                        The dreamer at the stile.
                    
                    
                        But you!—ah, you are tropical,
                        Your beauty is so rare:
                        Your eyes are clearer, deeper eyes
                        Than any, anywhere;
                        Mysterious, imperious,
                        Deliriously fair,
                        O listless Andalusian maid,
                        With bangles in your hair!
                    
                
                
                
                    Julius Caesar in Town.
                    
                    HE PLAY of "Julius Cæsar," which has been at the Academy of
                        Music this week, has made a great hit. Messrs. Booth and Barrett very wisely
                        decided that if it succeeded here it would do well anywhere. If the people
                        of New York like a play and say so, it is almost sure to go elsewhere.
                        Judging by this test the play of "Julius Cæsar" has a
                        glowing future ahead of it. It was written by Gentlemen Shakespeare, Bacon
                        and Donnelly, who collaborated together on it. Shakespeare did the lines and
                        plot, Bacon furnished the cipher and Donnelly called attention to it through
                        the papers.
                    The scene of "Julius Cæsar" is laid in Rome just before the
                        railroad was completed to that place. In order to understand the play itself
                        we must glance briefly at the leading characters which are introduced and
                        upon whom its success largely depends.
                    
                    Julius Cæsar first attracted attention through the Roman papers by calling
                        the attention of the medical faculty to the now justly celebrated Cæsarian
                        operation. Taking advantage of the advertisement thus attained, he soon rose
                        to prominence and flourished considerably from 100 to 44 B.C., when a
                        committee of representative citizens and property-owners of Rome called upon
                        him and on behalf of the people begged leave to assassinate him as a mark of
                        esteem. He was stabbed twenty-three times between Pompey's Pillar
                        and eleven o'clock, many of which were mortal. This account of the
                        assassination is taken from a local paper and is graphic, succinct and lacks
                        the sensational elements so common and so lamentable in our own time. Cæsar
                        was the implacable foe of the aristocracy and refused to wear a plug hat up
                        to the day of his death. Sulla once said, before Cæsar had made much of a
                        showing, that some day this young man would be the ruin of the aristocracy,
                        and twenty years afterwards when Cæsar sacked, assassinated and holocausted
                        a whole theological seminary for saying "eyether" and
                        "nyether," the old settlers recalled what Sulla had
                        said.
                    Cæsar continued to eat pie with a knife and in many other ways to endear
                        himself to the masses until 68 B.C., when he ran for Quæstor. Afterward he
                        was Ædile, during the term of which office he sought to introduce a number
                        of new games and to extend the limit on some of the older ones. From this to
                        the Senate was but a step. In the Senate he was known as a good Speaker, but
                        ambitious, and liable to turn up during a close vote when his enemies
                        thought he was at home doing his chores. This made him at times odious to
                        those who opposed him, and when he defended Cataline and offered to go on
                        his bond, Cæsar came near being condemned to death himself.
                    In 62 B. C. he went to Spain as Proprætor, intending to write a book about
                        the Spanish people and their customs  as soon
                        as he got back, but he was so busy on his return that he did not have time
                        to do so.
                    Cæsar was a powerful man with the people, and while in the Senate worked hard
                        for his constituents, while other Senators were having their photographs
                        taken. He went into the army when the war broke out, and after killing a
                        great many people against whom he certainly could not have had anything
                        personal, he returned, headed by the Rome Silver Cornet Band and leading a
                        procession over two miles in length. It was at this time that he was
                        tendered a crown just as he was passing the City Hall, but thrice he refused
                        it. After each refusal the people applauded and encored him till he had to
                        refuse it again. It is at about this time the play opens. Cæsar has just
                        arrived on a speckled courser and dismounted outside the town. He comes in
                        at the head of the procession with the understanding that the crown is to be
                        offered him just as he crosses over to the Court-House.
                    Here Cassius and Brutus meet, and Cassius tries to make a Mugwump of Brutus,
                        so that they can organize a new movement. Mr. Edwin Booth takes the
                        character of Brutus and Mr. Lawrence Barrett takes that of Cassius. I would
                        not want to take the character of Cassius myself, even if I had run short of
                        character and needed some very much indeed, but Mr. Barrett takes it and
                        does it first-rate. Mr. Booth also plays Brutus so that old settlers here
                        say it seems almost like having Brutus here among us again.
                    Brutus was a Roman republican with strong tariff tendencies. He was a good
                        extemporaneous after-dinner speaker and a warm personal friend of Cæsar,
                        though differing from him politically. In assassinating Cæsar, Brutus used
                        to say afterwards he did not feel the slightest personal animosity, but did
                        it entirely for the good of the party. That is one thing I like about
                        politics—you can cut out a man's vitals and hang them on
                        the Christmas tree and drag  the fair name of
                        his wife or mother around through the sewers for six weeks before election,
                        and so long as it is done for the good of the party it is all right.
                    So when Brutus is authorized by the caucus to assassinate Cæsar he feels
                        that, like being President of the United States, it is a disagreeable job;
                        but if the good of the party seems really to demand it he will do it, though
                        he wishes it distinctly understood that personally he hasn't got a
                        thing against Cæsar.
                    In act 4 Brutus sits up late reading a story by E. P. Roe, and just as he is
                        in the most exciting part of it the ghost of the assassinated Cæsar appears
                        and states that it will meet him with hard gloves at Philippi. Brutus looks
                        bored and says that he is not in condition, but the ghost leaves it that way
                        and Brutus looks still more bored till the ghost goes out through a white
                        oak door without opening it.
                    At Philippi, Brutus sees that there is no hope of police interference, and so
                        before time is called he inserts his sword into his being and dies while the
                        polite American audience puts on its overcoat and goes out, looking over its
                        shoulder to see that Brutus does not take advantage of this moment, while
                        the people are going away, to resuscitate himself.
                    The play is thoroughly enjoyable all the way through, especially
                        Cæsar's funeral. The idea of introducing a funeral and engaging
                        Mark Antony to deliver the eulogy, with the understanding that he was to
                        have his traveling expenses paid and the privilege of selling the sermon to
                        a syndicate, shows genius on the part of the joint authors. All the way
                        through the play is good, but sad. There is no divertisement or tank in it,
                        but the funeral more than makes up for all that.
                    Where Portia begs Brutus, before the assassination, to tell her all and let
                        her in on the ground floor, and asks what the matter is, and he claims that
                        it is malaria, and she  still insists and asks,
                        "Dwell I but in the suburbs of your good pleasure?" and he
                        states, "You are my true and honorable wife, as dear to me as are
                        the ruddy drops that visit my sad heart," I forgot myself and wept
                        my new plug hat two-thirds full. It is as good as anything there is in Josh
                        Whitcomb's play.
                    Booth and Barrett have the making of good actors in them. I met both of these
                        gentlemen in Wyoming some  years ago. We met by
                        accident. They were going to California and I was coming back. By some
                        oversight we had both selected the same track, and we were thrown together.
                        I do not know whether they will recall my face or not. I was riding on the
                        sleeper truck at the time of the accident. I always take a sleeper and
                        always did. I rode on the truck because I didn't want to ride
                        inside the car and have  to associate with a
                        wealthy porter who looked down upon me. I am the man who was found down the
                        creek the next day gathering wild ferns and murmuring, "Where am
                        I?"
                    The play of "Julius Cæsar" is one which brings out the
                        meanness and magnetism of Cassius, and emphasizes the mistaken patriotism of
                        Brutus. It is full of pathos, duplicity, assassination, treachery, erroneous
                        loyalty, suicide, hypocrisy, and all the intrigue, jealousy, cowardice and
                        deviltry which characterized the politics of fifty years B.C., but which
                        now, thanks to the enlightenment and refinement which twenty centuries have
                        brought, are known no more forever. Let us not forget, as we enter upon the
                        year 1888, that it is a Presidential year, and that all acrimony will be
                        buried under the dew and the daisies, and that no matter how high party
                        spirit may run, there will be no personal enmity.
                
                
                
                    His First Womern.
                    
                    
                        I buried my first womern
                        In the spring; and in the fall
                        I was married to my second,
                        And haint settled yit at all!—
                        Fer I'm allus
                            thinkin'—thinkin'
                        Of the first one's peaceful ways,
                        A-bilin' soap and singin'
                        Of the Lord's amazin' grace.
                    
                    
                    
                        And I'm thinkin' of her, constant,
                        Dyin' carpet-chain and stuff,
                        And a-makin' up rag-carpets,
                        When the floor was good enough!
                        And I mind her he'p a-feedin',
                        And I recollect her now
                        A-drappin' corn, and keepin'
                        Clos't behind me and the plow!
                    
                    
                        And I'm allus thinkin' of her
                        Reddin' up around the house;
                        Er cookin' fer the farm-hands;
                        Er a-drivin' up the cows.—
                        And there she lays out yender
                        By the lower medder-fence,
                        Where the cows was barely grazin',
                        And they're usin' ever sence.
                    
                    
                        And when I look acrost there—
                        Say its when the clover's ripe,
                        And I'm settin', in the evenin',
                        On the porch here, with my pipe,
                        And the other'n hollers
                            "Henry!"—
                        W'y they ain't no sadder thing
                        Than to think of my first womern
                        And her funeral last spring
                        Was a year ago.
                    
                
                
                
                    This Man Jones.
                    
                        This man Jones was what you'd call
                        A feller 'at had no sand at all;
                        Kindo consumpted, and undersize,
                        And saller-complected, with big sad eyes,
                        And a kind-of-a-sort-of-a-hang-dog style,
                        And a sneakin' kind-of-a-half-way smile
                        That kindo give him away to us
                        As a preacher, maybe, or somepin' wuss.
                    
                    
                        Didn't take with the gang—well, no—
                        But still we managed to use him,
                            though,—
                        Coddin' the gilley along the rout'
                        And drivin' the stakes that he pulled out;—
                        For I was one of the bosses then
                        And of course stood in with the canvassmen—'
                        And the way we put up jobs, you know,
                        On this man Jones jes' beat the show!
                    
                    
                        Used to rattle him scandalous,
                        And keep the feller a-dodgin' us,
                        And a-shyin' round jes' skeered to death,
                        And a-feered to whimper above his breath;
                        Give him a cussin', and then a kick,
                        And then a kind-of-a back-hand lick—
                        Jes' for the fun of seein' him climb
                        Around with a head on half the time.
                    
                    
                    
                        But what was the curioust thing to me,
                        Was along o' the party—let me see,—
                        Who was our "Lion Queen" last
                            year?—
                        Mamzelle Zanty, er De La Pierre?—
                        Well, no matter!—a stunnin' mass,
                        With a red-ripe lip, and a long eye-lash,
                        And a figger sich as the angels owns—
                        And one too many for this man Jones!
                    
                    
                        He'd always wake in the afternoon
                        As the band waltzed in on "the lion tune,"
                        And there, from the time that she'd go in,
                        Till she'd back out of the cage agin,
                        He'd stand, shaky and limber-kneed—
                        'Specially when she come to "feed
                        The beast raw meat with her naked hand"—
                        And all that business, you understand.
                    
                    
                        And it was resky in that den—
                        For I think she juggled three cubs then,
                        And a big "green" lion 'at used to
                            smash
                        Collar-bones fer old Frank Nash;
                        And I reckon now she haint forgot
                        The afternoon old "Nero" sot
                        His paws on her:—but as fer me,
                        Its a sort-of-a-mixed-up mystery.
                    
                    
                        Kindo' remember an awful roar,
                        And see her back fer the bolted door—
                        See the cage rock—heerd her call
                        "God have mercy!" and that was all—
                        For thar haint no livin' man can tell
                        What it's like when a thousand yell
                        In female tones, and a thousand more
                        Howl in bass till their throats is sore!
                    
                    
                    
                        But the keeper said as they dragged her out,
                        They heerd some feller laugh and shout:
                        "Save her! Quick! I've got the
                            cuss!"
                        . . . . . . And yit she waked and smiled on us!
                        And we daren't flinch—fer the
                            doctor said,
                        Seein' as this man Jones was dead,
                        Better to jes' not let her know
                        Nothin' o' that fer a week or so.
                    
                
                
                
                    How to Hunt the Fox.
                    
                    THE joyous season for hunting is again upon us, and with the gentle fall of
                        the autumn leaf and the sough of the scented breezes about the gnarled and
                        naked limbs of the wailing trees — the huntsman comes with his hark
                        and his halloo and hurrah, boys, the swift rush of the chase, the thrilling
                        scamper 'cross country, the mad dash through the Long
                        Islander's pumpkin patch—also the mad dash, dash, dash of
                        the farmer, the low moan of the disabled and frozen-toed hen as the whooping
                        horsemen run her down; the wild shriek of the children, the low melancholy
                        wail of the frightened shoat as he flees away to the straw pile, the quick
                        yet muffled plunk of the frozen tomato and the dull scrunch of the seed
                        cucumber.
                    The huntsman now takes the flannels off his fox, rubs his stiffened limbs
                        with gargling oil, ties a bunch of fire-crackers  to his tail and runs him around the barn a few times to see if he is in
                        good order.
                    The foxhound is a cross of the bloodhound, the gray-hound, the bulldog and
                        the chump. When you step on his tail he is said to be in full cry. The
                        foxhound obtains from his ancestors on the bloodhound side of the house his
                        keen scent, which enables him while in full cry 'cross country to
                        pause and hunt for chipmunks. He also obtains from the bloodhound branch of
                        his family a wild yearning to star in an "Uncle Tom"
                        company, and watch little Eva meander up the flume at two dollars per week.
                        From the grayhound he gets his most miraculous speed, which enables him to
                        attain a rate of velocity so great that he is unable to halt during the
                        excitement of the chase, frequently running so far during the day that it
                        takes him a week to get back, when, of course, all interest has died out.
                        From the bulldog the foxhound obtains his great tenacity of purpose, his
                        deep-seated convictions, his quick perceptions, his love of home and his
                        clinging nature. From the chump the foxhound gets his high intellectuality
                        and that mental power which enables him to distinguish almost at a glance
                        the salient points of difference between a two-year-old steer and a
                        two-dollar bill.
                    The foxhound is about two feet in height, and 120 of them would be considered
                        an ample number for a quiet little fox hunt. Some hunters think this number
                        inadequate, but unless the fox be unusually skittish and crawl under the
                        barn, 120 foxhounds ought to be enough. The trouble generally is that
                        hunters make too much noise, thus scaring the fox so that he tries to get
                        away from them. This necessitates hard riding and great activity on the part
                        of the whippers-in. Frightening a fox almost always results in sending him
                        out of the road and compelling horsemen to stop in order to take down a
                        panel of fence every little while that they may follow the animal, and
                        before you can  get the fence put up again the
                        owner is on the ground, and after you have made change with him and mounted
                        again the fox may be nine miles away. Try by all means to keep your fox in
                        the road!
                    It makes a great difference what kind of fox you use, however. I once had a
                        fox on my Pumpkin Butte estates that lasted me three years, and I never knew
                        him to shy or turn out of the road for anything but a loaded team. He was
                        the best fox for hunting purposes that I ever had. Every spring I would
                        sprinkle him with Scotch snuff and put him away in the bureau till fall. He
                        would then come out bright and chipper. He was always ready to enter into
                        the chase with all the chic and embonpoint of a regular Kenosha, and nothing
                        pleased him better than to be about eight miles in advance of my
                        thoroughbred pack in full cry, scampering 'cross country, while
                        stretching back a few miles behind the dogs followed a pale young man and
                        his fiancier, each riding a horse that had sat down too hard on its tail
                        some time and driven it into his system about six joints.
                    Some hunters, who are madly and passionately devoted to the sport, leap their
                        horses over fences, moats, donjon keeps, hedges and current bushes with
                        utter sang froid and the wild, unfettered toot ongsomble of a brass band. It
                        is one of the most spirited and touchful of sights to see a young fox-hunter
                        going home through the gloaming with a full cry in one hand and his pancreas
                        in the other.
                    Some like to be in at the death, as it is called, and it is certainly a
                        laudable ambition. To see 120 dogs hold out against a ferocious fox weighing
                        nine pounds; to watch the brave little band of dogs and whippers-in and
                        horses with sawed-off tails, making up in heroism what they lack in numbers,
                        succeeding at last in ridding the country of the ferocious brute which has
                        long been the acknowledged foe of the human race, is indeed a fine
                        sight.
                    
                    We are too apt to regard fox-hunting merely as a relaxation, a source of
                        pleasure, and the result of a desire to do the way people do in the novels
                        which we steal from English authors: but this is not all. To successfully
                        hunt a fox, to jump fences 'cross country like an unruly steer, is
                        no child's play. To ride all day on a very hot and restless saddle,
                        trying to lope while your horse is trotting, giving your friends a good view
                        of the country between yourself and your horse, then leaping stone walls,
                        breaking your collar-bone in four places, pulling out one eye and leaving it
                        hanging on a plum tree, or going home at night with your transverse colon
                        wrapped around the pommel of your saddle and your liver in an old newspaper,
                        requires the greatest courage.
                    Too much stress cannot be placed upon the costume worn while fox-hunting, and
                        in fact, that is, after all, the life and soul of the chase. For ladies,
                        nothing looks better than a close-fitting jacket, sewed together with thread
                        of the same shade and a skirt. Neat-fitting cavalry boots and a plug hat
                        complete the costume. Then, with a hue in one hand and a cry in the other,
                        she is prepared to mount. Lead the horse up to a stone wall or a freight car
                        and spring lightly into the saddle with a glad cry. A freight car is the
                        best thing from which to mount a horse, but it is too unwieldy and
                        frequently delays the chase. For this reason, too, much luggage should not
                        be carried on a fox-hunt. Some gentlemen carry a change of canes, neatly
                        concealed in a shawl strap, but even this may be dispensed with.
                    For gentlemen, a dark, four-button cutaway coat, with neat, loose-fitting,
                        white panties, will generally scare a fox into convulsions, so that he may
                        be easily killed with a club. A short-waisted plug hat may be worn also, in
                        order to distinguish the hunter from the whipper-in, who wears a baseball
                        cap. The only fox-hunting I have ever done was 
                         on board an impetuous, tough-bitted,
                        fore-and-aft horse that had emotional insanity. I was dressed in a
                        swallow-tail coat, waistcoat of Scotch plaid Turkish toweling, and a pair of
                        close-fitting breeches of etiquette tucked into my boot-tops. As I was away
                        from home at the time and could not reach my own steed I was obliged to
                        mount a spirited steed with high, intellectual hips, one white eye and a big
                        red nostril that you could set a Shanghai hen in. This horse, as soon as the
                        pack broke into full cry, climbed over a fence that had wrought-iron briers
                        on it, lit in a corn field, stabbed his hind leg through a sere and yellow
                        pumpkin, which he wore the rest of the day, with seven yards of pumpkin vine
                        streaming out behind, and away we dashed 'cross country. I remained
                        mounted not because I enjoyed it, for I did not, but because I dreaded to
                        dismount. I hated to get off in pieces. If I can't get off a
                        horse's back as a whole, I would rather adhere to the horse. I will
                        adhere that I did so.
                    We did not see the fox, but we saw almost everything else. I remember, among
                        other things, of riding through a hothouse and how I enjoyed it. A morning
                        scamper through a conservatory when the syringas and Jonquils  and Jack roses lie cuddled up together in
                        their little beds, is a thing to remember and look back to and pay for. To
                        stand knee-deep in glass and gladiolas, to smell the mashed and mussed up
                        mignonette and the last fragrant sigh of the scrunched heliotrope beneath
                        the hoof of your horse, while far away the deep-mouthed baying of the hoarse
                        hounds, hotly hugging the reeking trail of the anise-seed bag, calls on the
                        gorgeously caparisoned hills to give back their merry music or fork it over
                        to other answering hills, is joy to the huntsman's heart.
                    On, on I rode with my unconfined locks streaming behind me in the autumn
                        wind. On and still on I sped, the big, bright pumpkin slipping up and down
                        the gambrel of my spirited horse at every jump. On and ever on we went,
                        shedding terror and pumpkin seeds along our glittering track till my proud
                        steed ran his leg in a gopher hole and fell over one of those machines that
                        they put on a high-headed steer to keep him from jumping fences. As the
                        horse fell, the necklace of this hickory poke flew up and adjusted itself
                        around my throat. In an instant my steed was on his feet again, and gayly we
                        went forward while the prong of this barbarous appliance, ever and anon
                        plowed into a brand new culvert or rooted up a clover field. Every time it
                        ran into an orchard or a cemetery it would jar my neck and knock me silly.
                        But I could see with joy that it reduced the speed of my horse. At last as
                        the sun went down, reluctantly, it seemed to me, for he knew that he would
                        never see such riding again, my ill-spent horse fell with a hollow moan,
                        curled up, gave a spasmodic quiver with his little, nerveless, sawed-off
                        tail and died.
                    The other huntsmen succeeded in treeing the anise-seed bag at sundown, in
                        time to catch the 6 o'clock train home.
                    Fox-hunting is one of the most thrilling pastimes of which I know, and for
                        young men whose parents have amassed large sums of money in the intellectual
                        pursuit of  hides and tallow, the meet, the
                        chase, the scamper, the full cry, the cover, the stellated fracture, the
                        yelp of the pack, the yip, the yell of triumph, the confusion, the whoop,
                        the holla, the hallos, the hurrah, the abrasion, the snort of the hunter,
                        the concussion, the sward, the open, the earth stopper, the strangulated
                        hernia, the glad cry of the hound as he brings home the quivering seat of
                        the peasant's pantaloons, the yelp of joy as he lays at his
                        master's feet, the strawberry mark of the rustic, all, all are
                        exhilarating to the sons of our American nobility.
                    Fox-hunting combines the danger and the wild, tumultuous joy of the
                        skating-rink, the toboggan slide, the mush-and-milk sociable and the straw
                        ride.
                    With a good horse, an air cushion, a reliable earth-stopper and an anise-seed
                        bag, a man must indeed be thoroughly blase who can not enjoy a scamper
                        across country, over the Pennsylvania wold, the New Jersey mere, the
                        Connecticut moor, the Indiana glade, the Missouri brake, the Michigan mead,
                        the American tarn, the fen, the gulch, the buffalo wallow, the cranberry
                        marsh, the glen, the draw, the canyon, the ravine, the forks, the bottom or
                        the settlement.
                    For the young American nobleman whose ducal father made his money by
                        inventing a fluent pill, or who gained his great wealth through relieving
                        humanity by means of a lung pad, a liver pad, a kidney pad or a foot pad,
                        fox-hunting is first-rate.
                
                
                
                    The Boy-Friend.
                    
                    
                        LARENCE, my boy-friend, hale and strong,
                        O, he is as jolly as he is young;
                        And all of the laughs of the lyre belong
                        To the boy all unsung:
                    
                    
                        So I want to sing somthing in his behalf—
                        To clang some chords, for the good it is
                        To know he is near, and to have the laugh
                        Of that wholesome voice of his.
                    
                    
                        I want to tell him in gentler ways
                        Than prose may do, that the arms of rhyme,
                        Warm and tender with tuneful praise,
                        Are about him all the time.
                    
                    
                        I want him to know that the quietest nights
                        We have passed together are yet with me,
                        Roistering over the old delights
                        That were born of his company.
                    
                    
                        I want him to know how my soul esteems
                        The fairy stories of Anderson,
                        And the glad translations of all the themes
                        Of the hearts of boyish men.
                    
                    
                    
                        Want him to know that my fancy flows,
                        With the lilt of a dear old-fashioned tune,
                        Through "Lewis Carroll's" poemly
                            prose,
                        And the tale of "The Bold Dragoon."
                    
                    
                        O, this is the Prince that I would sing—
                        Would drape and garnish in velvet line,
                        Since courtlier far than any king
                        Is this brave boy-friend of mine!
                    
                
                
                
                    A Letter of Acceptance.
                    The secretary of the Ashfield Farmers' Club, of Ashfield, Mass., Mr.
                        E. D. Church, informs me by United States mail that upon receipt of my
                        favorable reply I will become an honorary member of that club, along with
                        George William Curtis, Prof. Norton, Prof. Stanley Hall, of Harvard, and
                        other wet-browed toilers in the catnip-infested domain of Agriculture.
                    I take this method of thanking the Ashfield Farmers' Club, through
                        its secretary, for the honor thus all so unworthily bestowed, and joyfully
                        accept the honorary membership, with the understanding, however, that during
                        the County Fair the solemn duty of delivering the annual address from the
                        judges' stand, in tones that will not only ring along down the
                        corridors of time, but go thundering three times around a half-mile track
                        and be heard above the rhythmic plunk of the hired man who is trying to
                        ascertain, by means of a large mawl and a thumping machine, how hard he can
                        strike, shall fall upon Mr. Curtis or other honorary members of the club. I
                        have a voice that does very well to express endearment, or other subdued
                        emotions, but it is not effective at a County Fair. Spectators see the
                        wonderful play of my features, but they only hear the low refrain of the
                        haughty Clydesdale steed, who has a neighsal voice and wears his tail in a
                        Grecian coil. I received $150 once for addressing a race-track one mile in
                        length on "The Use and Abuse of Ensilage as a Narcotic." I
                        made the gestures, but the sentiments were those of the four-ton Percheron
                        charger, Little Medicine, dam Eloquent.
                    
                    I spoke under a low shed and rather adverse circumstances. In talking with
                        the committee afterwards, as I wrapped up my gestures and put them back in
                        the shawl  strap, I said that I felt almost
                        ashamed to receive such a price for the sentiments of others, but they said
                        that was all right. No one expected to hear an Agricultural Address.  They claimed that it was most generally purely
                        spectacular, and so they regarded my speech as a great success. I used the
                        same gestures afterwards in speaking of "The Great Falling Off
                        Among Bare-Back Riders in the Circuses of the Present Day."
                    I would also like to be excused from any duties as a judge of curly-faced
                        stock or as an umpire of ornamental needlework. After a person has had a
                        fountain pen kicked endwise through his chest by the animal to which he has
                        awarded the prize, and later on has his features worked up into a giblet pie
                        by the owner of the animal to whom he did not award the prize, he does not
                        ask for public recognition at the hands of his fellow-citizens. It is the
                        same in the matter of ornamental needlework and gaudy quilts, which goad a
                        man to drink and death. While I am proud to belong to a farmers'
                        club and "change works" with a hearty, whole-souled
                        ploughman like George William Curtis, I hope that at all County Fairs or
                        other intellectual hand-to-hand contests between outdoor orators and other
                        domestic animals, I may be excused, and that when judges of inflamed slumber
                        robes and restless tidies, which roll up and fall over the floor or adhere
                        to the backs of innocent people; or stiff, hard Doric pillow-shams which do
                        not in any way enhance the joys of sleep; or beautiful, pale-blue satin
                        pincushions, which it would be wicked to put a pin in and which will
                        therefore ever and forevermore mock the man who really wants a pin, just as
                        a beautiful match-safe stands idly through the long vigils of the night,
                        year after year, only to laugh at the man who staggers towards it and falls
                        up against it and finds it empty; or like the glorious inkstand which is so
                        pretty and so fragile that it stands around with its hands in its pockets
                        acquiring dust and dead flies for centuries, so that when you are in a hurry
                        you stick your pen into a small chamber of horrors—I say when the
                        judges are selected for this department I would rather have my name omitted
                        from the  panel, as I have formed or expressed
                        an opinion and have reasonable doubts and conscientious scruples which it
                        would require testimony to remove, and I am not qualified anyway, and I have
                        been already placed in jeopardy once, and that is enough.
                    Mr. Church writes that the club has taken up, discussed and settled all
                        points of importance bearing upon Agriculture, from the tariff up to the
                        question of whether or not turpentine poured in a cow's ear
                        ameliorates the pangs of hollow horn. He desires suggestions and questions
                        for discussion. That shows the club to be thoroughly alive. It will soon be
                        Spring, and we cannot then discuss these matters. New responsibilities will
                        be added day by day in the way of stock, and we will have to think of names
                        for them. Would it not be well before the time comes for active farm work to
                        think out a long list of names before the little strangers arrive? Nothing
                        serves to lower us in the estimation of our fellow-farmers or the world more
                        than the frequent altercations between owners and their hired help over what
                        name they shall give a weary, wobbly calf who has just entered the great
                        arena of life, full of hopes and aspirations, perhaps, but otherwise
                        absolutely empty. Let us consider this before Spring fairly opens, so that
                        we may be prepared for anything of this kind.
                    One more point may properly come before the club at its next meeting, and I
                        mention it here because I may be so busy at Washington looking after our
                        other interests that I cannot get to the club meeting. I refer to the
                        evident change in climate here from year to year, and its effect upon seeds
                        purchased of florists and seedsmen generally.
                    Twenty years ago you could plant a seed according to directions and it would
                        produce a plant which seemed to resemble in a general way the picture on the
                        outside of the package. Now, under the fluctuating influences of
                        irresponsible isotherms, phlegmatic Springs, rare June weather  and overdone weather in August, I find it
                        almost impossible to produce a plant or vegetable which in any way resembles
                        its portrait. Is it my fault or the fault of the climate? I wish the club
                        would take hold of this at its next regular meeting. I first noticed the
                        change in the summer of '72, I think. I purchased a small package
                        of early Scotch plaid curled kale with a beautiful picture on the outside.
                        It was as good a picture of Scotch kale as I ever saw. I could imagine how
                        gay and light-hearted it was the day it went up to the studio and had its
                        picture taken for this purpose. A short editorial paragraph under the
                        picture stated that I should plant in quick, rich soil, in rows four inches
                        apart, to a depth of one inch, cover lightly and then roll. I did so. No
                        farmer of my years enjoys rolling better than I do.
                    In a few weeks the kale came up but turned out to be a canard. I then waited
                        two weeks more and other forms of vegetation made their appearance. None of
                        them were kale. A small delegation of bugs which deal mostly with kale came
                        into the garden one day, looked at the picture on the discarded paper, then
                        examined what had crawled out through the ground and went away. I began to
                        fear then that climatic influences had been at work on the seeds, but I had
                        not fully given up all hope.
                    At first the plants seemed to waver and hesitate over whether they had better
                        be wild parsnips or Lima beans. Then I concluded that they had decided to be
                        foliage plants or rhubarb. But they did not try to live up to their
                        portraits. Pretty soon I discovered that they had no bugs which seemed to go
                        with them, and then I knew they were weeds. Things that are good to eat
                        always have bugs and worms on them, while tansy and castor-oil go through
                        life unmolested.
                    I ordered a new style of gladiola eight years ago of a man who had his
                        portrait in the bow of his seed catalogue. If he succeeds no better in
                        resembling his portrait than his  gladiolas did
                        in resembling theirs, he must be a human onion whose presence may easily be
                        detected at a great distance.
                    Last year I planted the seeds of a watermelon which I bought of a New York
                        seedsman who writes war articles winters and sells garden seeds in the
                        Spring. The portrait of this watermelon would tempt most any man to climb a
                        nine-rail fence in the dead of night and forget all else in order to drown
                        his better nature and his nose in its cool bosom. People came for miles to
                        look at the picture of this melon and went away with a pleasant taste in
                        their mouths.
                    The plants were a little sluggish, though I planted in hills far apart each
                        way in a rich warm loam enriched by everything that could make a sincere
                        watermelon get up and hump itself. The melons were to be very large indeed,
                        with a centre like a rose. According to the picture, these melons generally
                        grew so large and plenty that most everybody had to put side-boards on the
                        garden fence to keep them from falling over into other farms and annoying
                        people who had all the melons they needed. I fought squash bugs, cut worms,
                        Hessian flies, chinch bugs, curculio, mange, pip, drought, dropsy,
                        caterpillars and contumely till the latter part of August, when a friend
                        from India came to visit me. I decided to cut a watermelon in honor of his
                        arrival. When the proper moment had arrived and the dinner had progressed
                        till the point of fruit, the tropical depths of my garden gave up their
                        season's wealth in the shape of a low-browed citron about as large
                        and succulent as a hot ball.
                    I have had other similar experiences, and I think we ought to do something
                        about it if we can. I have planted the seed of the morning glory and the
                        moon flower and dreamed at night that my home looked like a
                        florist's advertisement, but when leafy June came a bunch of Norway
                        oats and a hill of corn were trying to climb the strings nailed up for the
                        use of my non-resident vines. I have planted with  song and laughter the seeds of the ostensible pansy and
                        carnation, only in tears to reap the bachelor's button and the
                        glistening foliage of the sorghum plant. I have planted in faith and a deep,
                        warm soil, with pleasing hope in my heart and a dark-red picture on the
                        outside of the package, only to harvest the low, vulgar jimson weed and the
                        night-blooming bull thistle.
                    Does the mean temperature or the average rainfall have anything to do with
                        it? If statistics are working these changes they ought to be stopped. For my
                        own part, however, I am led to believe that our seedsmen put so much money
                        into their catalogues that they do not have anything left to use in the
                        purchase of seeds. Good religion and very fair cookies may be produced
                        without the aid of caraway seed, but you cannot gather nice, fresh train
                        figs of thistles or expect much of a seedsman whose plants make no effort
                        whatever to resemble their pictures.
                    Hoping that you will examine into this matter, and that the club will always
                        hereafter look carefully in this column for its farm information, I remain,
                        in a sitting posture, yours truly.
                    
                        BILL NYE.
                    
                    
                    
                        "YOU IN THE HAMMOCK; AND I, NEAR BY,"
                    
                
                
                
                    In the Afternoon.
                    
                        You in the hammock; and I, near by,
                        Was trying to read, and to swing you, too;
                        And the green of the sward was so kind to the eye,
                        And the shade of the maples so cool and blue,
                        That often I looked from the book to you
                        To say as much, with a sigh.
                    
                    
                        You in the hammock. The book we'd brought
                        From the parlor—to read in the open air,—
                        Something of love and of Launcelot
                        And Guinevere, I believe, was there—
                        But the afternoon, it was far more fair
                        Than the poem was, I thought.
                    
                    
                        You in the hammock; and on and on
                        I droned and droned through the rythmic stuff—
                        But with always a half of my vision gone
                        Over the top of the page—enough
                        To caressingly gaze at you, swathed in the fluff
                        Of your hair and your odorous lawn.
                    
                    
                        You in the hammock—And that was a year—
                        Fully a year ago, I guess!—
                        And what do we care for their Guinevere
                        And her Launcelot and their lordliness!—
                        You in the hammock still, and—Yes—
                        Kiss me again, my dear!
                    
                
                
                
                    The Rise and Fall of William Johnson.
                    
                        (A CHRISTMAS STORY.)
                    
                    
                    IT HAS always been one of my pet notions that on Christmas day we ought not
                        to remember those only who may be related to us and those who are
                        prosperous, but, that we should, while remembering them, forget not the
                        unfortunate who are dead to all the world but themselves and who suffer in
                        prison walls, not alone for their own crimes, perhaps, but for the crimes of
                        their parents and their grandparents before them. Few of the prosperous and
                        happy pause today to think of the convict whose days are all alike and whose
                        nights are filled with bitterness.
                    At the risk of being dull and prosy, I am going to tell a story that is not
                        especially humorous or pathetic, but merely 
                        true. Every Christmas I try to tell a true story. I do not want the day to
                        go by without some sort of recognition by which to distinguish it from other
                        days, and so I celebrate it in that way.
                    This is the story of William Johnson, a Swede, who went to Wyoming Territory,
                        perhaps fifteen years ago, to seek his fortune among strangers, and who,
                        without even a knowledge of the English language, began in his patient way
                        to work at whatever his hands found to do. He was a plain, long-legged man,
                        with downcast eyes and nose.
                    There was some surprise expressed all around when he was charged one day by
                        Jake Feinn with feloniously taking, stealing, carrying away and driving away
                        one team of horses, the property of the affiant, and of the value of $200,
                        contrary to the statutes in such case made and provided, and against the
                        peace and dignity of the Territory of Wyoming.
                    Everybody laughed at the idea of Jake Feinn owning a team worth $200, and, as
                        he was also a chronic litigator, it was generally conceded that Johnson
                        would be discharged. But his misfortunes seemed to swoop down on him from
                        the very first moment. At the preliminary examination Johnson acted like a
                        man who was dazed. He couldn't talk or understand English very
                        well. He failed to get a lawyer. He pleaded guilty, not knowning what it
                        meant, and was permitted to take it back. He had no witnesses, and the Court
                        was in something of a hurry as it had to prepare a speech that afternoon to
                        be delivered in the evening on the "Beauties of Eternal
                        Justice," and so it was adjudged that in default of $500 bail the
                        said William Johnson be committed to the County Jail of Albany County in
                        said Territory, there to await the action of the Grand Jury for the
                        succeeding term of the District Court for the Second Judicial District of
                        Wyoming.
                    Meekly and silently William Johnson left the warm and stimulating Indian
                        summer air of October to enter the dark  and
                        undesirable den of a felon. Patiently he accepted the heart-breaking destiny
                        which seemed really to belong to someone else. He put in his days studying
                        an English primer all the forenoon and doing housework around the jail
                        kitchen in the afternoon.
                    He was a very tall man and a very awkward man, with large, intellectual
                        joints and a sad face. When he got so that he could read a little I went in
                        to hear him one day.  He stood up like an
                        exaggerated schoolboy, and while he bored holes in the page of his primer
                        with a long and corneous forefinger he read that little poem: 
                            
                                Pray tell me, bird, what you can see
                                Up in the top of that tall tree?
                                Have you no fear that some rude boy
                                May come and mar your peace and joy?
                            
                            
                                Oh, no, my child, I fear no harm,
                                While with my song I thus can charm.
                                My mate is here, my youngsters, too,
                                And here we sit and sing to you.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    Finally, the regular term of the District Court opened. Men who had come for
                        a long distance to vaunt their ignorance and other qualifications as jurors
                        could be seen on the streets. Here and there you could see the familiar
                        faces of those who had served as jurors for years and yet had never lost a
                        case. Wealthy delinquents began to sub-pœna large detachments of
                        witnesses at the expense of the county, and the poor petty larceny people in
                        the jail began to wonder why their witnesses didn't show up. Slowly
                        the wheels of Justice began to revolve. Ever and anon could be heard the
                        strident notes which came from the room where the counsel for the defense
                        was filing his objections, while now and then the ear was startled with the
                        low quash of the indictment.
                    Finally the case of the Territory against William Johnson was called.
                    "Mr. Johnson," asked Judge Blair, "have you
                        counsel?"
                    The defendant said he had not.
                    "Are you able to employ counsel?"
                    He evidently wasn't able to employ counsel twenty minutes, even if
                        it could be had at a dollar a day.
                    "Do you wish to have the Court appoint counsel for
                        you?"
                    He saw no other way, so he said yes.
                    Where criminals are too poor to employ counsel the Court selects a poor but
                        honest young lawyer, who practices on the defendant. I was appointed that
                        way myself once to defend a man who swears he will kill me as soon as he
                        gets out of the penitentiary.
                    Wm. Johnson was peculiarly unfortunate in the election of his counsel. The
                        man who was appointed to defend him was a very much overestimated young man
                        who started the movement himself. He was courageous, however, and perfectly
                        willing to wade in where angels would naturally hang back. His brain would
                        not have soiled the finest  fabric, but his
                        egotism had a biceps muscle on it like a loaf of Vienna bread. He was the
                        kind of young man who loves to go and see the drama and explain it along
                        about five minutes in advance of the company in a loud, trenchant voice.
                    He defended William Johnson. Thus in the prime of life, hardly understanding
                        a word of the trial, stunned, helpless, alone, the latter began upon his
                        term of five years in the penitentiary. His patient, gentle face impressed
                        me as it did others, and his very helplessness thus became his greatest
                        help.
                    It is not egotism which prompts me to tell here of what followed. It was but
                        natural that I should go to Judge Blair, who, besides being the most popular
                        Judge in the West, had, as I knew, a kind heart. He agreed with me that
                        Johnson's side of the case had not been properly presented and that
                        the jury had grave doubts about the horses having been worth enough to
                        constitute a felony even if Johnson had unlawfully taken them. Other lawyers
                        said that at the worst it was a civil offense, or trover, or trespass, or
                        wilful negligence, or embezzlement, or conversion, but that the remedy was
                        by civil process. One lawyer said it was an outrage, and Charlie Bramel said
                        that if Johnson would put up $50 he would agree to jerk him out of the jug
                        on a writ of habeas corpus before dinner.
                    Seeing how the sentiment ran, I resolved to start a petition for
                        Johnson's pardon. I got the signatures of the Court, the court
                        officers, the jury and the leading men of business in the county. Just as I
                        was about to take it to Gov. Thayer, there was an incident at the
                        penitentiary. Wm. Johnson had won the hearts of the Warden and the guards to
                        that extent that he was sent out one afternoon to assist one of the guards
                        in overseeing the labor of a squad working in a stone quarry near by. Taking
                             advantage of a time when the guard was a
                        few hundred feet away, the other convicts knocked Johnson down and tried to
                        get away. He got up, however, and interested them till the guard got to him
                        and the escape was prevented. Johnson waited till all was secure again, and
                        then fainted from loss of blood occasioned by a scalp wound over which he
                        had a long fight afterward with erysipelas.
                    
                    This was all lucky for me, and when I presented the petition to the Governor
                        I had a strong case, made more so by the heroic action of a man who had been
                        unjustly condemned.
                    There is but little more to tell. The Governor intimated that he would take
                        favorable action upon the petition, but he wanted time. My great anxiety, as
                        I told him, was to get the pardon in time so that Johnson could spend his
                             Christmas in freedom. I had seen him
                        frequently, and he was pale and thin to emaciation. He could not live long
                        if he remained where he was. I spoke earnestly of his good character since
                        his incarceration, and the Governor promised prompt action. But he was
                        called away in December and I feared that he might, in the rush and pressure
                        of other business, forget the case of Johnson till after the holidays. So I
                        telegraphed him and made his life a burden to him till the afternoon of the
                        24th, when the 4:50 train brought the pardon. In my poor, weak way I have
                        been in the habit for some years of making Christmas presents, but nothing
                        that could be bought with money ever made me a happier donor or donee than
                        the simple act of giving to William Johnson four years of freedom which he
                        did not look for.
                    I went away to spend my own Christmas, but not till I had given Johnson a few
                        dollars to help him get another start, and had made him promise to write me
                        how he got along. And so that to me was a memorable and a joyous Christmas,
                        for I had made myself happy by making others happy.
                    BILL NYE.
                    P. S.—Perhaps I ought not to close this account so abruptly as I
                        have done, for the reader will naturally ask whether Johnson ever wrote me,
                        as he said he would. I only received one letter from him, and that I found
                        when I got back, a few days after Christmas. It was quite characteristic,
                        and read as follows:
                    "Laramy the twenty-fitt dec.
                    FRENT NIE.
                    "When you get this Letter i will Be in A nuther tearritory whare the
                        weekid seize from trubbling & the weery air at Reast excoose my Poor
                        writing i refer above to the tearritory of Utaw where i will begin Life A
                        new & all will be fergott.
                    "I hop god wil Reward you In Caise i Shood not Be Abel to Do so.
                    
                    "You have Bin a good frent off me and so I am shure you will enjoy
                        to heer of my success i hope the slooth hounds of Justiss will not try to
                        folly me for it will be worse than Useles as i hav a damsite better team
                        than i had Before.
                    "It is the Sheariff's team wich i have got & his
                        name is denis, tel the Governer to Parden me if i have seeamed Rude i shall
                        go to some new Plais whare i will not be Looked upon with Suchpishion
                        wishing you a mary Crissmus hapy new year and April Fool i will Close from
                        your tru Frent
                    
                        "BIL JOHNSON."
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    From Delphi to Camden.
                    
                    
                        I.
                        From Delphi to Camden—little Hoosier towns,—
                        But here were classic meadows, blooming dales and downs
                        And here were grassy pastures, dewy as the leas
                        Trampled over by the trains of royal pageantries.
                        And here the winding highway loitered through the shade
                        Of the hazel-covert, where, in ambuscade,
                        Loomed the larch and linden, and the green-wood tree
                        Under which bold Robin Hood loud hallooed to me!
                        
                        Here the stir and riot of the busy day,
                        Dwindled to the quiet of the breath of May;
                        Gurgling brooks, and ridges lily-marged, and spanned
                        By the rustic bridges found in Wonderland!
                    
                    
                        II.
                        From Delphi to Camden—from Camden back
                            again!—
                        And now the night was on us, and the lightning and the rain;
                        And still the way was wondrous with the flash of hill and
                            plain,—
                        The stars like printed asterisks—the moon a murky
                            stain!
                        And I thought of tragic idyl, and of flight and hot pursuit,
                        And the jingle of the bridle, and cuirass, and spur on boot,
                        As our horses' hooves struck showers from the flinty
                            bowlders set
                        In freshet ways with writhing reed and drowning violet.
                        And we passed beleaguered castles, with their battlements
                            a-frown;
                        Where a tree fell in the forest was a turret toppled down;
                        While my master and commander—the brave knight I galloped
                            with
                        On this reckless road to ruin, or to fame, was—Dr.
                            Smith!
                    
                
                
                
                    The Grammatical Boy
                    
                    OMETIMES a sad, homesick feeling comes over me, when I compare the prevailing
                        style of anecdote and school literature with the old McGuffey brand, so well
                        known thirty years ago. Today our juvenile literature, it seems to me, is so
                        transparent, so easy to understand that I am not surprised to learn that the
                        rising generation shows signs of lawlessness.
                    Boys today do not use the respectful language and large, luxuriant words that
                        they did when Mr. McGuffey used to stand around and report their
                        conversations for his justly celebrated school reader. It is disagreeable to
                        think of, but it is none the less true, and for one I think we should face
                        the facts.
                    I ask the careful student of school literature to compare the following
                        selection, which I have written myself with great care, and arranged with
                        special reference to the matter of choice and difficult words, with the
                        flippant and common-place terms used in the average school book of
                        today.
                    One day as George Pillgarlic was going to his tasks, and while passing
                        through the wood, he spied a tall man approaching in an opposite direction
                        along the highway.
                    "Ah!" though George, in a low, mellow tone of voice,
                        "whom have we here?"
                    
                    "Good morning, my fine fellow," exclaimed the stranger,
                        pleasantly. "Do you reside in this locality?"
                    "Indeed I do," retorted George, cheerily, doffing his cap.
                        "In yonder cottage, near the glen, my widowed mother and her
                        thirteen children dwell with me."
                    "And is your father dead?" exclaimed the man, with a rising
                        inflection.
                    "Extremely so," murmured the lad, "and, oh, sir,
                        that is why my poor mother is a widow."
                    "And how did your papa die?" asked the man, as he
                        thoughtfully stood on the other foot awhile.
                    "Alas! sir," said George, as a large hot tear stole down
                        his pale cheek, and fell with a loud report on the warty surface of his bare
                        foot, "he was lost at sea in a bitter gale. The good ship foundered
                        two years ago last Christmastide, and father was foundered at the same time.
                        No one knew of the loss of the ship and that the crew was drowned until the
                        next spring, and it was then too late."
                    "And what is your age, my fine fellow?" quoth the
                        stranger.
                    "If I live till next October," said the boy, in a
                        declamatory tone of voice suitable for a Second Reader, "I will be
                        seven years of age."
                    "And who provides for your mother and her large family of
                        children?" queried the man.
                    "Indeed I do, sir," replied George, in a shrill tone.
                        "I toil, oh, so hard, sir, for we are very, very poor, and since my
                        elder sister, Ann, was married and brought her husband home to live with us,
                        I have to toil more assiduously than heretofore."
                    "And by what means do you obtain a livelihood?" exclaimed
                        the man, in slowly measured and grammatical words.
                    "By digging wells, kind sir," replied George, picking up a
                        tired ant as he spoke and stroking it on the back. "I have a good
                        education, and so I am able to dig wells as well as a  man. I do this day-times and take in washing at night. In this
                        way I am enabled barely to maintain our family in a precarious manner; but,
                        oh, sir, should my other sisters marry, I fear that some of my
                        brothers-in-law would have to suffer."
                    "And do you not fear the deadly fire-damp?" asked the
                        stranger in an earnest tone.
                    "Not by a damp sight," answered George, with a low gurgling
                        laugh, for he was a great wag.
                    "You are indeed a brave lad," exclaimed the stranger, as he
                        repressed a smile. "And do you not at times become very weary and
                        wish for other ways of passing your time?"
                    "Indeed I do, sir," said the lad. "I would fain
                        run and romp and be gay like other boys, but I must engage in constant
                        manual exercise, or we will have no bread to eat, and I have not seen a pie
                        since papa perished in the moist and moaning sea."
                    "And what if I were to tell you that your papa did not perish at
                        sea, but was saved from a humid grave?" asked the stranger in
                        pleasing tones.
                    "Ah, sir," exclaimed George, in a genteel manner, again
                        doffing his cap, "I am too polite to tell you what I would say, and
                        beside, sir, you are much larger than I am."
                    "But, my brave lad," said the man in low musical tones,
                        "do you not know me, Georgie? Oh, George!"
                    "I must say," replied George, "that you have the
                        advantage of me. Whilst I may have met you before, I cannot at this moment
                        place you, sir."
                    "My son! oh my son!" murmured the man, at the same time
                        taking a large strawberry mark out of his valise and showing it to the lad.
                        "Do you not recognize your parent on your father's side?
                        When our good ship went to the bottom, all perished save me. I swam several
                        miles through the billows, and at last, utterly exhausted, gave up all hope
                        of life. Suddenly I stepped on something hard. It was the United States.
                    
                    "And now, my brave boy," exclaimed the man with great glee,
                        "see what I have brought for you." It was but the work of
                        a moment to unclasp from a shawl-strap which he held in his hand and present
                        to George's astonished gaze a large 40-cent water-melon, which
                        until now had been concealed by the shawl-strap.
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        HIS CRAZY BONE.
                    
                    
                    His Crazy-Bone.
                    
                        The man that struck his crazy-bone,
                        All suddenly jerked up one foot
                        And hopped three vivid hops, and put
                        His elbow straight before him—then
                        Flashed white as pallid Parian stone,
                        And clinched his eyes, and hopped again.
                    
                    
                        He spake no word—he made no moan—
                        He muttered no invective—but
                        Just gripped his eyelids tighter shut,
                        And as the the world whizzed past him then,
                        He only knew his crazy-bone
                        Was stricken—so—he hopped again.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Chemist of the Carolinas.
                    ASHEVILLE, N. C. Dec. 13.—Last week I went out
                        into the mountains for the purpose of securing a holly tree with red berries
                        on it for Yuletide. I had noticed in all my pictures of Christmas
                        festivities in England that the holly, with cranberries on it, constituted
                        the background of Yule-tide. A Yuletide in England without a holly bough and
                        a little mistletoe in it wouldn't be worth half price. Here these
                        vegetables grow in great profusion, owing to the equable climate, and so the
                        holly tree is within the reach of all.
                    I resolved to secure one personally, so I sped away into the mountains where,
                        in less than the time it takes to tell it, I had succeeded in finding a
                        holly tree and losing myself. It is a very solemn sensation to feel that you
                        are lost, and that before you can be found something is liable to happen to
                        the universe.
                    I wandered aimlessly about for half an hour, hoping that I would be missed in
                        society and some one sent in search of me. I was just about to give up in
                        despair and sink down on a bed of moss with the idea of shuffling off six or
                        seven feet of mortal coil when, a few rods away, I saw a blue smoke issuing
                        from the side of the mountain and rising toward the sky. I went rapidly
                        towards it and found it to be a plain dugout with a dirt floor. I entered
                        and cast myself upon a rude nail keg, allowing my feet to remain suspended
                        at the lower end of my legs, an attitude which I frequently affect when
                        fatigued.
                    The place was not occupied at the time I entered, though there was a fire and
                        things looked as though the  owner had not been
                        long absent. It seemed to be a kind of laboratory, for I could see here and
                        there the earmarks of the chemist. I feared at first that it was a bomb
                        factory,  but as I could not see any of these
                        implements in a perfected state I decided that it was safe and waited for
                        the owner to arrive.
                    
                    After a time I heard a low guttural footstep approaching up the hill. I went
                        to the door and exclaimed to the proprietor as he came, "Merry
                        Christmas, Colonel."
                    "Merry Christmas be d—d!" said he in the same
                        bantering tone. "What in three dashes, two hyphens and an
                        asthonisher do you want here, you double-dashed and double-blanketed blank
                        to dash and return!!"
                    The wording here is my own, but it gives an idea of the way the conversation
                        was drifting. You can see by his manner that literary people are not alone
                        in being surly, irritable and unreasonable.
                    So I humored him and spoke kindly to him and smoothed down his ruffled
                        plumage with my gay badinage, for he wore a shawl and you can never tell
                        whether a man wearing a shawl is armed or not. I give herewith a view of
                        this chemist as he appeared on the morning I met him.
                    It will be noticed that he was a man about medium height with clear-cut
                        features and hair and retreating brisket. His hair was dark and hung in
                        great waves which seemed to have caught the sunlight and retained it
                        together with a great many other atmospheric phenomena. He wore a straw hat,
                        such as I once saw Horace Greeley catch grass-hoppers in, on the banks of
                        the Kinnickinnick, just before he caught a small trout.
                    I spent some time with him watching him as he made his various experiments.
                        Finally, he showed me a new beverage that he had been engaged in perfecting.
                        It was inclosed in a dark brown stone receptacle and was held in place by a
                        common corn-cob stopper. I took some of it in order to show that I confided
                        in him. I do not remember anything else distinctly. The fumes of this drink
                        went at once to my brain, where it had what might be termed a complete
                        walkover.
                    I now have no hesitation in saying that the fluid must have been alcoholic in
                        its nature, for when I regained my 
                        consciousness I was extremely elsewhere. I found myself on a road which
                        seemed to lead in two opposite directions and my mind was very much
                        confused.
                    I hardly know how I got home, but I finally did get there, accompanied by a
                        strong leaning towards Prohibition. A few days ago I received the following
                        letter: 
                            
                                
                                    Sir: I at first thought when I saw you at my laboratory the
                                        other day that you was a low, inquisitive cuss and so I
                                        spoke to you in harsh tones and reproached you and upbraided
                                        you by calling you everything I could lay my tongue to, but
                                        since then I have concluded that you didn't know
                                        any better.
                                    You said to me that you found my place by seeing the smoke
                                        coming out of the chimbley; that has given me an i lea that
                                        you might know something about what's called a
                                        smoke consumer of which I have heard. I am doing a fair
                                        business, but I am a good deal pestered, as you might say,
                                        by people who come in on me when I do not want to mingle in
                                        society. A man in the chemist business cannot succeed if he
                                        is all the time interrupted by Tom, Dick and Harry coming in
                                        on him when he is in the middle of an experiment.
                                    I am engaged in making a remedy for which there is a great
                                        demand, but its manufacture is regarded with suspicion by
                                        United States officials who want to be considered zealous.
                                        Rather than be drawn into any difficulty with these people,
                                        I have always courted retirement and avoided the busy haunts
                                        of men. Still some strolling idiot or other will
                                        occasionally see the smoke from my little home and drop in
                                        on me.
                                    Could you find out about this smoke consumer and see what the
                                        price would be and let me know as soon as possible?
                                    If you could do so I can be of great service to you. Leave
                                        the letter under the big stone where you found yourself the
                                        other day when you came out of your trance. I call it a
                                        trance because this letter might fall into the hands of your
                                        family. If you will find out about this smoke consumer and
                                        leave the information where I have told you you will find on
                                        the following day a large jug of mountain dew in the same
                                        place that will make your hair grow and give a roseate hue
                                        to your otherwise gloomy life.
                                    Do not try to come here again. It might compromise me. A man
                                        in your position may not have anything to risk, but with me
                                        it is different. My unsullied reputation is all I have to
                                        bequeath to my children. If you come often there will not be
                                        enough of it left to go around, as I have a large
                                        family.
                                    If you hear of anybody that wants to trade a good
                                        double-barrel shotgun for a small portable worm and retort
                                        that is too small for my business, I can give him a good
                                        trade on it if he will let you know. This is a good machine
                                        for experimental purposes, and being no larger than a
                                        Babcock fire-extinguisher it can be readily conveyed to a
                                        place of safety at a very rapid rate.
                                    You might say to your friends that we shall try in the future
                                        as we have in the past to keep up the standard of our goods,
                                        so as to merit a continued patronage.
                                    
                                    Citizens of the United States, or those who have declared
                                        their intention to become such, will always be welcome at
                                        our works, provided they are not office-holders in any
                                        capacity. We have no use for those who are in any way
                                        connected with the public teat.
                                    Dictated letter.
                                    
                                        I. B. MOONSHINE.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    I hope that any one will feel perfectly free to address me in relation to
                        anything referred to in the above letter. All communications containing
                        remittances will be regarded as strictly confidential.
                
                
                
                    
                    
                        The Crankadox leaned o'er the edge of the moon
                        And wistfully gazed on the sea
                        Where the Gryxabodill madly whistled a tune
                        To the air of "Ti-fol-de-ding-dee."
                        The quavering shriek of the fliupthecreek
                        Was fitfully wafted afar
                        To the queen of the Wunks as she powdered her cheek
                        With the pulverized rays of a star.
                    
                    
                        The Gool closed his ear on the voice of the Grig,
                        And his heart it grew heavy as lead
                        As he marked the Baldekin adjusting his wig
                        On the opposite side of his head;
                        And the air it grew chill as the Gryxabodill
                        Raised his dank, dripping fins to the skies,
                        And plead with the Plunk for the use of her bill
                        To pick the tears out of his eyes.
                    
                    
                        The ghost of the Zhack flitted by in a trance;
                        And the Squidjum hid under a tub
                        With a rub-a-dub-dub-a-dub dub!
                        And the Crankadox cried as he laid down and died,
                        "My fate there is none to bewail!"
                        While the queen of the Wunks drifted over the tide
                        With a long piece of crape to her tail.
                    
                
                
                
                    Prying Open the Future.
                    "Ring the bell and the door will open," is the remark made
                        by a small label over a bell-handle in Third avenue, near Eighteenth street,
                        where Mme. La Foy reads the past, present and future at so much per read.
                        Love, marriage, divorce, illness, speculation and sickness are there handled
                        with the utmost impunity by "Mme. La Foy, the famous  scientific astrologist," who has monkeyed
                        with the planets for twenty years, and if she wanted any information has
                        "read it in the stars."
                    I rang the bell the other day to see if the door would open. It did so after
                        considerable delay, and a pimply boy in knee pants showed me upstairs into
                        the waiting-room. After a while I was removed to the consultation-room,
                        where  Mme. La Foy, seated behind a small
                        oil-cloth covered table, rakes up old personalities and pries into the
                        future at cut rates.
                    Skirmishing about among the planets for twenty years involves a great deal of
                        fatigue and exposure, to say nothing of the night work, and so Mme. La Foy
                        has the air of one who has put in a very busy life. She is as familiar with
                        planets though as you or I might be with our own family, and calls them by
                        their first names. She would know Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Adonis or any of
                        the other fixed stars the darkest night that ever blew.
                    "Mme. La Foy De Graw," said I, bowing with the easy grace
                        of a gentleman of the old school, "would you mind peering into the
                        future for me about a half dollar's worth, not necessarily for
                        publication, et cetera."
                    "Certainly not. What would you like to know?"
                    "Why, I want to know all I can for the money," I said in a
                        bantering tone. "Of course I do not wish to know what I already
                        know. It is what I do not now know that I desire to know. Tell me what I do
                        not know, Madame. I will detain you but a moment."
                    She gave me back my large, round half dollar and told me that she was already
                        weary. She asked me to excuse her. She was willing to unveil the future to
                        me in her poor, weak way, but she could not guarantee to let a large flood
                        of light into the darkened basement of a benighted mind for half a
                        dollar.
                    "You can tell me what year and on what day of what month you were
                        born," said Mme. La Foy, "and I will outline your life to
                        you. I generally require a lock of the hair, but in your case we will
                        dispense with it."
                    I told her when I was born and the circumstances as well as I could recall
                        them.
                    "This brings you under Venus, Mercury and Mars. These three planets
                        were in conjunction at the time of your  birth.
                        You were born when the sign was wrong and you have had more or less trouble
                        ever since. Had you been born when the sign was in the head or the heart,
                        instead of the feet, you would not have spread out over the ground so
                        much.
                    "Your health is very good, as is the health of those generally who
                        are born under the same auspices that you were. People who are born under
                        the reign of the crab are apt to be cancerous. You, however, have great lung
                        power and wonderful gastric possibilities. Yet, at times, you would be
                        easily upset. A strong cyclone that would unroof a court-house or tip over a
                        through train would also upset you, in spite of your broad, firm feet if the
                        wind got behind one of your ears.
                    "You will be married early and you will be very happy, though your
                        wife will not enjoy herself very much. Your wife will be much happier during
                        her second marriage.
                    "You will prosper better in business matters without forming any
                        partnerships. Do not go into partnership with a small, dark man who has
                        neuralgia and a fine yacht. He has abundant means, but he will go through
                        you like an electric shock.
                    "Tuesdays and Saturdays will be your most fortunate days on which to
                        borrow money of men with light hair. Mondays and Thursdays will be your best
                        days for approaching dark men.
                    "Look out for a low-sot man accompanied by an office cat, both of
                        whom are engaged in the newspaper business. He is crafty and bald-headed on
                        his father's side. He prints the only paper that contains the full
                        text of his speeches at testimonials and dinners given to other people. Do
                        not loan him money on any account.
                    "You would succeed well as a musician or an inventor, but you would
                        not do well as a poet. You have all the keen 
                        sensibility and strong passion of a poet, but you haven't the hair.
                        Do not try poesy.
                    "In the future I see you very prosperous. You are on the lecture
                        platform speaking. Large crowds of people are jostling each other at the
                        box-office and trying to get their money back.
                    "Then I see you riding behind a flexible horse that must have cost a
                        large sum of money. You are smoking a cigar that has never been in use
                        before. Then Venus bisects the orbit of Mars and I see you going home with
                        your head tied up in the lap robe, you and your spirited horse in the same
                        ambulance."
                    "But do you see anything for me in the future, Mme. La
                        Foy?" I asked, taking my feet off the table, the better to watch
                        her features; "anything that would seem to indicate political
                        preferment, a reward for past services to my country, as it
                        were?"
                    "No, not clearly. But wait a moment. Your horoscope begins to get a
                        little more intelligent. I see you at the door of the Senate Chamber. You
                        are counting over your money and looking sadly at a schedule of prices. Then
                        you turn sorrowfully away and decide to buy a seat in the House instead.
                        Many years after I see you in the Senate. You are there day after day
                        attending to your duties. You are there early, before any one else, and I
                        see you pacing back and forth, up and down the aisles, sweeping out the
                        Senate Chamber and dusting off the seats and rejuvenating the
                        cuspidors."
                    "Does this horoscope which you are using this season give you any
                        idea as to whether money matters will be scarce with me next week or
                        otherwise, and if so what I had better do about it?"
                    "Towards the last of the week you will experience considerable
                        monetary prostration, but just as you have become despondent, at the very
                        tail end of the week, the horizon  will clear
                        up and a slight, dark gentleman, with wide trousers, who is a total stranger
                        to you, will loan you quite a sum of money, with the understanding that it
                        is to be repaid on Monday."
                    "Then you would not advise me to go to Coney Island until the week
                        after next?"
                    "Certainly not."
                    "Would it be etiquette in dancing a quadrille to swing a young
                        person of the opposite sex twice round at a select party when you are but
                        slightly acquainted, but feel quite confident that her partner is
                        unarmed?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Does your horoscope tell a person what to do with raspberry jelly
                        that will not jell?"
                    "No, not at the present prices."
                    "So you predict an early marriage, with threatening weather and
                        strong prevailing easterly winds along the Gulf States?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "And is there no way that this early marriage may be
                        evaded?"
                    "No, not unless you put it off till later in life."
                    "Thank you," I said, rising and looking out the window over
                        a broad sweep of undulating alley and wind-swept roofing, "and now,
                        how much are you out on this?"
                    "Sir!"
                    "What's the damage?"
                    "Oh, one dollar."
                    "But don't you advertise to read the past, present and
                        future for fifty cents?"
                    "Well, that is where a person has had other information before in
                        his life and has some knowledge to begin with; but where I fill up a vacant
                        mind entirely and store it with facts of all kinds and stock it up so that
                        it can do business  for itself, I charge a
                        dollar. I cannot thoroughly refit and refurnish a mental tenement from the
                        ground up for fifty cents."
                    I do not think we have as good "Astrologists" now as we
                        used to have. Astrologists cannot crawl under the tent and pry into the
                        future as they could three or four thousand years ago.
                
                
                
                    Mr. Silberberg.
                    
                    
                        I like me yet dot leedle chile
                        Vich climb my lap up in today,
                        Unt took my cheap cigair avay,
                        Unt laugh and kiss me purty-whvile,—
                        Possescially I like dose mout'
                        Vich taste his moder's like–unt so,
                        Off my cigair it gone glean out—Yust let it go!
                    
                    
                        Vat I caire den for anyding?
                        Der paper schlip out fon my hand,
                        
                        And all my odvairtizement stand,
                        Mitout new changements boddering;
                        I only dink—I have me dis
                        Von leedle boy to pet unt love
                        Unt play me vit, unt hug unt kiss—
                        Unt dot's enough!
                    
                    
                        Der plans unt pairposes I vear
                        Out in der vorld all fades avay;
                        Unt vit der beeznid of der day
                        I got me den no time to spare;
                        Der caires of trade vas caires no more—
                        Dem cash accounds dey dodge me by,
                        Unt vit my chile I roll der floor,
                        Unt laugh unt gry!
                    
                    
                        Ah! frient! dem childens is der ones
                        Dot got some happy times—you bet!—
                        Dot's vy ven I been growed up yet
                        I vish I vould been leedle vonce!
                        Unt ven dot leetle roozter tries
                        Dem baby-tricks I used to do,
                        My mout it vater, unt my eyes
                        Dey vater too!
                    
                    
                        Unt all der summertime unt spring
                        Of childhood it come back to me,
                        So dot it vas a dream I see
                        Ven I yust look at anyding,
                        Unt ven dot leedle boy run by,
                        I dink "dot's me," fon hour to
                            hour,
                        Schtill chasing yet dose butterfly
                        Fon flower to flower!
                    
                    
                        Oxpose I vas lots money vairt,
                        Mit blenty schtone-front schtore to rent,
                        Unt mor'gages at twelf per-cent,
                        
                        Unt diamonds in my ruffled shairt,—
                        I make a'signment of all dot,
                        Unt tairn it over mit a schmile,
                        Obber you please—but don'd forgot,
                        I keep dot chile!
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    Spirits at Home.
                    
                        (THE FAMILY.)
                        There was Father, and Mother, and Emmy, and Jane,
                        And Lou, and Ellen, and John and me—
                        And father was killed in the war, and Lou
                        She died of consumption, and John did too,
                        And Emmy she went with the pleurisy.
                    
                    
                        (THE SPIRITS.)
                        Father believed in 'em all his life —
                        But Mother, at first, she'd shake her head —
                        Till after the battle of Champion Hill,
                        When many a flag in the winder-sill
                        Had crape mixed in with the white and red!
                    
                    
                        I used to doubt 'em myself till then —
                        But me and Mother was satisfied
                        When Ellen she set, and Father came
                        And rapped "God bless you!" and
                            Mother's name,
                        And "The flag's up here!" And we just
                            all cried!
                    
                    
                        Used to come often after that,
                        And talk to us—just as he used to do,
                        Pleasantest kind! And once, for John,
                        He said he was "lonesome but wouldn't let on
                            —
                        Fear mother would worry, and Emmy and Lou."
                    
                    
                        But Lou was the bravest girl on earth —
                        For all she never was hale and strong
                        She'd have her fun! With her voice clean lost
                        She'd laugh and joke us that when she crossed
                        To father, we'd all come
                            taggin' along!
                    
                    
                    
                        Died — just that way! And the raps was thick
                        
                            That night, as they often since occur,
                        Extry loud. And when Lou got back
                        She said it was Father and her — and
                            "whack!"
                        She tuck the table — and we knowed her!
                        
                    
                    
                        John and Emmy, in five years more,
                        Both had went. — And it seemed like fate! —
                        For the old home it burnt down, — but Jane
                        And me and Ellen we built again
                        The new house, here, on the old estate.
                    
                    
                        And a happier family I don't know
                        Of anywheres — unless its them
                            —
                        Father, with all his love for Lou,
                        And her there with him, and healthy, too,
                        And laughin' with John and little Em.
                    
                    
                        And, first we moved in the new house here,
                        They all dropped in for a long pow-wow.
                        "We like your buildin', of course," Lou
                            said,—
                        "But wouldn't swop with you to save your head
                            —
                        For we live in the ghost of the old house, now!"
                    
                
                
                
                    Healthy but out of the Race.
                    
                    In an interview which I have just had with myself, I have positively stated,
                        and now repeat, that at neither the St. Louis nor Chicago Convention will my
                        name be presented as a candidate.
                    But my health is bully.
                    We are upon the threshold of a most bitter and acrimonious fight. Great
                        wisdom and fore-sight are needed at this hour, and the true patriot will
                        forget himself and his own interests in his great yearning for the good of
                        his common country and the success of his party. What we need at this time
                        is a leader whose name will not be presented at the convention but whose
                        health is good.
                    No one has a fuller or better conception of the great duties of the hour than
                        I. How clearly to my mind are the duties of the American citizen outlined
                        today! I have never seen with clearer, keener vision the great needs of  my country, and my pores have never been more
                        open. Four years ago I was in some doubt relative to certain important
                        questions which now are clearly and satisfactorily settled in my mind. I
                        hesitated then where now I am fully established, and my tongue was coated in
                        the morning when I arose, whereas now I bound lightly from bed, kick out a
                        window, climb to the roof by means of the fire-escape and there rehearse
                        speeches which I will make this fall in case it should be discovered at
                        either of the conventions that my name alone can heal the rupture in the
                        party and prevent its works from falling out.
                    I think my voice is better also than it was either four, eight, twelve or
                        sixteen years ago, and it does not tire me so much to think of things to say
                        from the tail-gate of a train as it did when I first began to refrain from
                        presenting my name to conventions.
                    According to my notion, our candidate should be a plain man, a magnetic but
                        hairless patriot, who should be suddenly thought of by a majority of the
                        convention and nominated by acclamation. He should not be a hide-bound
                        politician, but on the contrary he should be greatly startled, while down
                        cellar sprouting potatoes, to learn that he has been nominated.
                        That's the kind of man who always surprises everybody with his
                        sagacity when an emergency arises.
                    In going down my cellar stairs the committee will do well to avoid stepping
                        on a large and venomous dog who sleeps on the top stair. Or I will tie him
                        in the barn if I can be informed when I am liable to be startled.
                    I have always thought that the neatest method of calling a man to public life
                        was the one adopted some years since in the case of Cincinnatus. He was one
                        day breaking a pair of nervous red steers in the north field. It was a hot
                        day in July, and he was trying to summer fallow a piece of ground where the
                        jimson weeds grew seven feet high.
                    
                    The plough would not scour, and the steers had turned the yoke twice on him.
                        Cincinnatus had hung his toga on a tamarac pole to strike a furrow by, and
                        hadn't succeeded in getting the plough in more than twice in going
                        across. Dressing as he did in the Roman costume of 458 B. C., the blackberry
                        vines had scratched his massive legs till they were a sight to behold. He
                        had scourged Old Bright and twisted the tail of Bolly till he was sick at
                        heart. All through the long afternoon, wearing a hot, rusty helmet with
                        rabbit-skin ear tabs he had toiled on, when suddenly a majority of the Roman
                        voters climbed over the fence and asked him to become dictator in place of
                        Spurius Melius.
                    
                    Putting on his toga and buckling an old hame strap around his loins he said:
                        "Gentlemen, if you will wait till I go to the house and get some
                        vaseline on my limbs I will do your dictating for you as low as you have
                        ever had it done." He then left his team standing in the furrow
                        while he served his country in an official capacity for a little over
                        twenty-nine years, after which he went back and resumed his farming.
                    
                    Though 2,300 years have since passed away and historians have been busy with
                        that epoch ever since, no one has yet discovered the methods by which
                        Cincinnatus organized and executed this, the most successful
                        "People's Movement" of which we are informed.
                    
                    The great trouble with the modern boom is that it is too precocious. It knows
                        more before it gets its clothes on than the nurse, the physician and its
                        parents. It then dies before the sap starts in the maple forests.
                    
                    My object in writing this letter is largely to tone down and keep in check
                        any popular movement in my behalf until the weather is more settled. A
                        season-cracked boom is a thing I despise.
                    I inclose my picture, however, which shows that I am so healthy that it keeps
                        me awake nights. I go about the house singing all the time and playing
                        pranks on my grandparents. My eye dances with ill-concealed merriment, and
                        my conversation is just as sparkling as it can be.
                    I believe that during this campaign we should lay aside politics so far as
                        possible and unite on an unknown, homely, but sparkling man. Let us lay
                        aside all race prejudices and old party feeling and elect a magnetic chump
                        who does not look so very well, but who feels first rate.
                    Towards the middle of June I shall go away to an obscure place where I cannot
                        be reached. My mail will be forwarded to me by a gentleman who knows how I
                        feel in relation to the wants and needs of the country.
                    To those who have prospered during the past twenty years let me say they owe
                        it to the perpetuation of the principles and institutions towards the
                        establishment and maintenance of which I have given the best energies of my
                        life. To those who have been unfortunate let me say frankly that they owe it
                        to themselves.
                    I have never had less malaria or despondency in my system than I have this
                        spring. My cheeks have a delicate bloom on them like a russet apple, and my
                        step is light and elastic. In the morning I arise from my couch and,
                        touching a concealed spring, it becomes an upright piano. I then bathe in a
                        low divan which contains a jointed tank. I then sing until interfered with
                        by property owners and tax-payers who reside near by. After a light
                        breakfast of calf's liver and custard pie I go into the
                        reception-room and wait for people to come and feel my pulse. In the
                        afternoon I lie down on a lounge for two or three hours, wondering in what
                        way I  can endear myself to the laboring man. I
                        then dine heartily at my club. In the evening I go to see the amateurs play
                        "Pygmalion and Galatea." As I remain till the play is
                        over, any one can see that I am a very robust man. After I get home I write
                        two or three thousand words in my diary. I then insert myself into the bosom
                        of my piano and sleep, having first removed my clothes and ironed my
                        trousers for future reference.
                    In closing, let me urge one and all to renewed effort. The prospects for a
                        speedy and unqualified victory at the polls were never more roseate. Let us
                        select a man upon whom we can all unite, a man who has no venom in him, a
                        man who has successfully defied and trampled on the infamous Interstate
                        Commerce act, a man who, though in the full flush and pride and bloom and
                        fluff of life's meridian, still disdains to present his name to the
                        convention.
                
                
                
                    Lines.
                    ON HEARING A COW BAWL, IN A DEEP FIT OF DEJECTION, ON THE
                        EVENING OF JULY 3, A. D. 18—
                    
                        Portentous sound! mysteriously vast
                        And awful in the grandeur of refrain
                        That lifts the listener's hair, as it swells past,
                        And pours in turbid currents down the lane.
                        The small boy at the woodpile, in a dream,
                        Slow trails the meat-rind o'er the listless saw;
                    
                    
                        The chickens roosting o'er him on the beam
                        Uplift their drowsy heads, with cootered awe.
                        
                        The "Gung-oigh" of the pump is strangely
                            stilled;
                        The smoke-house door bangs once emphatic'ly,
                        Then bangs no more, but leaves the silence filled
                        With one lorn plaint's despotic minstrelsy.
                    
                    
                        Yet I would join thy sorrowing madrigal,
                        Most melancholy cow, and sing of thee
                        Full-hearted through my tears, for, after all,
                        Tis very kine of you to sing for me.
                    
                
                
                
                    Me and Mary.
                    
                        All my feelin's, in the spring,
                        Gits so blame contrary
                        I can't think of anything
                        Only me and Mary!
                        "Me and Mary!" all the time,
                        "Me and Mary!" like a rhyme
                        Keeps a-dingin' on till I'm
                        Sick o' "Me and Mary!"
                    
                    
                        "Me and Mary! Ef us two
                        Only was together—
                        Playin' like we used to do
                        In the Aprile weather!"
                        All the night and all the day
                        I keep wishin' thataway
                        Till I'm gittin' old and gray
                        Jist on "Me and Mary!"
                    
                    
                        Muddy yit along the pike
                        Sense the winter's freezin'
                        And the orchard's backard-like
                        Only heerd one bluebird yit—
                        Nary robin er tomtit;
                        What's the how and why of it?
                        S'pect its "Me and Mary!"
                    
                    
                    
                        Me and Mary liked the birds—
                        That is, Mary sorto'
                        Liked them first, and afterwerds
                        W'y I thought I orto.
                        And them birds—ef Mary stood
                        Right here with me as she should—
                        They'd be singin', them birds would,
                        All fer me and Mary!
                    
                    
                        Birds er not, I'm hop'in' some
                        I can git to plowin':
                        Ef the sun'll only come,
                        And the Lord allowin',
                        And git down to work agin:
                        Not fer me and Mary!
                    
                    
                        Fer a man that loves, like me,
                        And's afeard to name it,
                        Till some other feller, he
                        Gits the girl—dad-shame-it!
                        Wet er dry, er clouds er sun—
                        Winter gone, er jist begun—
                        Out-door work fer me er none,
                        No more "Me and Mary!"
                    
                
                
                
                    Niagara Falls From the Nye Side.
                    ON BOARD THE BOUNDING TRAIN, LONGITUDE 600
                            MILES 'WEST OF A GIVEN POINT.
                    I visited Walton, N. Y., last week, a beautiful town in the flank of the
                        Catskills, at the head of the Delaware. It was there in that quiet and
                        picturesque valley that the great philanthropist and ameliorator, Jay Gould,
                        first attracted attention. He has a number of relatives there who note with
                        pleasure the fact that Mr. Gould is not frittering away his means during his
                        lifetime.
                    In the office of Mr. Nish, of Walton, there is a map of the county made by
                        Jay Gould while in the surveying business, and several years before he
                        became monarch of all he surveyed.
                    Mr. Gould also laid out the town of Walton. Since that he has laid out other
                        towns, but in a different way. He also plotted other towns. Plotted to lay
                        them out, I mean.
                    In Franklin there is an old wheelbarrow which Mr. Gould used on his early
                        surveying trips. In this he carried his surveying instruments, his night
                        shirt and manicure set. Connected with the wheel there is an arrangement by
                        which, at night, the young surveyor could tell at a glance, with the aid of
                        a piece of red chalk and a barn door, just how far he had traveled during
                        the day.
                    This instrument was no doubt the father of the pedometer and the cyclorama,
                        just as the boy is frequently father to the man. It was also no doubt the
                            avant courier of the Dutch clock now used on freight
                        cabooses, which not only shows how far the car has traveled, but also the
                        rate  of speed for each mile, the average
                        rainfall and whether the conductor has eaten onions during the day.
                    This instrument has worked quite a change in railroading since my time. Years
                        ago I can remember when I used to ride in a caboose and enjoy myself, and
                        before good fortune had made me the target of the alert and swift-flying
                        whisk-broom of the palace car, it was my chief joy to catch a freight over
                        the hill from Cheyenne, on the Mountain division. We were not due anywhere
                        until the following day, and so at the top of the mountain we would cut off
                        the caboose and let the train go on. We would then go into the glorious
                        hills and gather sage-hens and cotton-tails. In the summer we would put in
                        the afternoon catching trout in Dale Creek or gathering maiden-hair ferns in
                        the bosky dells. Bosky dells were more plenty there at that time than they
                        are now.
                    It was a delightful sensation to know that we could loll about in the
                        glorious weather, secure a small string of stark, varnished trout with
                        chapped backs, hanging aimlessly by one gill to a gory, willow stringer and
                        then beat our train home by two hours by letting off the brakes and riding
                        twenty miles in fifteen minutes.
                    But Mr. Gould saw that we were enjoying ourselves, and so he sat up nights to
                        oppress us. The result is that the freight conductor has very little more
                        fun now than Mr. Gould himself. All the enjoyment that the conductor of
                        "Second Seven" has now is to pull up his train where it
                        will keep the passengers of No. 5 going west from getting a view of the
                        town. He can also, if he be on a night run, get under the window of a
                        sleeping-car at about I:35 A. M., and make a few desultory remarks about the
                        delinquency of "Third Six" and the lassitude of Skinny
                        Bates who is supposed to brake ahead on No. 11 going west. That is all the
                        fun he has now.
                    I saw Niagara Falls on Thursday for the first time. The  sight is one long to be remembered. I did not go to the falls,
                        but viewed them from the car window in all their might, majesty, power and
                        dominion forever. N. B.—Dominion of Canada.
                    Niagara Falls plunges from a huge elevation by reason of its inability to
                        remain on the sharp edge of a precipice several feet higher than the point
                        to which the falls are now falling. This causes a noise to make its
                        appearance, and a thick mist, composed of minute particles of wetness, rises
                        to its full height and comes down again afterwards. Words are inadequate to
                        show here, even with the aid of a large, powerful new press, the grandeur,
                        what you may call the vertigo, of Niagara. Everybody from all over the world
                        goes to see and listen to the remarks of this great fall. How convenient and
                        pleasant it is to be a cataract like that and have people come in great
                        crowds to see and hear you! How much better that is than to be a lecturer,
                        for instance, and have to follow people to their homes in order to attract
                        their attention!
                    Many people in the United States and Canada who were once as pure as the
                        beautiful snow, have fallen, but they did not attract the attention that the
                        fall of Niagara does.
                    For the benefit of those who may never have been able to witness Niagara
                        Falls in winter, I give here a rough sketch of the magnificent spectacle as
                        I saw it from the 
                         American side. From the Canadian side the
                        aspect of the falls is different, and the names on the cars are not the
                        same, but the effect on one of a sensitive nature is one of intense awe. I
                        know that I cannot put so much of this awe into a hurried sketch as I would
                        like to. In a crude drawing, made while the train was in motion, and at a
                        time when the customs officer was showing the other passengers what I had
                             in my valise, of course I could not make a
                        picture with much sublimity in it, but I tried to make it as true to nature
                        as I could.
                    
                    The officer said that I had nothing in my luggage that was liable to duty,
                        but stated that I would need heavier underwear in Canada than the samples I
                        had with me.
                    Toronto is a stirring city of 150,000 people, who are justly proud of her
                        great prosperity. I only regretted that I could not stay there a long
                        time.
                    I met a man in Cleveland, O., whose name was Macdonald. He was at the Weddell
                        House, and talked freely with me about our country, asking me a great many
                        questions about myself and where I lived and how I was prospering. While we
                        were talking at one time he saw something in the paper which interested him
                        and called him away. After he had gone I noticed the paragraph he had been
                        reading, and saw that it spoke of a man named Macdonald who had recently
                        arrived in town from New York, and who was introducing a new line of green
                        goods.
                    I have often wondered what there is about my general appearance which seems
                        to draw about me a cluster of green-goods men wherever I go. Is it the odor
                        of new-mown hay, or the frank, open way in which I seem to measure the
                        height of the loftiest buildings with my eye as I penetrate the busy haunts
                        of men and throng the crowded marts of trade? Or do strangers suspect me of
                        being a man of means?
                    In Cleveland I was rather indisposed, owing to the fact that I had been
                        sitting up until 2 or 3 o'clock A. M. for several nights in order
                        to miss early trains. I went to a physician, who said I was suffering from
                        some new and attractive disease, which he could cope with in a day or two. I
                        told him to cope. He prescribed a large 42-calibre capsule which he said
                        contained medical properties. It might have contained theatrical properties
                        and still had room left for a baby grand piano. I do not know why the
                        capsule should be so popular. I would rather swallow a porcelain egg or a
                        live turtle. Doctors claim that it is to 
                        prevent the bad taste of the medicines, but I have never yet participated in
                        any medicine which was more disagreeable than the gluey shell of an adult
                        capsule, which looks like an overgrown bott and tastes like a rancid
                        nightmare.
                    I doubt the good taste of any one who will turn up his nose at castor-oil or
                        quinine and yet meekly swallow a chrysalis with varnish on the outside.
                    Everywhere I go I find people who seem pleased with the manner in which I
                        have succeeded in resembling the graphic pictures made to represent me in
                            The World. I can truly say that I am not a vain man,
                        but it is certainly pleasing and gratifying to be greeted by a glance of
                        recognition and a yell of genuine delight from total strangers. Many have
                        seemed to suppose that the massive and undraped head shown in these pictures
                        was the result of artistic license or indolence and a general desire to
                        evade the task of making hair. For such people the thrill of joy they feel
                        when they discover that they have not been deceived is marked and
                        genuine.
                    These pictures also stimulate the press of the country to try it themselves
                        and to add other horrors which do not in any way interfere with the
                        likeness, but at the same time encourages me to travel mostly by night.
                
                
                
                    "Curly Locks!"
                    
                    
                        
                            "Curly Locks! will thou be mine?
                        
                        
                            Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the
                                swine,—
                        
                        
                            But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                        
                        
                            And feast upon strawberries, sugar and
                                cream."
                        
                    
                    
                        Curly Locks! Curly Locks! wilt thou be mine?
                        The throb of my heart is in every line,
                        And the pulse of a passion, as airy and glad
                        In its musical beat as the little Prince had!
                    
                    
                    
                        Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the
                            swine!—
                        O, I'll dapple thy hands with these kisses of mine
                        Till the pink of the nail of each finger shall be
                        As a little pet blush in full blossom for me.
                    
                    
                        But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                        And thou shalt have fabric as fair as a dream,—
                        The red of my veins, and the white of my love,
                        And the gold of my joy for the braiding thereof.
                    
                    
                        And feast upon strawberries, sugar and cream
                        From a service of silver, with jewels agleam, —
                        At thy feet will I bide, at thy beck will I rise,
                        And twinkle my soul in the night of thine eyes!
                    
                    
                        
                            "Curly Locks! Curly Locks! wilt thou be mine?
                        
                        Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine,
                        But sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam,
                        And feast upon strawberries, sugar and cream."
                    
                
                
                
                    Lines or Turning Over a Pass.
                    
                    SOME newspaper men claim that they feel a great deal freer if they pay their
                        fare.
                    That is true, no doubt; but too much freedom does not agree with me. It makes
                        me lawless. I sometimes think that a little wholesome restriction is the
                        best thing in the world for me. That is the reason I never murmur at the
                        conditions on the back of an annual pass. Of course they restrict me from
                        bringing suit against the road in case of death, but I don't mind
                        that. In case of my death it is my intention to lay aside the cares and
                        details of business and try to secure a change of scene and complete rest.
                        People who think that after my demise I shall have nothing better to do than
                        hang around the  musty, tobacco-spattered
                        corridors of a court-room and wait for a verdict of damages against a
                        courteous railroad company do not thoroughly understand my true nature.
                    But the interstate-commerce bill does not shut out the employe! Acting upon
                        this slight suggestion of hope, I wrote, a short time ago, to Mr. St. John,
                        the genial and whole-souled general passenger agent of the Chicago, Rock
                        Island & Pacific Railroad, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ASHEVILLE, N. C.,
                                        Feb. 10, 1887.
                                    
                                    E. St. John, G. P. A., C., R. I. & P.
                                        R'y, Chicago:
                                    Dear Sir—Do you not desire an employe on your
                                        charming road? I do not know what it is to be an employe,
                                        for I was never in that condition, but I pant to be one
                                        now.
                                    Of course I am ignorant of the duties of an employe, but I
                                        have always been a warm friend of your road and rejoiced in
                                        its success. How are your folks?
                                    Yours truly, COL. BILL NYE.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    Day before yesterday I received the following note from General St. John,
                        printed on a purple type-writer: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        CHICAGO,
                                        Feb. 13, 1887.
                                    
                                    Col. Bill Nye, Asheville, N. C.:
                                    Sir—My folks are quite well.
                                    
                                        Yours truly,
                                        E. ST. JOHN.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    I also wrote to Gen. A. V. H. Carpenter, of the Milwaukee road, at the same
                        time, for we had corresponded me back and forth in the
                        happy past. I wrote in about the following terms:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ASHEVILLE, N. C.,
                                        Feb. 10, 1887.
                                    
                                    A. V. H. Carpenter, G. P. A. C., M. & St. P.
                                        R'y, Milwaukee, Wis.:
                                    Dear Sir—How are you fixed for employes this
                                        spring?
                                    I feel like doing something of that kind and could give you
                                        some good endorsements from prominent people both at home
                                        and abroad.
                                    What does an employe have to do?
                                    If I can help your justly celebrated road any here in the
                                        South do not hesitate about mentioning it.
                                    I am still quite lame in my left leg, which was broken in the
                                        cyclone, and cannot walk without great pain. Yours with
                                        kindest regards,
                                    
                                        BILL NYE.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    I have just received the following reply from Mr. Carpenter: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        MILWAUKEE, Wis.
                                        Feb. 14, 1887.
                                    
                                    Bill Nye, Esq., Asheville, N. C:
                                    Dear Sir—You are too late. As I write this letter,
                                        there is a string of men extending from my office door clear
                                        down to the Soldiers' Home. All of them want to be
                                        employes. This crowd embraces the Senate and House of
                                        Representatives of the Wisconsin Legislature, State
                                        officials, judges, journalists, jurors, justices of the
                                        peace, orphans, overseers of highways, fish commissioners,
                                        pugilists, widows of pugilists,, unidentified orphans of
                                        pugilists, etc., etc., and they are all just about as well
                                        qualified to be employes as you are.
                                    I suppose you would poultice a hot box with pounded ice, and
                                        so would they.
                                    I am sorry to hear about your lame leg. The surgeon of our
                                        road says perhaps you do not use it enough.
                                    Yours for the thorough enforcement of law,
                                    
                                        A. V. H. CARPENTER. Per
                                            G.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    Not having written to Mr. Hughitt of the Northwestern road for a long time,
                        and fearing that he might think I had grown cold toward him, I wrote the
                        following note on the 9th:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ASHEVILLE. N. C..
                                        Feb. 9, 1887.
                                    
                                    Marvin Hughitt, Second Vice-President and General
                                        Manager Chicago & Northwestern Railway, Chicago,
                                        Ill.
                                    Dear Sir—Exuse me for not writing before. I did not
                                        wish to write you until I could do so in a bright and cheery
                                        manner, and for some weeks I have been the hot-bed of
                                        twenty-one Early Rose boils. It was extremely humorous
                                        without being funny. My enemies gloated over me in ghoulish
                                        glee.
                                    I see by a recent statement in the press that your road has
                                        greatly increased in business. Do you feel the need of an
                                        employe? Any light employment that will be honorable without
                                        involving too much perspiration would be acceptable.
                                    I am traveling about a good deal these days, and if I can do
                                        you any good as an agent or in referring to your smooth
                                        road-bed and the magnificent scenery along your line, I
                                        would be glad to regard that in the light of employment.
                                        Everywhere I go I hear your road very highly spoken of.
                                    Yours truly, BILL NYE.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    I shall write to some more roads in a few weeks. It seems to me there ought
                        to be work for a man who is able and willing to be an employe.
                
                
                
                    That Night.
                    
                    
                        You And I, And That Night, With Its Perfume And
                            Glory!—
                        The Scent Of The Locusts—the Light Of The Moon;
                        And The Violin Weaving The Waltzers A Story,
                        Enmeshing Their Feet In The Weft Of The Tune,
                        Till Their Shadows Uncertain,
                        Reeled Round On The Curtain,
                        While Under The Trellis We Drank In The June.
                        Soaked Through With The Midnight, The Cedars Were Sleeping,
                        
                        Their Shadowy Tresses Outlined In The Bright
                        Crystal, Moon-Smitten Mists, Where The Fountain'S Heart
                            Leaping
                        Forever, Forever Burst, Full With Delight;
                        And Its Lisp On My Spirit
                        Fell Faint As That Near It
                        Whose Love Like A Lily Bloomed Out In The Night.
                    
                    
                        O Your Glove Was An Odorous Sachet Of Blisses!
                        The Breath Of Your Fan Was A Breeze From Cathay!
                        And The Rose At Your Throat Was A Nest Of Spilled
                            Kisses!—
                        And The Music!—in Fancy I Hear It To-Day,
                        As I Sit Here, Confessing
                        Our Secret, And Blessing
                        My Rival Who Found Us, And Waltzed You Away.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Truth about Methuselah.
                    
                    WE first meet Methuselah in the capacity of a son. At the age of sixty-five
                        Enoch arose one night and telephoned his family physician to come over and
                        assist him in meeting Methuselah. Day at last dawned on Enoch's
                        happy home, and its first red rays lit up the still redder surface of the
                        little stranger. For three hundred years Enoch and Methuselah jogged along
                        together in the capacity of father and son. Then Enoch was suddenly cut
                        down. It was at this time that little Methuselah first realized what it was
                        to be an orphan. He could not at first realize that his father was dead. He
                        could not understand why Enoch, with no inherited disease, should be
                        shuffled off at the age of three hundred and 
                        sixty-five years. But the doctor said to Methuselah: "My son, you
                        are indeed fatherless. I have done all I could, but it is useless. I have
                        told Enoch many a time that if he went' in swimming before the ice
                        went out of the creek it would finally down him, but he thought he knew
                        better than I did. He was a headstrong man, Enoch was. He sneered at me and
                        alluded to me as a fresh young gosling, because he was three hundred years
                        older than I was. He has received the reward of the willful, and verily the
                        doom of the smart Aleck is his."
                    Methuselah now cast about him for some occupation which would take up his
                        attention and assuage his wild, passionate grief over the loss of his
                        father. He entered into the walks of men and learned their ways. It was at
                        this time that he learned the pernicious habit of using tobacco. We cannot
                        wonder at it when we remember that he was now fatherless. He was at the
                        mercy of the coarse, rough world. Possibly he learned the use of tobacco
                        when he went away to attend business college after the death of his father.
                        Be that as it may, the noxious weed certainly hastened his death, for six
                        hundred years after this we find him a corpse!
                    Death is ever a surprise, even at the end of a long illness and after a ripe
                        old age. To those who are near it seems abrupt; so to his grandchildren,
                        some of whom survived him, his children having died of old age, the death of
                        Methuselah came like a thunderbolt from a clear sky.
                    Methuselah succeeded in cording up more of a record, such as it was, than any
                        other man of whom history informs us. Time, the tomb-builder and amateur
                        mower came and leaned over the front yard and looked at Methuselah, and ran
                        his thumb over the jagged edge of his scythe, and went away whistling a low
                        refrain. He kept up this refrain business for nearly ten centuries, while
                             Methuselah continued to stand out amid
                        the general wreck of men and nations.
                    Even as the young, strong mower going forth with his mower for to mow spareth
                        the tall and drab hornet's nest and passeth by on the other side,
                        so Time, with his Waterbury hour-glass and his overworked hay-knife over his
                        shoulder, and his long Mormon whiskers, and his high sleek dome of thought
                        with its gray lambrequin of hair around the base of it, mowed all around
                        Methuselah and then passed on.
                    Methuselah decorated the graves of those who perished in a dozen different
                        wars. He did not enlist himself, for over nine hundred years of his life he
                        was exempt. He would go to the enlisting places and offer his services, and
                        the officer would tell him to go home and encourage his grandchildren to go.
                        Then Methuselah would sit around Noah's front steps, and smoke and
                        criticise the conduct of the war, also the conduct of the enemy.
                    It is said of Methuselah that he never was the same man after his son Lamech
                        died. He was greatly attached to Lamech, and, when he woke up one night to
                        find his son purple in the face with membraneous croup, he could hardly
                        realize that he might lose him. The idea of losing a boy who had just
                        rounded the glorious morn of his 777th year had never occurred to him. But
                        death loves a shining mark, and he garnered little Lammie and left
                        Methuselah to mourn for a couple of centuries.
                    Methuselah finally got so that he couldn't sleep any later than 4
                        o'clock in the morning, and he didn't see how any one else
                        could. The older he got, and the less valuable his time became, the earlier
                        he would rise, so that he could get an early start. As the centuries filed
                        slowly by, and Methuselah got to where all he had to do was to shuffle into
                        his loose-fitting clothes and rest his gums on the top of a large
                        slick-headed cane and mutter up the chimney, and  then groan and extricate himself from his clothes again and
                        retire, he rose earlier and earlier in the morning, and muttered more and
                        more about the young folks sleeping away the best of the day, and he said he
                        had no doubt that sleeping and snoring till breakfast time helped to carry
                        off Lam. But one day old Father Time came along with a new scythe, and he
                        drew the whetstone across it a few times, and rolled the sleeves of his
                        red-flannel undergarment up over his warty elbows, and Mr. Methuselah passed
                        on to that undiscovered country, with a ripe experience and a long, clean
                        record.
                    We can almost fancy how the physicians, who had disagreed about his case all
                        the way through, came and insisted on a post-mortem examination to prove
                        which was right and what was really the matter with him. We can imagine how
                        people went by shaking their heads and regretting that Methuselah should
                        have tampered with tobacco when he knew that it affected his heart.
                    But he is gone. He lived to see his own promissory notes rise, flourish,
                        acquire interest, pine away at last and finally outlaw. He acquired a large
                        farm in the very heart of the county-seat, and refused to move or to plot,
                        and called it Methuselah's addition. He came out in spring
                        regularly for nine hundred years after he got too old to work out his
                        poll-tax on the road, and put in his time telling the rising generation how
                        to make a good road. Meantime other old people, who were almost one hundred
                        years of age, moved away and went West where they would attract attention
                        and command respect. There was actually no pleasure in getting old around
                        where Methuselah was, and being ordered about and scolded and kept in the
                        background by him.
                    So, when at last he died, people sighed and said: "Well, it was
                        better for him to die before he got childish. It was best that he should die
                        at a time when he knew it all. We 
                        can't help thinking what an acquisition Methuselah will be on the
                        evergreen shore when he gets there, with all his ripe experience and his
                        habits of early rising."
                    And the next morning after the funeral Methuselah's family did not
                        get out of bed till nearly 9 o'clock.
                    
                
                
                
                    A Black Hills Episode.
                    
                        A little, warty, dried–up sort
                        O' lookin' chap 'at hadn't
                            ort
                        A ben a-usin' round no bar,
                        With gents like us a-drinkin' thar!
                    
                    
                        And that idee occurred to me
                        The livin' minit 'at I see
                        The little cuss elbowin' in
                        To humor his besettin' sin.
                    
                    
                        There 're nothin' small in me at all,
                        But when I heer the rooster call
                        For shugar and a spoon, I says:
                        "Jest got in from the States, I guess."
                    
                    
                        He never 'peared as if he heerd,
                        But stood thar, wipin' uv his beard,
                        And smilin' to hisself as if
                        I'd been a-givin' him a stiff.
                    
                    
                        And I-says-I, a edgin' by
                        The bantam, and a-gazin' high
                        Above his plug—says I: "I knowed
                        A little feller onc't 'at blowed
                    
                    
                        "Around like you, and tuck his drinks
                        With shugar in—and his folks thinks
                        He's dead now—'cause we boxed and
                            sent
                        The scraps back to the Settlement!"
                    
                    
                        The boys tells me, 'at got to see
                        
                        His modus operandum, he
                        Jest 'peared to come onjointed-like
                        Afore he ever struck a strike!
                    
                    
                        And I'll admit, the way he fit
                        Wuz dazzlin'—what I see uv hit;
                        And squarin' things up fair and fine,
                        Says I: "A little 'shug' in
                            mine!"
                    
                
                
                
                    The Rossville Lecture Course.
                    
                    
                        ROSSVILLE, Mich., March
                            '87.—
                    
                    
                        OLKS up here at Rossville got up a lectur'-course;
                        All the leadin' citizens they wus out in force;
                        Met and talked at Williamses, and 'greed to meet agin,
                        And helt another corkus when the next reports wuz in;
                        Met agin at Samuelses; and met agin at Moore's,
                        And Johnts he put the shutters up and jest barred the
                            doors!—
                        And yit, I'll jest be dagg-don'd! ef
                            didn't take a week
                        'Fore we'd settled where to write to git a man to
                            speak!
                    
                    
                        Found out where the Bureau wus, and then and the agreed
                        To strike while the iron's hot, and foller up the
                            lead.
                        
                        Simp was secatary; so he tuck his pen in hand,
                        And ast what they'd tax us for the one on "Holy
                            Land"—
                        "One of Colonel J. De-Koombs Abelust and Best
                        Lecture," the circ'lar stated, "Give
                            East er West!"
                        Wanted fifty dollars, and his kyar-fare to and from,
                        And Simp was hence instructed fer to write him not to come.
                    
                    
                        Then we talked and jawed around another week er so,
                        And writ the Bureau 'bout the town a-bein' sort
                            o' slow
                        And fogey-like, and pore as dirt, and lackin'
                            enterprise,
                        And ignornter'n any other 'cordin' to
                            its size:
                        Till finally the Bureau said they'd send a cheaper
                            man
                        Fer forty dollars, who would give "A Talk About
                            Japan"—
                        "A regular Japanee hiss'f," the
                            pamphlet claimed and so,
                        Nobody knowed his languige, and of course we let him go!
                    
                    
                        Kindo' then let up a spell—but rallied
                            onc't ag'in,
                        And writ to price a feller on what's called the
                            "violin"—
                        A Swede, er Pole, er somepin—but no matter what he
                            wus,
                        Doc Sifers said he'd heerd him, and he wusn't
                            wuth a kuss!
                        And then we ast fer Swingses terms; and Cook, and Ingersoll—
                        And blame! ef forty dollars looked like anything at all!
                        And then Burdette, we tried fer him; and Bob he
                            writ to say
                        He was busy writin' ortographts, and couldn't
                            git away.
                    
                    
                        At last—along in Aprile—we signed to take
                            this-here
                        Bill Nye of Californy, 'at was posted to appear
                        "The Humorestest Funny Man 'at Ever Jammed a
                            Hall!"
                        So we made big preparations, and swep' out the church and
                            all!
                        
                        And night he wus to lectur', and the neighbors all was
                            there,
                        And strangers packed along the aisles 'at come from
                            ever'-where,
                        Committee got a telegrapht the preacher read, 'at
                            run—
                        "Got off at Rossville, Indiany, 'stead of
                            Michigun."
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    The Tar-heel Cow.
                    
                    ASHEVILLE, N. C., December 9.—There is no place
                        in the United States, so far as I know, where the cow is more versatile or
                        ambidextrous, if I may be allowed the use of a term that is far above my
                        station in life, than here in the mountains of North Carolina, where the
                        obese 'possum and the anonymous distiller have their homes.
                    Not only is the Tar-heel cow the author of a pale, but athletic style of
                        butter, but in her leisure hours she aids in tilling the perpendicular farm
                        on the hillside, or draws the products to market. In this way she contrives
                        to put in her time to the best advantage, and when she dies, it casts a
                        gloom over the community in which she has resided.
                    
                    The life of a North Carolina cow is indeed fraught with various changes and
                        saturated with a zeal which is praiseworthy in the extreme. From the sunny
                        days when she gambols through the beautiful valleys, inserting her black
                        retrousse and perspiration-dotted nose into the blue grass from ear to ear,
                        until at life's close, when every part and portion of her
                        overworked system is turned into food, raiment or overcoat buttons, the life
                        of a Tar-heel cow is one of intense activity.
                    
                    Her girlhood is short, and almost before we have deemed her emancipated from
                        calfhood herself we find her in the capacity of a mother. With the cares of
                        maternity other demands are quickly made upon her. She is obliged to
                        ostracize herself from society, and enter into the prosaic details of
                        producing small, pallid globules of butter, the very pallor of which so
                        thoroughly belies its lusty strength. The butter she turns out rapidly until
                        it begins to be worth something, when she suddenly suspends publication and
                        begins to haul wood to market. In this great work she is assisted by the
                        pearl-gray or ecru colored jackass of the tepid South. This animal has been
                        referred to in the newspapers throughout the country, and yet he never
                        ceases to be an object of the greatest interest.
                    Jackasses in the South are of two kinds, viz., male and Female. Much as has
                        been said of the jackass pro and con,  I do
                        not remember ever to have seen the above statement in print before, and yet
                        it is as trite as it is incontrovertible. In the Rocky mountains we call
                        this animal the burro. There he packs bacon, flour and salt to the miners.
                        The miners eat the bacon and flour, and with the salt they are enabled
                        successfully to salt the mines.
                    The burro has a low, contralto voice which ought to have some machine oil on
                        it. The voice of this animal is not unpleasant if he would pull some of the
                        pathos out of it and make it more joyous.
                    Here the jackass at times becomes a co-worker with the cow in hauling tobacco
                        and other necessaries of life into town, but he goes no further in the
                        matter of assistance. He compels her to tread the cheese press alone and
                        contributes nothing whatever in the way of assistance for the butter
                        industry.
                    The North Carolina cow is frequently seen here driven double or single by
                        means of a small rope line attached to a tall, emaciated gentleman, who is
                        generally clothed with the divine right of suffrage, to which he adds a
                        small pair of earbobbs during the holidays.
                    The cow is attached to each shaft and a small singletree, or swingletree, by
                        means of a broad strap harness. She also wears a breeching, in which respect
                        she frequently has the advantage of her escort.
                    I think I have never witnessed a sadder sight than that of a new milch cow,
                        torn away from home and friends and kindred dear, descending a steep,
                        mountain road at a rapid rate and striving in her poor, weak manner to keep
                        out of the way of a small Jackson Democratic wagon loaded with a big
                        hogshead full of tobacco. It seems to me so totally foreign to the nature of
                        the cow to enter into the tobacco traffic, a line of business for which she
                        can have no sympathy and in which she certainly can feel very little
                        interest.
                    Tobacco of the very finest kind is produced here, and is  used mainly for smoking purposes. It is the highest-price
                        tobacco produced in this country. A tobacco broker here yesterday showed me
                        a large quantity of what he called export tobacco. It looks very much like
                        other tobacco while growing.
                    He says that foreigners use a great deal of this kind. I am learning all
                        about the tobacco industry while here, and as fast as I get hold of any new
                        facts I will communicate them to the press. The newspapers of this country
                        have done much for me, not only by publishing many pleasant things about me,
                        but by refraining from publishing other things about me, and so I am glad to
                        be able, now and then, to repay this kindness by furnishing information and
                        facts for which I have no use myself, but which may be of incalculable value
                        to the press.
                    As I write these lines I am informed that the snow is twenty-six inches deep
                        here and four feet deep at High Point in this State. People who did not
                        bring in their pomegranates last evening are bitterly bewailing their
                        thoughtlessness today.
                    A great many people come here from various parts of the world, for the
                        climate. When they have remained here for one winter, however, they decide
                        to leave it where it is.
                    It is said that the climate here is very much like that of Turin. But I did
                        not intend to go to Turin even before I heard about that.
                    Please send my paper to the same address, and if some one who knows a good
                        remedy for chilblains will contribute it to these columns, I shall watch for
                        it with great interest. Yours as here 24,
                    BILL NYE.
                    
                    P. S.—I should have said, relative to the cow of this State that if
                        the owners would work their butter more and their cows less, they would
                        confer a great boon on the consumer of both.
                    B. N.
                
                
                
                    A Character.
                    
                    
                        I.
                        Swallowed up in gulfs of tho't—
                        Eye-glass fixed—on—who knows what?
                        We but know he sees us not.
                        Chance upon him, here and there—
                        Base-ball park—Industrial Fair—
                        Broadway—Long Branch—anywhere!
                        Even at the races,—yet
                        With his eye-glass tranced and set
                        On some dream-land minaret.
                        At the beach, the where, perchance—
                        Tenderest of eyes may glance
                        On the fitness of his pants.
                        Vain! all admiration—vain!
                        His mouth, o'er and o'er again,
                        Absently absorbs his cane.
                        Vain, as well, all tribute paid
                        To his morning coat, inlaid
                        With crossbars of every shade.
                        
                        He is so oblivious, tho'
                        We played checkers to and fro
                        On his back—he would not know.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        So removed—illustrious—
                        Peace! kiss hands, and leave him thus,
                        He hath never need of us!
                    
                    
                        Come away! Enough! Let be!
                        Purest praise, to such as he,
                        Were as basest obloquy.
                    
                    
                        Vex no more that mind of his,
                        We, to him, are but as phizz
                        Unto pop that knows it is.
                    
                    
                        Haply, even as we prate
                        Of him HERE—in astral state—
                        Or jackastral—he, elate,
                    
                    
                        Brouses 'round, with sportive hops
                        In far fields of sphery crops,
                        Nibbling stars like clover-tops.
                    
                    
                        He, occult and psychic, may
                        Now be solving why to-day
                        Is not midnight.—But away!
                    
                    
                        Cease vain queries! Let us go!
                        Leave him all unfathomed.—Lo,
                        He can hear his whiskers grow.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Diary of Darius T. Skinner.
                    
                    "FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL, New York, Dec. 31, 188.—It hardly seems possible
                        that I am here in New York, putting up at a hotel where it costs me $5 or $6
                        a day just simply to exist. I came here from my far away-home entirely
                        alone. I have no business here, but I simply desired to rub up  against greatness for awhile. I need polish,
                        and I am smart enough to know it.
                    "I write this entry in my diary to explain who I am and to help
                        identify myself in case I should come home to my room intoxicated some night
                        and blow out the gas.
                    "The reason I am here is, that last summer while whacking bulls,
                        which is really my business, I grub-staked Alonzo McReddy and forgot about
                        it till I got back and the boys told me that Lon had struck a First National
                        bank in the shape of the Sarah Waters claim. He was then very low with
                        mountain fever and so nobody felt like jumping the claim. Saturday afternoon
                        Alonzo passed away and left me the Sarah Waters. That's the only
                        sad thing about the whole business now. I am raised from bull-whacking to
                        affluence, but Alonzo is not here. How we would take in the town together if
                        he'd lived, for the Sarah Waters was enough to make us both well
                        fixed.
                    "I can imagine Lon's look of surprise and pride as he looks
                        over the outer battlements of the New Jerusalem and watches me paint the
                        town. Little did Lon think when I pulled out across the flat with my
                        whiskers full of alkali dust and my cuticle full of raw agency whisky, that
                        inside of a year I would be a nabob, wearing biled shirts every single day
                        of my life, and clothes made specially for me.
                    "Life is full of sudden turns, and no one knows here in America
                        where he'll be in two weeks from now. I may be back there
                        associating with greasers again as of yore and skinning the same bulls that
                        I have heretofore skun.
                    "Last evening I went to see 'The Mikado,' a kind
                        of singing theatre and Chinese walk-around. It is what I would call no good.
                        It is acted out by different people who claim they are Chinamen, I reckon.
                        They teeter around on the stage and sing in the English language, but their
                        clothes are peculiar. A homely man, who played that he  was the lord high executioner and chairman of the vigilance
                        committee, wore a pair of wide, bandana pants, which came off during the
                        first act. He was cool and collected, though, and so caught them before it
                        was everlasting too late. He held them on by one hand while he sang the rest
                        of his piece, and when he left the stage the audience heartlessly whooped
                        for him to come back.
                    "'The Mikado' is not funny or instructive as a
                        general thing, but last night it was accidently facetious. It has too much
                        singing and not enough vocal music about it. There is also an overplus of
                        conversation through the thing that seems like talking at a mark for $2 a
                        week. It may be owing to my simple ways, but 'The Mikado'
                        is too rich for my blood.
                    "We live well here at the Fifth Avenue. The man that owns the place
                        puts two silver forks and a clean tablecloth on my table every day, and the
                        young fellows that pass the grub around are so well dressed that it seems
                        sassy and presumptious for me to bother them by asking them to bring me
                        stuff when I'd just as soon go and get it myself and nothing else
                        in the world to do.
                    "I told the waiter at my table yesterday that when he got time I
                        wished he would come up to my room and we could have a game of old sledge.
                        He is a nice young man, and puts himself out a good deal to make me
                        comfortable.
                    "I found something yesterday at the table that bothered me. It was a
                        new kind of a silver dingus, with two handles to it, for getting a lump of
                        sugar into your tea. I saw right away that it was for that, but when I took
                        the two handles in my hand like a nut cracker and tried to scoop up a lump
                        of sugar with it I felt embarrassed. Several people who were total strangers
                        to me smiled.
                    "After dinner the waiter brought me a little pink-glass bowl of
                        lemonade and a clean wipe to dry my mouth with,  I reckon, after I drank the lemonade. I do not pine for lemonade much,
                        anyhow, but this was specially poor. It was just plain water, with a lemon
                        rind and no sugar into it.
                    "One rural rooster from Pittsburg showed his contempt for the blamed
                        stuff by washing his hands in it. I may be rough and uncouth in my style,
                        but I hope I will never lower myself like that in company."
                
                
                
                    THE MAN IN THE
                            MOON
                    
                    
                    O, The Man in the Moon has a crick in his back;
                    
                        Whee!
                        Whimm!
                        Ain't you sorry for him?
                    
                    
                        And a mole on his nose that is purple and black;
                        And his eyes are so weak that they water and run
                        If he dares to dream even he looks at the sun,—
                        So he just dreams of stars, as the doctors advise—
                    
                    
                        My!
                        Eyes!
                        But isn't he wise—
                    
                    
                        To just dream of stars, as the doctors advise?
                        And The Man in the Moon has a boil on his ear—
                    
                    
                        Whee!
                        Whing!
                        What a singular thing!
                    
                    
                        I know; but these facts are authentic, my dear,—
                        There's a boil on his ear, and a corn on his
                            chin—
                        He calls it a dimple,—but dimples stick in—
                        Yet it might be a dimple turned over, you know;
                    
                    
                        Whang!
                        Ho!
                        
                        Why, certainly so!—
                    
                    
                        It might be a dimple turned over, you know!
                        And The Man in the Moon has a rheumatic knee—
                    
                    
                        Gee!
                        Whizz!
                        What a pity that is!
                    
                    
                        And his toes have worked round where his heels ought
                        to be.—
                    
                    
                        So whenever he wants to go North he goes South,
                        And comes back with porridge-crumbs all round his mouth,
                        And he brushes them off with a Japanese fan,
                    
                    
                        Whing!
                        Whann!
                        What a marvelous man!
                        What a very remarkably marvelous man!
                    
                
                
                
                    his Christmas Sled.
                    
                    
                        I watch him, with his Christmas
                        sled;
                        He hitches on behind
                        A passing sleigh, with glad
                        hooray,
                        And whistles down the wind;
                        He hears the horses champ
                        their bits,
                        And bells that jingle-jingle—
                        You Woolly Cap! you Scarlet Mitts!
                        You miniature "Kriss Kringle!"
                    
                    
                        I almost catch your secret joy—
                        Your chucklings of delight,
                        The while you whizz where glory is
                        Eternally in sight!
                        With you I catch my breath, as swift
                        Your jaunty sled goes gliding
                        O'er glassy track and shallow drift,
                        As I behind were riding!
                    
                    
                    
                        He winks at twinklings of the frost,
                        And on his airy race,
                        Its tingles beat to redder heat
                        The rapture of his face:—
                        The colder, keener is the air,
                        The less he cares a feather.
                        But, there! he's gone! and I gaze on
                        The wintriest of weather!
                    
                    
                        Ah, boy! still speeding o'er the track
                        Where none returns again,
                        To sigh for you, or cry for you,
                        Or die for you were vain.—
                        And so, speed on! the while I pray
                        All nipping frosts forsake you—
                        Ride still ahead of grief, but may
                        All glad things overtake you!
                    
                
                
                
                    Her Tired Hands.
                    
                    BOARD a western train the other day, I held in my bosom for over seventy-five
                        miles, the elbow of a large man whose name I do not know. He was not a
                        rail-road hog or I would have resented it. He was built wide and he
                        couldn't help it, so I forgave him.
                    He had a large, gentle, kindly eye, and when he desired to spit, he went to
                        the car door, opened it and decorated the entire outside of the train
                        forgetting that our speed would help to give scope to his remarks.
                    Naturally as he sat there by my side, holding on tightly to his ticket and
                        evidently afraid that the conductor would forget to come and get it, I began
                        to figure out in my mind what might be his business. He had pounded one
                        thumb so that the nail was black where the blood had settled under it. This
                        might happen to a shoemaker, a carpenter, a blacksmith or most any one else.
                        So it didn't help me out  much,
                        though it looked to me as though it might have been done by trying to drive
                        a fence-nail through a leather hinge with the back of an axe and nobody but
                        a farmer would try to do that. Following up the clue, I discovered that he
                        had milked on his boots and then I knew I was right. The man who milks
                        before daylight, in a dark barn, when the thermometer  is down to 28 degrees below and who hits his boot
                        and misses the pail, by reason of the cold and the uncertain light and the
                        prudishness of the cow, is a marked man. He cannot conceal the fact that he
                        is a farmer unless he removes that badge. So I started out on that theory
                        and remarked that this would pass for a pretty hard winter on stock.
                    
                    The thought was not original with me, for I have heard it expressed by others
                        either in this country or Europe. He said it would.
                    "My cattle has gone through a whole mowful o' hay sence
                        October and eleven ton o' brand. Hay don't seem to have
                        the goodness to it thet it hed last year, and with their new pro-cess griss mills they jerk all the juice out o'
                             brand, so's you might as well
                        feed cows with excelsior and upholster your horses with hemlock bark as to
                        buy brand."
                    "Well, why do you run so much to stock? Why don't you try
                        diversified farming, and rotation of crops?"
                    "Well, probably you got that idee in the papers. A man that earns
                        big wages writing Farm Hints for agricultural papers can make more money
                        with a soft lead pencil and two or three season-cracked idees like
                        that'n I can carrying  of
                        'em out on the farm. We used to have a feller in the drugstore in
                        our town that wrote such good pieces for the Rural
                            Vermonter and made up such a good condition powder out of his own
                        head, that two years ago we asked him to write a nessay for the annual
                        meeting of the Buckwheat Trust, and to use his own judgment about choice of
                        subject. And what do you s'pose he had selected for a nessay that
                        took the whole forenoon to read?"
                    "What subject, you mean?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Give it up!"
                    "Well, he'd wrote out that whole blamed intellectual wad on
                        the subject of 'The Inhumanity of Dehorning Hydraulic
                        Rams.' How's that?"
                    "That's pretty fair."
                    "Well, farmin' is like runnin' a paper in regards
                        to some things. Every feller in the world will take and turn in and tell you
                        how to do it, even if he don't know a blame thing about it. There
                        ain't a man in the United States to-day that don't
                        secretly think he could run airy one if his other business busted on him,
                        whether he knows the difference between a new milch cow and a horse hayrake
                        or not. We had one of these embroidered night-shirt farmers come from town
                        better'n three years ago. Been a toilet soap man and done well, and
                        so he came out and bought a farm that had nothing to it but a fancy house
                        and barn, a lot of medder in the front yard and a southern aspect. The farm
                        was no good. You couldn't raise a disturbance on it. Well, what
                        does he do? Goes and gits a passle of slim-tailed, yeller cows from New
                        Jersey and aims to handle cream and diversified farming. Last year the cuss
                        sent a load of cream over and tried to sell it at the new crematory while
                        the funeral and hollercost was goin' on. I may be a sort of a chump
                        myself, but I read my paper and don't get left like
                        that."
                    "What are the prospects for farmers in your State?"
                    
                    "Well, they are pore. Never was so pore, in fact, sence
                        I've ben there. Folks wonder why boys leaves the farm. My boys left
                        so as to get protected, they said, and so they went into a clothing-store,
                        one of 'em, and one went into hardware and one is talking
                        protection in the Legislature this winter. They said that farmin'
                        was gittin' to be like fishin' and huntin', well
                        enough for a man that has means and leisure, but they couldn't make
                        a livin' at it, they said. Another boy is in a drug store, and the
                        man that hires him says he is a royal feller."
                    
                    "Kind of a castor royal feller," I said, with a shriek of
                        laughter.
                    He waited until I had laughed all I wanted to and then he said:
                    "I've always hollered for high terriff in order to hyst the
                        public debt, but now that we've got the national debt coopered I
                        wish they'd take a little hack at mine. I've put in  fifty years farmin'. I never drank
                        licker in any form. I've worked from ten to eighteen hours a day,
                        been economical in cloze and never went to a show more'n a dozen
                        times in my life, raised a family and learned upward of two hundred calves
                        to drink out of a tin pail without blowing all their vittles up my sleeve.
                        My wife worked alongside o' me sewin' new seats on the
                        boys' pants, skimmin' milk and even helpin' me
                        load hay. For forty years we toiled along together and hardly got time to
                        look into each others' faces or dared to stop and get acquainted
                        with each other. Then her health failed. Ketched cold in the spring house,
                        prob'ly skimmin' milk and washin' pans and
                        scaldin' pails and spankin' butter. Anyhow, she took in a
                        long breath one day while the doctor and me was watchin' her, and
                        she says to me, 'Henry,' says she, 'I've
                        got a chance to rest,' and she put one tired, wore-out hand on top
                        of the other tired, wore-out hand, and I knew she'd gone where they
                        don't work all day and do chores all night.
                    "I took time to kiss her then. I'd been too busy for a good
                        while previous to that, and then I called in the boys. After the funeral it
                        was too much for them to stay around and eat the kind of cookin' we
                        had to put up with, and nobody spoke up around the house as we used to. The
                        boys quit whistlin' around the barn and talked kind of low by
                        themselves about goin' to town and gettin' a job.
                    "They're all gone now and the snow is four feet deep on
                        mother's grave up there in the old berryin'
                        ground."
                    Then both of us looked out of the car window quite a long while without
                        saying anything.
                    "I don't blame the boys for going into something else
                        long's other things pays better; but I say — and I say
                        what I know — that the man who holds the prosperity of this country
                        in his hands, the man that actually makes money for other people to spend,
                        the man that eats three good, simple, square meals a day and goes to bed at
                        nine  o'clock, so that future
                        generations with good blood and cool brains can go from his farm to the
                        Senate and Congress and the White House —he is the man that gets
                        left at last to run his farm, with nobody to help him but a hired man and a
                        high protective terriff. The farms in our State is mortgaged for over seven
                        hundred million dollars. Ten of our Western States — I see by the
                        papers — has got about three billion and a half mortgages on their
                        farms, and that don't count the chattel mortgages filed with the
                        town clerks on farm machinery, stock, waggins, and even crops, by gosh! that
                        ain't two inches high under the snow. That's what the
                        prospects is for farmers now. The Government is rich, but the men that made
                        it, the men that fought perarie fires and perarie wolves and Injins and
                        potato-bugs and blizzards, and has paid the war debt and pensions and
                        everything else and hollered for the Union and the Republican party and free
                        schools and high terriff and anything else that they was told to, is left
                        high and dry this cold winter with a mortgage of seven billions and a half
                        on the farms they have earned and saved a thousand times over."
                    "Yes; but look at the glory of sending from the farm the future
                        President, the future Senator and the future member of
                        Congress."
                    "That looks well on paper, but what does it really amount to? Soon
                        as a farmer boy gits in a place like that he forgets the soil that produced
                        him and holds his head as high as a holly-hock. He bellers for protection to
                        everybody but the farmer, and while he sails round in a highty-tighty room
                        with a fire in it night and day, his father on the farm has to kindle his
                        own fire in the morning with elm slivvers, and he has to wear his
                        son's lawn-tennis suit next to him or freeze to death, and he has
                        to milk in an old gray shawl that has held that member of Congress when he
                        was a baby, by gorry! and the old lady has to 
                        sojourn through the winter in the flannels that Silas wore at the riggatter
                        before he went to Congress.
                    "So I say, and I think that Congress agrees with me, Damn a farmer,
                        anyhow!"
                    He then went away.
                    
                
                
                
                    Ezra House.
                    
                        Come listen, good people, while a story I do tell,
                        Of the sad fate of one which I knew so passing well;
                        He enlisted at McCordsville, to battle in the south,
                        And protect his country's union; his name was Ezra
                            House.
                    
                    
                        He was a young school-teacher, and educated high
                        In regards to Ray's arithmetic, and also Algebra.
                        He give good satisfaction, but at his country's call
                        He dropped his position, his Algebra and all.
                    
                    
                        "Its Oh, I'm going to leave you, kind
                            scholars," he said—
                        For he wrote a composition the last day and read;
                        And it brought many tears in the eyes of the school,
                        To say nothing of his sweet-heart he was going to leave so
                            soon.
                    
                    
                        "I have many recollections to take with me away,
                        Of the merry transpirations in the school-room so gay;
                        And of all that's past and gone I will never regret
                        I went to serve my country at the first of the
                            outset!"
                    
                    
                        He was a good penman, and the lines that he wrote On that sad
                            occasion was too fine for me to quote,—
                        For I was there and heard it, and I ever will recall
                        It brought the happy tears to the eyes of us all.
                    
                    
                        And when he left, his sweetheart she fainted away,
                        And said she could never forget the sad day
                        When her lover so noble, and gallant and gay,
                        Said "Fare you well, my true love!" and went
                            marching away.
                    
                    
                    
                        He hadn't been gone for more than two months
                        When the sad news come—"he was in a skirmish
                            once,
                        And a cruel rebel ball had wounded him full sore
                        In the region of the chin, through the canteen he
                            wore."
                    
                    
                    
                        But his health recruited up, and his wounds they got well;
                        But while he was in battle at Bull Run or Malvern Hill,
                        The news come again, so sorrowful to hear—
                        "A sliver from a bombshell cut off his right
                            ear."
                    
                    
                    
                        But he stuck to the boys, and it's often he would
                            write,
                        That "he wasn't afraid for his country to
                            fight."
                        But oh, had he returned on a furlough, I believe
                        He would not, today, have such cause to grieve.
                    
                    
                        For in another battle—the name I never
                            heard—
                        He was guarding the wagons when an accident
                            occurred,—
                        A comrade, who was under the influence of drink,
                        Shot him with a musket through the right cheek, I think.
                    
                    
                        But his dear life was spared, but it hadn't been for
                            long
                        'Till a cruel rebel colonel came riding along,
                        And struck him with his sword, as many do suppose,
                        For his cap-rim was cut off, and also his nose.
                    
                    
                        But Providence, who watches o'er the noble and the
                            brave,
                        Snatched him once more from the jaws of the grave;
                        And just a little while before the close of the war,
                        He sent his picture home to his girl away so far.
                    
                    
                        And she fell into decline, and she wrote in reply,
                        "She had seen his face again and was ready to
                            die;"
                        And she wanted him to promise, when she was in her tomb,
                        He would only visit that by the light of the moon.
                    
                    
                        But he never returned at the close of the war,
                        And the boys that got back said he hadn't the heart;
                        But he got a position in a powder-mill, and said
                        He hoped to meet the doom that his country denied.
                    
                
                
                
                    "Oh, Wilhelmina, Come Back!"
                    PERSONAL—Will the young woman who edited the gray department and
                        corrected proof at our pie foundry for two days and then jumped the game on
                        the evening that we were to have our clergyman to dine with us, please come
                        back, or write to 32 Park Row, saying where she left the crackers and
                        cheese?
                    
                    Come back, Wilhelmina, and be our little sunbeam once more. Come back and
                        cluster around our hearthstone at so much per cluster.
                    If you think best we will quit having company at the house, especially people
                        who do not belong to your set.
                    We will also strive, oh so hard, to make it pleasanter for you in every way.
                        If we had known four or five years ago that children were offensive to you,
                        it would have been different. But it is too late now. All we can do is to
                        shut  them up in a barn and feed them through
                        a knot-hole. If they shriek loud enough to give pain to your throbbing brow,
                        let no one know and we will overcome any false sentiment we may feel towards
                        them and send them to the Tombs.
                    Since you went away we can see how wicked and selfish we were and how little
                        we considered your comfort. We miss your glad smile, also your Tennessee
                        marble cake and your slat pie. We have learned a valuable lesson since you
                        went away, and it is that the blame should not have rested on one alone. It
                        should have been divided equally, leaving me to bear half of it and my wife
                        the other half.
                    Where we erred was in dividing up the blame on the basis of tenderloin steak
                        or peach cobbler, compelling you to bear half of it yourself. That will not
                        work, Wilhelmina. Blame and preserves do not divide on the same basis. We
                        are now in favor of what may be called a sliding scale. We think you will
                        like this better.
                    We also made a grave mistake in the matter of nights out. While young, I
                        formed the wicked and pernicious habit of having nights out myself. I panted
                        for the night air and would go a long distance and stay out a long time to
                        get enough of it for a mess and then bring it home in a paper bag, but I can
                        see now that it is time for me to remain indoors and give young people like
                        yourself a chance, Wilhelmina.
                    So, if I can do anything evenings while you are out that will assist you,
                        such as stoning raisins or neighboring windows command me. I am no cook, of
                        course, but I can peel apples or grind coffee or hold your head for you when
                        you need sympathy. I could also soon learn to do the plain cooking, I think,
                        and friends who come to see us after this have agreed to bring their
                        dinners.
                    There is no reason why harmony should not be restored among us and the old
                        sunlight come back to our roof tree.
                    
                    Another thing I wish to write before I close this humiliating personal. I
                        wish to take back my harsh and bitter words about your singing. I said that
                        you sang like a shingle-mill, but I was mad when I said it, and I wronged
                        you. I was maddened by hunger and you told me that mush and milk was the
                        proper thing for a brain worker, and you refused to give me any dope on my
                        dumpling. Goaded to madness by this I said that you sang like a
                        shingle-mill, but it was not my better, higher nature that spoke. It was my
                        grosser and more gastric nature that asserted itself, and I now desire to
                        take it back. You do not sing like a shingle-mill; at least so much as to
                        mislead a practiced ear.
                    Your voice has more volume, and when your upper register is closed, is
                        mellower than any shingle-mill I ever heard.
                    Come back, Wilhemina. We need you every hour.
                    After you went away we tried to set the bread as we had seen you do it, but
                        it was not a success. The next day it came off the nest with a litter of
                        small, sallow rolls which would easily resist the action of acids.
                    If you cannot come back will you please write and tell me how you are getting
                        along and how you contrive to insert air-holes into home-made bread?
                
                
                
                    A HINT OF SPRING.
                    
                    
                        'Twas but a hint of Spring
                        —for still
                        The atmosphere was sharp
                        and chill —
                        Save where the genial sunshine smote
                        The shoulders of my over-coat,
                        And o'er the snow beneath my feet
                        Laid spectral fences down the street.
                    
                    
                        My shadow even seemed to be
                        Elate with some new buoyancy,
                        And bowed and bobbed in my advance
                        With trippingest extravagance,
                        And when a bird sang out somewhere,
                        It seemed to wheel with me, and stare.
                    
                    
                    
                        Above I heard a rasping stir —
                        And on the roof the carpenter
                        Was perched, and prodding rusty leaves
                        From out the choked and dripping eaves—
                        And some one, hammering about,
                        Was taking all the windows out.
                    
                    
                        Old scraps of shingles fell before
                        The noisy mansion's open door;
                        And wrangling children raked the yard,
                        And labored much, and laughed as hard,
                        And fired the burning trash I smelt
                        And sniffed again —so good I felt!
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        A Treat Ode
                    
                    
                    
                        "Scurious-like," said the tree-toad,
                        "I've twittered fer rain all day;
                        And I got up soon,
                        And hollered till noon—
                        But the sun hit blazed away,
                        Till I jest clumb down in a
                        crawfish-hole,
                        Weary at heart, and sick at soul!
                    
                    
                        "Dozed away fer an hour,
                        And I tackled the thing agin;
                        And I sung, and sung,
                        Till I knowed my lung
                        Was jest about give in;
                        And then, thinks I, ef it don't rain now,
                        There're nothin' in singin' any
                            how!
                    
                    
                        "Once in a while some farmer
                        Would come a driven' past;
                        And he'd hear my cry,
                        And stop and sigh—
                        Till I jest laid back, at last,
                        And I hollered rain till I thought my throat
                        Would bust wide open at ever' note!
                        
                        "But I fetched her!—O I fetched her!—
                        'Cause a little while ago,
                        As I kindo' set
                        With one eye shet,
                        And a-singin' soft and low,
                        A voice drapped down on my fevered brain
                        Sayin',—'Ef you'll jest hush
                            I'll rain!"
                    
                
                
                
                    "Our Wife."
                    
                    HE story opens in 1877, when, on an April morning, the yellow-haired
                        "devil" arrived at the office of the Jack Creek Pizenweed, at 7 o'clock, and found the editor in.
                        It was so unusual to find the editor in at that hour that the boy whistled
                        in a low contralto voice, and passed on into the "news
                        room," leaving the gentlemanly, genial and urbane editor of the Pizenweed as he had found him, sitting in his foundered
                        chair, with his head immersed in a pile of exchanges on the table and his
                        venerable Smith & Wesson near by, acting as a paper-weight. The
                        gentlemanly, genial and urbane editor of the Pizenweed
                        presented the appearence of a man engaged in sleeping off a long and
                        aggravated case of drunk. His hat was on the back of his head, and his
                        features were entirely obscured by the loose papers in which they
                        nestled.
                    Later on, Elijah P. Beckwith, the foreman, came in, and found the following
                        copy on the hook, marked "Leaded 
                        Editorial," and divided it up into "takes" for
                        the yellow-haired devil and himself:
                    "In another column of this issue will be found, among the legal
                        notices, the first publication of a summons in an action for divorce, in
                        which our wife is plaintiff and we are made defendant. While generally
                        deprecating the practice of bringing private matters into public through the
                        medium of the press, we feel justified in this instance, inasmuch as the
                        summons sets forth, as a cause of action, that we are, and have been, for
                        the space of ten years, a confirmed drunkard without hope of recovery, and
                        totally unwilling to provide for and maintain our said wife.
                    "That we have been given to drink, we do not, at this time,
                        undertake to deny or in any way controvert, but that we can not quit at any
                        time, we do most earnestly contend.
                    "In 1867, on the 4th day of July, we married our wife. It was a
                        joyful day, and earth had never looked to us so fair or so desirable as a
                        summer resort as it did that day. The flowers bloomed, the air was fresh and
                        exhilarating, the little birds and the hens poured forth their respective
                        lays. It was a day long to be remembered, and it seemed as though we had
                        never seen Nature get up and hump herself to be so attractive as she did on
                        this special morning—the morning of all mornings—the
                        morning on which we married our wife.
                    "Little did we then dream that after ten years of varying fortune we
                        would to-day give utterance to this editorial, or that the steam power-press
                        of the Pizenweed would squat this legal notice for
                        divorce, a vinculo et thoro, into the virgin page of our
                        paper. But such is the case. Our wife has abandoned us to our fate, and has
                        seen fit to publish the notice in what we believe to be the spiciest paper
                        published west of the Missouri river. It was not necessary that the notice
                        should be published. We were ready at any time to admit service, provided
                        that plaintiff would serve it while  we were
                        sober. We can not agree to remain sober after ten o'clock a.m. in
                        order to give people a chance to serve notices on us. But in this case
                        plaintiff knew the value of advertising, and she selected a paper that goes
                        to the better classes all over the Union. When our wife does anything she
                        does it right.
                    "For ten years our wife and we have trudged along together. It has
                        been a record of errors and failures on our part; a record of heroic
                        devotion and forbearance on the part of our wife. It is over now, and with
                        nothing to remember that is not soaked full of bitterness and wrapped up in
                        red flannel remorse, we go forth to-day and herald our shame by publishing
                        to the world the fact, that as husband, we are a depressing failure, while
                        as a red-eyed and a rum-soaked ruin and all-round drunkard, we are a
                        tropical triumph. We print this without egotism, and we point to it
                        absolutely without vain glory.
                    "Ah, why were we made the custodian of this fatal gift, while others
                        were denied? It was about the only talent we had, but we have not wrapped it
                        up in a napkin. Sometimes we have put a cold, wet towel on it, but we have
                        never hidden it under a bushel. We have put it out at three per cent a
                        month, and it has grown to be a thirst that is worth coming all the way from
                        Omaha to see. We do not gloat over it. We do not say all this to the
                        disparagement of other bright, young drinkers, who came here at the same
                        time, and who had equal advantages with us. We do not wish to speak lightly
                        of those whose prospects for filling a drunkard's grave were at one
                        time even brighter than ours. We have simply sought to hold our position
                        here in the grandest galaxy of extemporaneous inebriates in the wild and
                        woolly West. We do not wish to vaunt our own prowess, but we say, without
                        fear of successful contradiction, that we have done what we could.
                    "On the fourth page of this number will be found,  among other announcements, the advertisement
                        of our wife who is about to open up the old laundry at the corner of Third
                        and Cottonwood streets, in the Briggs building. We hope that our citizens
                        will accord her a generous patronage, not so much on her husband's
                        account, but because she is a deserving woman, and a good laundress. We wish
                        that we could as safely recommend every advertiser who patronizes these
                        columns as we can our wife.
                    "Unkind critics will make cold and unfeeling remarks because our
                        wife has decided to take in washing, and they will look down on her, no
                        doubt, but she will not mind it, for it will be a pleasing relaxation to
                        wash, after the ten years of torch-light procession and Mardi Gras frolic
                        she has had with us. It is tiresome, of course, to chase a pillow case up
                        and down the wash-board all day, but it is easier and pleasanter than it is
                        to run a one-horse Inebriate Home for ten years on credit.
                    "Those who have read the Pizenweed for the past three years will
                        remember that it has not been regarded as an outspoken temperance organ. We
                        have never claimed that for it. We have simply claimed that, so far as we
                        are personally concerned, we could take liquor or we could let it alone.
                        That has always been our theory. We still make that claim. Others have said
                        the same thing, but were unable to do as they advertised. We have been
                        taking it right along, between meals for ten years. We now propose, and so
                        state in the prospectus, that we will let it alone. We leave the public to
                        judge whether or not we can do what we claim."
                    After the foreman had set up the above editorial, he went in to speak to the
                        editor, but he was still slumbering. He shook him mildly, but he did not
                        wake. Then Elijah took him by the collar and lifted him up so that he could
                        see the editor's face.
                    It was a pale, still face, firm in its new resolution to forever  "let it alone." On the
                        temple and under the heavy sweep of brown hair there was a powder-burned
                        spot and the cruel affidavit of the "Smith and Wesson"
                        that our wife had obtained her decree.
                    The editor of the Pizenweed had demonstrated that he could
                        drink or he could let it alone.
                
                
                
                
                    My Bachelor Chum.
                    
                    
                        O a corpulent man is my bachelor chum,
                        With a neck apoplectic and thick,
                        And an abdomen on him as big as a drum,
                        And a fist big enongh for the stick;
                        With a walk that for grace is clear out of the case,
                        And a wobble uncertain—as though
                        His little bow-legs had for-gotten the pace
                        That in youth used to favor him so.
                    
                    
                        He is forty, at least; and the top of his head
                        Is a bald and a glittering thing;
                        And his nose and his two chubby cheeks are as red As three rival
                            roses in spring.
                        His mouth is a grin with the corners tucked in, And his laugh is
                            so breezy and bright
                        That it ripples his features and dimples his chin With a billowy
                            look of delight.
                    
                    
                    
                        He is fond of declaring he "don't care a
                            straw"—That "the ills of a
                            bachelor's life
                        Are blisses compared with a mother-in-law, And a boarding-school
                            miss for a wife!"
                        So he smokes, and he drinks, and he jokes and he winks, And he
                            dines, and he wines all alone,
                        With a thumb ever ready to snap as he thinks Of the comforts he
                            never has known.
                    
                    
                        But up in his den— (Ah my bachelor chum!) I have sat with
                            him there in the gloom,
                        When the laugh of his lips died away to become But a phantom of
                            mirth in the room!
                        And to look on him there you would love him, for all His
                            ridiculous ways, and be dumb
                        As the little girl-face that smiles down from the wall On the
                            tears of my bachelor chum.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Philanthropical Jay.
                    It had been ten long weary years since I last met Jay Gould until I called
                        upon him yesterday to renew the acquaintance and discuss the happy past. Ten
                        years of patient toil and earnest endeavor on my part, ten years of
                        philanthropy on his, have been filed away in the grim and greedy heretofore.
                        Both of us have changed in that time, though Jay has changed more than I
                        have. Perhaps that is because he has been thrown more in contact with change
                        than I have.
                    Still, I had changed a good deal in those years, for when I called at
                        Irvington yesterday Mr. Gould did not remember me. Neither did the watchful
                        but overestimated dog in the front yard. Mr. Gould lives in comfort, in a
                        cheery home, surrounded by hired help and a barbed-wire fence.
                    By wearing ready-made clothes, instead of having his clothing made especially
                        for himself, he has been enabled to amass a good many millions of dollars
                        with which he is enabled to buy things.
                    Carefully concealing the fact that I had any business relations with the
                        press, I gave my card to the person who does chores for Mr. Gould, and,
                        apologizing for not having dropped in before, I took a seat in the spare
                        room to wait for the great railroad magnate.
                    Mr. Gould entered the room with a low, stealthy tread, and looked me over in
                        a cursory way and yet with the air of a connoisseur.
                    "I believe that I have never had the pleasure of meeting you before,
                        sir," said the great railroad swallower and amateur Philanthropist
                        with a tinge of railroad irony.
                    
                    "Yes, sir, we met some ten years ago," said I, lightly
                        running my fingers over the keys of the piano in order to show him that I
                        was accustomed to the sight of a piano. "I was then working in the
                        rolling mill at Laramie City, Wyo., and you came to visit the mill, which
                        was then operated by the Union Pacific Railroad Company. You do not remember
                        me because I have purchased a different pair of trousers since I saw you,
                        and the cane which I wear this season  changes
                        my whole appearance also. I remember you, however, very much."
                    "Well, if we grant all that, Mr. Nye, will you excuse me for asking
                        you to what I am indebted for this call?"
                    "Well, Mr. Gould," said I, rising to my full height and
                        putting my soft hat on the brow of the Venus de Milo, after which I seated
                        myself opposite him in a degage Western way, "you
                        are indebted to me for this call. That's what
                        you're indebted to. But we will let that pass. We are not here to
                        talk about indebtedness, Jay. If you are busy you  needn't return this call till next winter. But I am
                        here just to converse in a quiet way, as between man and man; to talk over
                        the past, to ask you how your conduct is and to inquire if I can do you any
                        good in any way whatever. This  is no time to
                        speak pieces and ask in a grammatical way, 'To what you are
                        indebted for this call.' My main object in coming up here was to
                        take you by the hand and ask you how your memory is this spring? Judging
                        from what I could hear, I was led to believe that it was a little inclined
                             to be sluggish and atrophied days and to
                        keep you awake nights. Is that so, Jay?"
                    "No, sir; that is not so."
                    "Very well, then I have been misled by the reports in the papers,
                        and I am glad it is all a mistake. Now, one thing more before I go. Did it
                        ever occur to you that while you and your family are all out in your yacht
                        together some day, a sudden squall, a quick lurch of the lee scuppers, a
                        tremulous movement of the main brace, a shudder of the spring boom might
                        occur and all be over?"
                    "Yes, sir. I have often thought of it, and of course such a thing
                        might happen at any time; but you forget that while we are out on the broad
                        and boundless ocean we enjoy ourselves. We are free. People with morbid
                        curiosity cannot come and call on us. We cannot get the daily newspapers,
                        and we do not have to meet low, vulgar people who pay their debts and
                        perspire."
                    "Of course, that is one view to take of it; but that is only a
                        selfish view. Supposing that you have made no provision for the future in
                        case of accident, would it not be well for you to name some one outside of
                        your own family to take up this great burden which is now weighing you down
                        — this money which you say yourself has made a slave of you
                        — and look out for it? Have you ever considered this matter
                        seriously and settled upon a good man who would be willing to water your
                        stock for you, and so conduct your affairs that nobody would get any benefit
                        from your vast accumulations, and in every way carry out the policy which
                        you have inaugurated?
                    "If you have not thoroughly considered this matter I wish that you
                        would do so at an early date. I have in my mind's eye just such a
                        man as you need. His shoulders are well fitted for a burden of this kind,
                        and he would pick it up cheerfully at any time you see fit to lay it down. I
                        will give you his address."
                    
                    "Thank you," said Mr. Gould, as the thermometer in the next
                        room suddenly froze up and burst with a loud report. "And now, if
                        you will excuse me from offsetting my time, which is worth $500 a minute,
                        against yours, which I judge to be worth about $1 per week, I will bid you
                        good morning."
                    He then held the door open for me, and shortly after that I came away. There
                        were three reasons why I did not remain, but the principal reason was that I
                        did not think he wanted me to do so.
                    And so I came away and left him. There was little else that I could say after
                        that.
                    It is not the first time that a Western man has been treated with
                        consideration in his own section, only to be frowned upon and frozen when he
                        meets the same man in New York.
                    Mr. Gould is below the medium height, and is likely to remain so through
                        life. His countenance wears a crafty expression, and yet he allowed himself
                        to be April-fooled by a genial little party of gentlemen from Boston, who
                        salted the Central Branch of the Union Pacific Railroad by holding back all
                        the freight for two weeks in order to have it on the road while Jay was
                        examining the property.
                    Jay Gould would attract very little attention here on the streets, but he
                        would certainly be looked upon with suspicion in Paradise. A man who would
                        fail to remember that he had $7,000,000 that belonged to the Erie road, but
                        who does not forget to remember whenever he paid his own hotel bills at
                        Washington, is the kind of man who would pull up and pawn the pavements of
                        Paradise within thirty days after he got there.
                    After looking over the above statement carefully, I feel called upon, in
                        justice to myself, to state that Dr. Burchard did not assist me in
                        constructing the last sentence.
                    
                    For those boys who wish to emulate the example of Jay Gould, the example of
                        Jay Gould is a good example for them to emulate.
                    
                    If any little boy in New York on this beautiful Sabbath morning desires to
                        jeopardize his immortal soul in order to be beyond the reach of want, and
                        ride gayly over the sunlit billows where the cruel fangs of the Excise law
                        cannot reach him, let him cultivate a lop-sided memory, swap friends for
                        funds and wise counsel for crooked consols.
                    If I had thought of all this as I came down the front steps at Irvington the
                        other day, I would have said it to Mr. Gould; but I did not think of it
                        until I got home. A man's best thoughts frequently come to him too
                        late for publication,  But the name of Jay
                        Gould will not go down to future generations linked with those of Howard and
                        Wilberforce. It will not go very far any way. In this age of millionaires, a
                        millionaire more or less does not count very much, and only the good
                        millionaires who baptize and beautify their wealth in the eternal sunlight
                        of unselfishness will have any claim on immortality.
                    In this period of progress and high-grade civilization, when Satan takes
                        humanity up to the top of a high mountain and shows his railroads and his
                        kerosene oil and his distilleries and his coffers filled with pure leaf
                        lard, and says: "All this will I give for a seat in the
                        Senate," a common millionaire with no originality of design does
                        not excite any more curiosity on Broadway than a young man who is led about
                        by a little ecru dog.
                    I do not wish to crush capital with labor, or to further intensify the
                        feeling which already exists between the two, for I am a land-holder and
                        taxpayer myself, but I say that the man who never mixes up with the common
                        people unless he is summoned to explain something and shake the moths out of
                        his memory will some day, when the grass grows green over his own grave,
                        find himself confronted by the same kind of a memory on the part of
                        mankind.
                    I do not say all this because I was treated in an off-hand manner by Mr.
                        Gould, but because I think it ought to be said.
                    As I said before, Jay Gould is considerably below the medium height and I am
                        not going to take it back.
                    He is a man who will some day sit out on the corner of a new-laid planet with
                        his little pink railroad maps on his knees, and ask "Where am
                        I?" and the echoes from every musty corner of miasmatic oblivion
                        will take up the question and refer it to the judiciary committee; but it
                        will curl up and die like the minority report against a big railroad land
                        grant.
                
                
                
                    "A Brave, Refrain".
                    
                        WHEN snow is here, and the trees look weird,
                        And the knuckled twigs are gloved with frost;
                        When the breath congeals in the drover's beard,
                        And the old pathway to the barn is lost;
                    
                    
                    
                        When the rooster's crow is sad to hear, And the stamp of
                            the stabled horse is vain,
                        And the tone of the cow-bell grieves the ear— O then is
                            the time for a brave refrain!
                    
                    
                        When the gears hang stiff on the harness-peg, And the tallow gleams
                            in frozen streaks;
                        
                        And the old hen stands on a lonesome leg, And the pump sounds
                            hoarse and the handle squeaks;
                        When the woodpile lies in a shrouded heap, And the frost is
                            scratched from the window-pane,
                        And anxious eyes from the inside peep— O then is the time
                            for a brave refrain!
                    
                    
                        When the ax-helve warms at the chimney-jamb! And hob-nailed boots
                            on the hearth below,
                        And the house cat curls in a slumber calm, And the eight-day clock
                            ticks loud and slow;
                        When the harsh broom-handle jabs the ceil 'Neath the
                            kitchen-loft, and the drowsy brain
                        Sniffs the breath of the morning meal—O then is the time
                            for a brave refrain!
                    
                    'Envoi.
                    
                        When the skillet seethes, and a blubbering hot Tilts the lid of the
                            coffee-pot,
                        And the scent of the buckwheat cake grows plain—
                        O then is the time for a brave refrain!
                    
                
                
                
                    A Blasted Snore.
                    Sleep, under favorable circumstances, is a great boon. Sleep, if natural and
                        undisturbed, is surely as useful as any other scientific discovery. Sleep,
                        whether administered at home or abroad, under the soporific influences of an
                        underpaid preacher or the unyielding wooden cellar door that is used as a
                        blanket in the sleeping car, is a harmless dissipation and a cheerful
                        relaxation.
                    Let me study a man for the first hour after he has wakened and I will judge
                        him more correctly than I would to watch him all winter in the Legislature.
                        We think we are pretty well acquainted with our friends, but we are not
                        thoroughly conversant with their peculiarities until we have seen them wake
                        up in the morning.
                    I have often looked at the men I meet and thought what a shock it must be to
                        the wives of some of them to wake up and see their husbands before they have
                        had time to prepare, and while their minds are still chaotic.
                    The first glimpse of a large, fat man, whose brain has drooped down behind
                        his ears, and whose wheezy breath wanders around through the catacombs of
                        his head and then emerges from his nostrils with a shrill snort like the
                        yelp of the damned, must be a charming picture for the eye of a delicate and
                        beautiful second wife; one who loves to look on green meadows and glorious
                        landscapes; one who has always wakened with a song and a ripple of laughter
                        that fell on her father's heart like a shower of sunshine in the
                        sombre green of the valley.
                    It is a pet theory of mine that to be pleasantly wakened is half the battle
                        for the day. If we could be wakened by  the
                        refrain of a joyous song, instead of having our front teeth knocked out by
                        one of those patent pillow-sham holders that sit up on their hind feet at
                        the head of the bed, until we dream that we are just about to enter Paradise
                        and have just passed our competitive examination, and which then swoop down
                        and mash us across the bridge of the nose, there would be less insanity in
                        our land and death would be regarded more in the light of a calamity.
                    When you waken a child do it in a pleasant way. Do not take him by the ear
                        and pull him out of bed. It is disagreeable for the child, and injures the
                        general tout ensemble of the ear. Where children go to
                        sleep with tears on their cheeks and are wakened by the yowl of dyspeptic
                        parents, they have a pretty good excuse for crime in after years. If I sat
                        on the bench in such cases I would mitigate the sentence.
                    It is a genuine pleasure for me to wake up a good-natured child in a
                        good-natured way. Surely it is better from those dimpled lids to chase the
                        sleep with a caress than to knock out slumber with a harsh word and a bed
                        slat.
                    No one should be suddenly wakened from a sound sleep. A sudden awaking
                        reverses the magnetic currents, and makes the hair pull, to borrow an
                        expression from Dante. The awaking should be natural, gradual, and
                        deliberate.
                    A sad thing occurred last summer on an Omaha train. It was a very warm day,
                        and in the smoking-car a fat man, with a magenta fringe of whiskers over his
                        Adam's apple, and a light, ecru lambrequin of real camel's
                        hair around the suburbs of his head, might have been discovered.
                    He could have opened his mouth wider, perhaps, but not without injuring the
                        mainspring of his neck and turning his epiglottis out of doors.
                    He was asleep.
                    He was not only slumbering, but he was putting the earnestness and passionate
                        devotion of his whole being into  it. His
                        shiny, oilcloth grip, with the roguish tip of a discarded collar just
                        peeping out at the side, was up in the iron wall-pocket of the car. He also
                        had, in the seat with him, a market basket full of misfit lunch and a
                        two-bushel bag containing extra apparel. On the floor he had a crock of
                        butter with a copy of the Punkville Palladium and Stock Grower's Guardian over the top.
                    He slumbered on in a rambling sort of a way, snoring all the time in
                        monosyllables, except when he erroneously swallowed his tonsils, and then he
                        would struggle awhile and get black in the face, while the passengers vainly
                        hoped that he had strangled.
                    While he was thus slumbering, with all the eloquence and enthusiasm of a man
                        in the full meridian of life, the train stopped with a lurch, and the
                        brakeman touched his shoulder.
                    "Here's your town," he said. "We only
                        stop a minute. You'll have to hustle."
                    The man, who had been far away, wrestling with Morpheus, had removed his hat,
                        coat, and boots, and when he awoke his feet absolutely refused to go back
                        into the same quarters.
                    At first he looked around reproachfully at the people in the car. Then he
                        reached up and got his oilcloth grip from the bracket. The bag was tied
                        together with a string, and as he took it down the string untied. Then we
                        all discovered that this man had been on the road for a long time, with no
                        object, apparently, except to evade laundries. All kinds of articles fell
                        out in the aisle. I remember seeing a chest-protector and a linen coat, a
                        slab of seal-brown gingerbread and a pair of stoga boots, a hairbrush and a
                        bologna sausage, a plug of tobacco and a porous plaster.
                    He gathered up what he could in both arms, made two trips to the door and
                        threw out all he could, tried again to put 
                        his number eleven feet into his number nine boots, gave it up, and socked
                        himself out of the car as it began to move, while the brakeman bombarded him
                        through the window for two miles with personal property, groceries,
                        dry-goods, boots  and shoes, gents'
                        furnishing goods, hardware notions, bric-a-brac, red
                        herrings, clothing, doughnuts, vinegar bitters, and facetious remarks.
                    Then he picked up the retired snorer's railroad check from the seat,
                        and I heard him say: "Why, dog on it, that wasn't his town
                        after all."
                
                
                
                    Good-bye er howdy-do.
                    
                    
                        Say good-bye er howdy-do—
                        What's the odds betwixt the two?
                        Comin'— goin'— every
                            day—
                        Best friends first to go away—
                        Grasp of hands you druther hold
                        Than their weight in solid gold,
                        Slips their grip while greetin' you.—
                        Say good-bye er howdy-do?
                        
                        Howdy-do, and then, good-bye—
                        Mixes jest like laugh and cry;
                        Deaths and births, and worst and best
                        Tangled their contrariest;
                        Ev'ry jinglin' weddin'-bell
                        Skeearin' up some funeral knell.—
                        Here's my song, and there's your sigh:
                        Howdy-do, and then, good-bye!
                        Say good-bye er howdy-do—
                        Jest the same to me and you;
                        'Taint worth while to make no fuss,
                        'Cause the job's put up on us!
                        Some one's runnin' this concern
                        That's got nothin' else to learn—
                        If he's willin', we'll pull
                            through.
                        Say good-bye or howdy-do!
                    
                
                
                
                    
                    The following constitute the items of great interest occurring on the East
                        Side among the colored people of Blue Ruin:
                    Montmorency Tousley of Pizen Ivy avenue cut his foot badly last week while
                        chopping wood for a party on Willow street. He has been warned time and
                        again not to chop wood when the sign was not right, but he would not listen
                        to his friends. He not only cut off enough of his foot to weigh three or
                        four pounds, but completely gutted the coffee sack in which his foot was
                        done up at the time. It will be some time before he can radiate around among
                        the boys on Pizen avenue again.
                    Plum Beasley's house caught on fire last Tuesday night. He reckons
                        it was caused by a defective flue, for the fire caught in the north wing.
                        This is one of Plum's bon mots, however. He tries to make light of
                        it, but the wood he has been using all winter was white birch, and when he
                        got a big dose of hickory at the same place last week it was so dark that he
                        didn't notice the difference and before he knew  it he had a bigger fire than he had allowed.
                        In the midst of a pleasant flow of conversation gas collected in the wood
                        and caused an explosion which threw a passel of live coals on the bed. The
                        house was soon a solid mass of flame. Mr. Beasley is still short two
                        children.
                    Mr. Granulation Hicks, of Boston, Mass., who has won deserved distinction in
                        advancing the interests of Sir George Pullman, of Chicago, is here visiting
                        his parents, who reside on Upper Hominy. We are glad to see Mr. Hicks and
                        hope he may live long to visit Blue Ruin and propitiate up and down our
                        streets.
                    Miss Roseola Cardiman has just been the recipient of a beautiful pair of
                        chaste ear-bobs from her brother, who is a night watchman in a jewelry store
                        run by a man named Tiffany in New York. Roseola claims that Tiffany makes a
                        right smart of her brother, and sets a heap by him.
                    Whooping-cough and horse distemper are again making fearful havoc among the
                        better classes at the foot of Pizen Ivy avenue.
                    We are pained to learn that the free reading room, established over
                        Amalgamation Brown's store, has been closed up by the police. Blue
                        Ruin has clamored for a free temperance reading room and brain retort for
                        ten years, and now a ruction between two of our best known citizens, over
                        the relative merits of a natural pair and a doctored flush, has called down
                        the vengeance of the authorities, and shut up what was a credit to the place
                        and a quiet resort, where young men could come night after night and kind of
                        complicate themselves at. There are two or three men in this place that will
                        bully or bust everything they can get into, and they have perforated more
                        outrages on Blue Ruin than we are entitled to put up with.
                    There was a successful doings at the creek last Sabbath, during which baptism
                        was administered to four grown  people and a
                        dude from Sandy Mush. The pastor thinks it will take first-rate, though it
                        is still too soon to tell.
                    Surrender Adams got a letter last Friday from his son Gladstone, who filed on
                        a homestead near Porcupine, Dak., two years ago. He says they have had
                        another of those unprecedented winters there for which Dakota is so justly
                        celebrated. He thinks this one has been even more so than any of the others.
                        He wishes he was back here at Blue Ruin, where a man can go out doors for
                        half an hour without getting ostracized by the elements. He says they brag a
                        good deal on their ozone there, but he allows that it can be overdone. He
                        states that when the ozone in Dakota is feeling pretty well and humping
                        itself and curling up sheet-iron roofs and blowing trains off the track, a
                        man has to tie a clothes-line to himself, with the other end fastened to the
                        door knob, before it is safe to visit his own hen-house. He says that his
                        nearest neighbor is seventeen miles away, and a man might as well buy his
                        own chickens as to fool his money away on seventeen miles of
                        clothes-line.
                    It is a first-rate letter, and the old man wonders who Gladstone got to write
                        it for him.
                    The valuable ecru dog of our distinguished townsman, Mr. Piedmont Babbit, was
                        seriously impaired last Saturday morning by an east-bound freight.
                    He will not wrinkle up his nose at another freight train.
                    George Wellington, of Hickory, was in town the front end of the week. He has
                        accepted a position in the livery, feed and sale stable at Sandy Mush. Call
                        again, George.
                    Gabriel Brant met with a sad mishap a few days since while crossing the
                        French Broad river, by which he lost his leg.
                    Any one who may find an extra leg below where the accident occurred will
                        confer a favor on Mr. Brant by returning same to No. 06 1/2 Pneumonia
                        street. It may be  readily identified by any
                        one, as it is made of an old pick-handle and weighs four pounds.
                    J. Quincy Burns has written a war article for the Century magazine, regarding
                        a battle where he was at. In this article he aims to describe the sensations
                        of a man who is ignorant of physical fear and yet yearns to have the matter
                        submitted to arbitration. He gives a thorough expose of his efforts in
                        trying to find a suitable board of arbitration as soon as he saw that the
                        enemy felt hostile and eager for the fray.
                    The forthcoming number of the Century will be eagerly snapped up by Mr.
                        Burns' friends who are familiar with his pleasing and graphic style
                        of writing. He describes with wonderful power the sense of utter exhaustion
                        which came over him and the feeling of bitter disappointment when he
                        realized that he was too far away to participate in the battle and too
                        fatigued to make a further search for suitable arbitrators.
                
                
                
                    
                        "HE SMOKES—AND THAT'S ENOUGH," SAYS
                            MA—
                    
                    
                    While Cigarettes to Ashes Turn.
                    I.
                    
                        "He smokes—and that's enough,"
                            says Ma—
                        "And cigarettes, at that!" says Pa.
                        "He must not call again" says she—
                        "He shall not call again!" says
                            he.
                        They both glare at me as before—
                        Then quit the room and bang the door,—
                        While I, their willful daughter, say,
                        "I guess I'll love him, anyway!"
                    
                    II.
                    
                        At twilight, in his room, alone,
                        His careless feet inertly thrown
                        Across a chair, my fancy can
                        But worship this most worthless man!
                        I dream what joy it is to set
                        His slow lips round a cigarette,
                        With idle-humored whiff and puff—
                        Ah! this is innocent enough!
                        To mark the slender fingers raise
                        The waxen match's dainty blaze,
                        Whose chastened light an instant glows
                        On drooping lids and arching nose,
                        Then, in the sudden gloom, instead,
                        A tiny ember, dim and red,
                        
                        Blooms languidly to ripeness, then
                        Fades slowly, and grows ripe again.
                    
                    III.
                    
                        I lean back, in my own boudoir—
                        The door is fast, the sash ajar;
                        And in the dark, I smiling stare
                        At one wide window over there,
                        Where some one, smoking, pinks the gloom
                        The darling darkness of his room!
                        I push my shutters wider yet,
                        And lo! I light a cigarette;
                        And gleam for gleam, and glow for glow,
                        Each pulse of light a word we know,
                        We talk of love that still will burn
                        While cigarettes to ashes turn.
                    
                
                
                
                    Says He.
                    
                        "WHATEVER the weather may be,' says
                            he—
                        "Whatever the weather may be—
                        Its plaze, if ye will, an' I'll say me
                            say—
                        Supposin' to-day was the winterest day,
                        Wud the weather be changing because ye cried,
                        Or the snow be grass were ye crucified?
                        The best is to make your own summer," says he,
                        "Whatever the weather may be," says
                            he—
                        "Whatever the weather may be!
                        "Whatever the weather may be," says
                            he—
                        "Whatever the weather may be,
                        
                        Its the songs ye sing, an' the smiles ye wear
                        That's a-makin' the sunshine everywhere;
                        An' the world of gloom is a world of glee,
                        Wid the bird in the bush, an' the bud in the tree,
                        Whatever the weather may be," says he—
                        "Whatever the weather may be!
                        
                        "Whatever the weather may be," says
                            he—
                        "Whatever the weather may be,
                        Ye can bring the spring, wid its green an gold,
                        An' the grass in the grove where the snow lies cold,
                        An' ye'll warm your back, wid a smiling
                            face,
                        As ye sit at your heart like an owld fireplace,
                        Whatever the weather may be," says he'
                        "Whatever the weather may be!"
                    
                
                
                
                    Where the Roads are Engaged in Forking.
                    I am writing this at an imitation hotel where the roads fork. I will call it
                        the Fifth Avenue Hotel because the hotel at a railroad junction is generally
                        called the Fifth Avenue, or the Gem City House, or the Palace Hotel. I
                        stopped at an inn some years since called the Palace, and I can truly say
                        that if it had ever been a palace it was very much run down when I visited
                        it.
                    Just as the fond parent of a white-eyed, two-legged freak of nature loves to
                        name his mentally-diluted son Napoleon, and for the same reason that a
                        prominent horse owner in Illinois last year socked my name on a tall,
                        buckskin-colored colt that did not resemble me, intellectually or
                        physically, a colt that did not know enough to go around a barbed-wire
                        fence, but sought to sift himself through it into an untimely grave, so this
                        man has named his sway-backed wigwam the Fifth Avenue Hotel.
                    It is different from the Fifth avenue in many ways. In the first place there
                        is not so much travel and business in its neighborhood. As I said before,
                        this is where two railroads fork. In fact that is the leading industry here.
                        The growth of the town is naturally slow, but it is a healthy growth. There
                        is nothing in the nature of dangerous or wild-cat speculation in the
                        advancement of this place, and while there has been no noticeable or rapid
                        advance in the  principal business, there has
                        been no falling off at all and these roads are forking as much today as they
                        did before the war, while the same three men who were present for the first
                        glad moment are still here to witness the operation.
                    Sometimes a train is derailed, as the papers call it, and two or three people
                        have to remain over as we did all night. It is at such a time that the Fifth
                        Avenue Hotel is the scene of great excitement. A large cod-fish, with a
                        broad and sunny smile and his bosom full of rock salt, is tied in the creek
                        to freshen and fit himself for the responsible position of floor manager of
                        the codfish ball.
                    A pale chambermaid, wearing a black jersey with large pores in it through
                        which she is gently percolating, now goes joyously up the stairs to make the
                        little post-office lock-box rooms look ten times worse than they ever did
                        before. She warbles a low refrain as she nimbly knocks loose the venerable
                        dust of centuries and sets it afloat throughout the rooms. All is bustle
                        about the house.
                    Especially the chambermaid.
                    We were put in the guests' chamber here. It has two atrophied beds
                        made up of pains and counterpanes.
                    This last remark conveys to the reader the presence of a light, joyous
                        feeling which is wholly assumed on my part.
                    The door of our room is full of holes where locks have been wrenched off in
                        order to let the coroner in. Last night I could imagine that I was in the
                        act of meeting, personally, the famous people who have tried to sleep here
                        and who moaned through the night and who died while waiting for the
                        dawn.
                    I have no doubt in the world but there is quite a good-sized delegation from
                        this hotel, of guests who hesitated about committing suicide, because they
                        feared to tread the red-hot sidewalks of perdition, but who became desperate
                        at last and resolved to take their chances, and they have never had any
                        cause to regret it.
                    
                    We washed our hands on doorknob soap, wiped them on a slippery elm
                        court-plaster, that had made quite a reputation for itself under the
                        nom-de-plume of "Towel," tried to warm ourselves at a
                        pocket inkstand stove, that gave out heat like a dark lantern and had a
                        deformed elbow at the back of it.
                    The chambermaid is very versatile, and waits on the table while not engaged
                        in agitating the overworked mattresses  and
                        puny pillows up-stairs. In this way she imparts the odor of fried pork to
                        the pillow-cases and kerosene to the pie.
                    She has a wild, nervous and apprehensive look in her eye as though she feared
                        that some herculean guest might seize her in his great strong arms and bear
                        her away to a justice of the peace and marry her. She certainly cannot fully
                        realize how thoroughly secure she is from such a calamity. She is just as
                        safe as she was forty years ago,  when she
                        promised her aged mother that she would never elope with any one.
                    Still, she is sociable at times and converses freely with me at table, as she
                        leans over my shoulder, pensively brushing the crumbs into my lap with a
                        general utility towel, which accompanies her in her various rambles through
                        the house, and she asks what we would rather have —" tea
                        or eggs?"
                    This afternoon we will pay our bill, in accordance with a life-long custom of
                        ours, and go away to permeate the busy haunts of men. It will be sad to tear
                        ourselves away from the Fifth Avenue Hotel at this place; still, there is no
                        great loss without some small gain, and at our next hotel we may not have to
                        chop our own wood and bring it up stairs when we want to rest. The landlord
                        of a hotel who goes away to a political meeting and leaves his guests to
                        chop their own wood, and then charges them full price for the rent of a
                        boisterous and tempest-tossed bed, will never endear himself to those with
                        whom he is thrown in contact.
                    We leave at 2:30 this afternoon, hoping that the two railroads may continue
                        to fork here just the same as though we had remained.
                
                
                
                    McFeeters' Fourth.
                    
                    
                        It was needless to say 'twas a glorious day,
                        And to boast of it all in that spread-eagle way
                        That our forefathers had since the hour of the birth
                        Of this most patriotic republic on earth!
                        But 'twas justice, of course, to admit that the sight
                        Of the old Stars-and-stripes was a thing of delight
                        In the eyes of a fellow, however he tried
                        To look on the day with a dignified pride
                        That meant not to brook any turbulent glee,
                        Or riotous flourish of loud jubilee!
                    
                    
                        So argued McFeeters, all grim and severe,
                        Who the long night before, with a feeling of fear,
                        
                        Had slumbered but fitfully, hearing the swish
                        Of the sky-rocket over his roof, with a wish
                        That the urchin who fired it were fast to the end
                        Of the stick to forever and ever ascend;
                        Or to hopelesly ask why the boy with the horn
                        And its horrible havoc had ever been born!
                        Or to wish, in his wakefulness, staring aghast,
                        That this Fourth of July were as dead as the last!
                    
                    
                        So, yesterday morning, McFeeters arose,
                        With a fire in his eyes, and a cold in his nose,
                        And a gutteral voice in appropriate key
                        With a temper as gruff as a temper could be.
                        He growled at the servant he met on the stair,
                        Because he was whistling a national air,
                        And he growled at the maid on the balcony, who
                        Stood enrapt with the tune of "The Red White and
                            Blue"
                        That a band was discoursing like mad in the street,
                        With drumsticks that banged, and with cymbals that beat.
                    
                    
                        And he growled at his wife, as she buttoned his vest,
                        And applausively pinned a rosette on his breast
                        Of the national colors, and lured from his purse
                        Some change for the boys—for firecrackers—or
                            worse;
                        And she pointed with pride to a soldier in blue
                        In a frame on the wall, and the colors there, too;
                        And he felt, as he looked on the features, the glow
                        The painter found there twenty long years ago,
                        And a passionate thrill in his breast, as he felt
                        Instinctively round for the sword in his belt.
                    
                    
                        What was it that hung like a mist o'er the
                            room?—
                        The tumult without—and the music—the boom
                        Of the cannon—the blare of the bugle and
                            fife?—
                        No matter!—McFeeters was kissing his wife,
                        
                        And laughing and crying and waving his hat
                        Like a genuine soldier, and crazy, at that!
                        —But it's needless to say 'twas a
                            glorious day,
                        And to boast of it all in that spread-eagle way
                        That our forefathers have since the hour of birth
                        Of this most patriotic republic on earth!
                    
                
                
                
                    In a Box.
                    
                    
                        I saw them last night in a box at the play—
                        Old age and young youth side by side—
                        You might know by the glasses that pointed that way
                        That they were—a groom and a bride;
                        And you might have known, too, by the face of the groom,
                        
                        And the tilt of his head, and the grim
                        Little smile of his lip, he was proud to presume
                        That we men were all envying him.
                    
                    
                        Well, she was superb—an Elaine in the face,
                        A Godiva in figure and mien,
                        With the arm and the wrist of a Parian
                            "Grace,"
                        And the high-lifted brow of a queen;
                        But I thought, in the splendor of wealth and of pride,
                        And in all her young beauty might prize,
                        I should hardly be glad if she sat by my side
                        With that far-away look in her eyes.
                    
                
                
                
                    Seeking to Set the Public Right.
                    
                    WOULD like to make an explanation at this time which concerns me, of course,
                        more than any one else, and yet it ought to be made in the interests of
                        general justice, also. I refer to a recent article published in a Western
                        paper and handsomely illustrated in which, among others, I find the
                        foregoing picture of my residence:
                    The description which accompanies the cut, among other things, goes on to
                        state as follows: "The structure is elaborate, massive and
                        beautiful. It consists of three stories, basement and attic, and covers a
                        large area on the ground. It contains an elevator, electric bells,
                        steam-heating arrangements, baths, hot and cold, in every room, electric
                        lights, laundry, fire-escapes, &c. The grounds consist of at least
                        five acres, overlooking the river for several miles up and down, with fine
                        boating and a private fish-pond of two acres in extent, containing every
                        known variety of game fish. The grounds are finely laid out in handsome  drives and walks, and when finished the
                        establishment will be one of the most complete and beautiful in the
                        Northwest."
                    No one realizes more fully than I the great power of the press for good or
                        evil. Rightly used the newspaper can make or unmake men, and wrongly used it
                        can be even more sinister. I might say, knowing this as I do, I want to be
                        placed right before the people. The above is not a correct illustration or
                        description of my house, for several reasons. In the first place, it is
                        larger and more robust in appearance, and in the second place it has not the
                        same tout ensemble as my residence. My house is less
                        obtrusive and less arrogant in its demeanor than the foregoing and it has no
                        elevator in it.
                    My house is not the kind that seems to crave an elevator. An elevator in my
                        house would lose money. There is no popular clamor for one, and if I were to
                        put one in I would have to abolish the dining-room. It would also interfere
                        with the parlor.
                    I have learned recently that the correspondent who came here to write up this
                        matter visited the town while I was in the South, and as he could not find
                        me he was at the mercy of strangers. A young man who lives here and who is
                        just in the heyday of life, gleefully consented to show the correspondent my
                        new residence not yet completed. So they went over and examined the new
                        Oliver Wendell Holmes Hospital, which will be completed in June and which
                        is, of course, a handsome structure, but quite different from my house in
                        many particulars.
                    For instance, my residence is of a different school of architecture, being
                        rather on the Scandinavian order, while the foregoing has a tendency toward
                        the Ironic. The hospital belongs to a very recent school, as I may say,
                        while my residence, in its architectural methods and conception, goes back
                        to the time of the mound builders, a time when a Gothic  hole in the ground was considered the magnum
                            bonum and the scrumptuous thing in art. If the reader will go
                        around behind the above building and notice it carefully on the east side,
                        he will not discover a dried coonskin nailed to the rear breadths of the
                        wood-shed. That alone ought to convince an observing man that the house is
                        not mine. The coonskin regardant will always be found emblazoned on my arms,
                        together with a blue Goddess of Liberty and my name in green India ink.
                    
                    Above I give a rough sketch of my house. Of course I have idealized it
                        somewhat, but only in order to catch the eye of the keenly observant reader.
                        The front part of the house runs back to the time of Polypus the First,
                        while the L, which does not show in the drawing, runs back as far as the
                        cistern.
                    In closing, let me say that I am not finding fault with any one because the
                        above error has crept into the public prints, for it is really a pardonable
                        error, after all. Neither do I wish to be considered as striving to
                        eliminate my name from the columns of the press, for no one could be more
                             tickled than I am over a friendly notice
                        ot my arrival in town or a timely reference to my courteous bearing and
                        youthful appearance, but I want to see the Oliver Wendell Holmes Hospital
                        succeed, and so I come out in this way over my own signature and admit that
                        the building does not belong to me and that, so far as I am concerned, the
                        man who files a lien on it will simply fritter away his time.
                
                
                
                    A Dose't of Blues.
                    
                    
                        I' got no patience with blues at all!
                        And I ust to kindo talk
                        Aginst 'em, and claim, 'tel along last fall,
                        They was none in the fambly stock;
                        But a nephew of mine, from Eelinoy,
                        That visited us last year,
                        He kindo' convinct me different
                        While he was a-stayin' here.
                    
                    
                    
                        Frum ever'-which-way that blues is frum,
                        They'd tackle him ever' ways;
                        They'd come to him in the night, and come
                        On Sundys, and rainy days;
                        They'd tackle him in corn-plantin' time,
                        And in harvest, an airly fall,
                        But a dose't of blues in the wintertime
                        He 'lowed was the worst of all!
                    
                    
                        Said all diseases that ever he had—
                        The mumps, er the rheumatiz—
                        Er ever-other-day aigger's bad
                        Purt' nigh as anything is!—
                        Er a cyarbuncle, say, on the back of his neck,
                        Er a fellon on his thumb,—
                        But you keep the blues away frum him,
                        And all o'the rest could come!
                    
                    
                        And he'd moan, "They's nary a leaf
                            below!
                        Ner a spear o' grass in sight!
                        And the whole wood-pile's clean under snow!
                        And the days is dark as night!
                        And you can't go out—ner you can't stay
                            in—
                        Lay down—stand up—ner set!"
                        And a case o' reguller tyfoid blues
                        Would double him jest clean shet!
                    
                    
                        I writ his parents a postal-kyard
                        He could stay 'tel spring-time come;
                        And Aprile first, as I rickollect,
                        Was the day we shipped him home.
                        Most o' his relatives, sence then,
                        Has either give up, er quit,
                        Er jest died off, but I understand
                        
                            He's the same old color yit!
                    
                
                
                
                    Wanted, A Fox.
                    SLIPPERY ELMHURST, STATEN ISLAND, July 18, 1888.
                    To the Editor:
                    DEAR SIR: Could you inform a constant
                        reader of your valuable paper where he would be most likely to obtain a
                        good, durable, wild fox which could be used for hunting purposes on my
                        premises? I desire a fox that is a good roadster and yet not too
                        bloodthirsty. If I could secure one that would not bite, it would tickle me
                        most to death.
                    You know, perhaps, that I am of English origin. Some of the best and bluest
                        blood of the oldest and most decrepit families in England flows in my veins.
                        There is no better blood extant. We love the exhilarating sports of our
                        ancesters, and nothing thrills us through and through like the free chase
                        'cross country behind the fleeing fox. Joyously we gallop over the
                        sward behind the yelping pack, as we clearly scent high, low, jack and the
                        game.
                    My ancestors are haughty English people from Piscata-quis county, Maine. For
                        centuries, our rich, warm, red blood has been mellowed by the elderberry
                        wine and huckleberry juice of Moosehead lake: but now and then it will
                        assert itself and mantle in the broad and indestructible cheek of our race.
                        Ever and anon in our family you will notice the slender, triangular chest,
                        the broad and haughty sweep of abdomen, and the high, intellectual expanse
                        of pelvic bone, which denotes the true Englishman; proud,  high-spirited, soaked full of calm disdain,
                        wearing checked pantaloons, and a soft, flabby tourist 's hat that
                        has a how at both ends, so that a man can not get too drunk to put it on his
                        head wrong.
                    
                    I know that here in democratic America, where every man has to earn his
                        living or marry rich, people will scorn my high-born love of the fox-chase,
                        and speak in a slighting manner of my wild, wild yearn for the rush and
                        scamper of the hunt. By Jove, but it is joy indeed to gallop over the sward
                        and the cover, and the open land, the meet and the cucumber vines of the
                        Plebeian farmer, to run over the wife of the peasant and tramp her low,
                        coarse children into the rich mould, to " sick " the
                        hounds upon the rude rustic as he paris greens his potatoes, to pry open the
                        jaws of the pack and return to the open-eyed peasant the quivering seat of
                        his pantaloons, returning it to him not because it is lacking in its merit,
                        but because it is not available.
                    Ah, how the pulses thrill as we bound over the lea, out across the wold, anon
                        skimming the outskirts of the moor and going home with a stellated fracture
                        of the dura mater through which the gas is gently escaping.
                    Let others rave over the dreamy waltz and the false joys  of the skating rink, but give me the maddening yelp of the
                        pack in full cry as it chases the speckled two-year-old of the low born
                        rustic across the open and into the pond.
                    Let others sing of the zephyrs that fan the white sails of their swift-flying
                        yacht, but give me a wild gallop at the tail of my high-priced hounds and
                        six weeks at the hospital with a fractured rib and I am proud and happy. All
                        our family are that way. We do not care for industry for itself alone. We
                        are too proud ever to become slaves to habits of industry. We can labor or
                        we can let it alone.
                    This shows our superiority as a race. We have been that way for hundreds of
                        years. We could work in order to be sociable, but we would not allow it to
                        sap the foundations of our whole being.
                    I write, therefore, to learn, if possible, where I can get a good red or gray
                        fox that will come home nights. I had a fox last season for hunting
                        purposes, but he did not give satisfaction. He was constantly getting into
                        the pound. I do not want an animal of that kind. I want one that I shall
                        always know where I can put my hand upon him when I want to hunt.
                    Nothing can be more annoying than to be compelled to go to the pound and
                        redeem a fox, when a party is mounted and waiting to hunt him.
                    I do not care so much for the gait of a fox, whether he lopes, trots or
                        paces, so that his feet are sound and his wind good. I bought a light-red
                        fox two years ago that had given perfect satisfaction the previous year, but
                        when we got ready to hunt him he went lame in the off hind foot and crawled
                        under a hen house back of my estate, where he remained till the hunt was
                        over.
                    What I want is a young, flealess fox of the dark-red or iron-gray variety,
                        that I can depend upon as a good roadster; one that will come and eat out of
                        my hand and yearn to be loved.
                    
                    I would like also a tall, red horse with a sawed-off tail; one that can jump
                        a barbed wire fence without mussing it up with fragments of his rider. Any
                        one who may have such a horse or pipless fox will do well to communicate
                        with me in person or by letter, enclosing references. I may be found during
                        the summer months on my estate, spread out under a tree, engage in
                        thought.
                    E. FITZWILLIAM NYE.
                    
                    Slipperyelmhurst, Staten Island, N. Y.
                
                
                
                    SUTTERS CLAIM
                    
                    
                        IMITATED.
                        Say! you feller! You—
                        With that spade and the pick!—
                        What do you 'pose to do
                        On this side o' the crick?
                        Goin' to tackle this claim? Well I reckon
                        You'll let up agin purty quick!
                    
                    
                        No bluff, understand,
                        But the same has been tried,
                        And the claim never panned—
                        Or the fellers has lied,—
                        For they tell of a dozen that tried it,
                        And quit it most onsatisfied.
                    
                    
                    
                        The luck's dead agin it!—
                        The first man I see
                        That stuck a pick in it
                        Proved that thing to me,—
                        For he sorto took down, and got homesick,
                        And went back whar he'd orto' be!
                    
                    
                        Then others they worked it
                        Some—more or less,
                        But finally shirked it,
                        In grades of distress,—
                        With an eye out—a jaw or skull busted,
                        Or some sort o' seriousness.
                    
                    
                        The last one was plucky—
                        He wasn't afeerd,
                        And bragged he was "lucky,"
                        And said that "he'd heerd
                        A heep of bluff-talk," and swore awkard
                        He'd work any claim that he keered!
                    
                    
                        Don't you strike nary lick
                        With that pick till I'm through;—
                        This-here feller talked slick
                        And as peart-like as you!
                        And he says: "I'll abide here
                        As long as I please!"
                    
                    
                        But he didn't..........He died here—
                        And I'm his disease!
                    
                
                
                
                    Seeking to be Identified.
                    CHICAGO, Feb. 20, 1888.
                    
                    FINANCIAL circles here have been a good deal interested in
                        the discovery of a cipher which was recently adopted by a depositor and
                        which began to attract the attention at first of a gentleman employed in the
                        Clearing-House. He was telling me about it and showing me the vouchers or
                        duplicates of them.
                    It was several months ago that he first noticed on the back of a check
                        passing through the Clearing-House the following cipher, written in a
                        symmetrical, Gothic hand:
                    DEAR SIR: Herewith find payment for
                        last month's butter. It was hardly up to the average. Why do you
                        blonde your butter? Your butter last month tried to assume an effeminate
                        air, which certainly was not consistent 'with its great vigor. Is
                        it not possible that this butter is the brother to what we had the month
                        previous, and that it was exchanged for its sister by mistake? We have
                        generally liked your butter very much, but we will have to deal elsewhere if
                        you are going to encourage it in wearing a full beard. Yours truly, W.
                    Moneyed men all over Chicago and financial crypto-grammers came to read the
                        curious thing and to try and  work out its
                        bearing on trade. Everybody took a look at it and went away defeated. Even
                        the men who were engaged in trying to figure out the identity of the Snell
                        murderer, took a day off and tried their Waterbury thinkers on this problem.
                        In the midst of it all another check passed through the Clearing-House with
                        this cipher, in the same hand:
                            
                                
                                    SIR: Your bill for the past month is too
                                        much. You forget the eggs returned at the end of second
                                        week, for which you were to give me credit. The cook broke
                                        one of them by mistake, and then threw up the portfolio of
                                        pie-founder in our once joyous home. I will not dock you for
                                        loss of cook, but I cannot allow you for the eggs. How you
                                        succeed in dodging quarantine with eggs like that is a
                                        mystery to yours truly, W.
                                
                            
                        
                    Great excitement followed the discovery of this indorsement on a check for
                        $32.87. Everybody who knew anything about ciphering was called in to
                        consider it. A young man from a high school near here, who made a specialty
                        of mathematics and pimples, and who could readily tell how long a shadow a
                        nine-pound ground-hog would cast at 2 o'clock and 37 minutes P.M.,
                        on ground-hog day, if sunny, at the town of Fungus, Dak., provided latitude
                        and longitude and an irregular mass of red chalk be given to him, was
                        secured to jerk a few logarithms in the interests of trade. He came and
                        tried it for a few days, covered the interior of the Exposition Building
                        with figures and then went away.
                    The Pinkerton detectives laid aside their literary work on the great train
                        book, entitled "The Jerkwater Bank Robbery and Other Choice
                        Crimes," by the author of "How I Traced a Lame Man Through
                        Michigan and Other Felonies." They grappled with the cipher, and
                        several of them leaned up against something and thought for a long time, but
                        they could make neither head nor tail to it. Ignatius Donnelly took a
                        powerful dose of kumiss, and under its maddening influence sought to solve
                        the great  problem which threatened to engulf
                        the national surplus. All was in vain. Cowed and defeated, the able
                        conservators of coin, who require a man to be identified before he can draw
                        on his overshoes at sight, had to acknowledge if this thing continued it
                        threatened the destruction of the entire national fabric.
                    About this time I was calling at the First National Bank of Chicago, the
                        greatest bank, if I am not mistaken, in America. I saw the bonds securing
                        its issue of national currency the other day in Washington, and I am quite
                        sure the custodian told me it was the greatest of any bank in the Union.
                        Anyway, it was sufficient, so that I felt like doing my banking business
                        there whenever it became handy to do so.
                    I asked for a certificate of deposit for $2,000, and had the money to pay for
                        it, but I had to be identified. "Why," I said to the
                        receiving teller, "surely you don't require a man to be
                        identified when he deposits money, do you?"
                    "Yes, that's the ide."
                    "Well, isn't that a new twist on the crippled industries of
                        this country?"
                    "No; that's our rule. Hurry up, please, and don't
                        keep men waiting who have money and know how to do business."
                    "Well, I don't want to obstruct business, of course, but
                        suppose, for instance, I get myself identified by a man I know and a man you
                        know, and a man who can leve his business and come here for the delirious
                        joy of identifying me, and you admit that I am the man I claim to be,
                        corresponding as to description, age, sex, etc., with the man I advertise
                        myself to be, how would it be about your ability to identify yourself as the
                        man you claim to be? I go all over Chicago, visiting all the large
                        pork-packing houses in  search of a man I
                        know, and who is intimate with literary people like me, and finally we will
                        say I find one who knows me and who knows you, and whom you know, and who
                        can leave his leaf lard long enough to come here and identify me all right.
                        Can you identify yourself in such a way that when I put in my $2,000 you
                        will not loan it upon insufficient security as they did in Cincinnati the
                        other day, as soon as I go out of town?"
                    "Oh, we don't care especially whether you trade here or
                        not, so that you hurry up and let other people have a chance. Where you make
                        a mistake is in trying to rehearse a piece here instead of going out to
                        Lincoln Park or somewhere in a quiet part of the city. Our rules are that a
                        man who makes a deposit here must be identified.
                    "All right. Do you know Queen Victoria?"
                    "No, sir; I do not."
                    "Well, then, there is no use in disturbing her. Do you know any of
                        the other crowned heads?"
                    "No, Sir."
                    "Well, then, do you know President Cleveland, or any of the Cabinet,
                        or the Senate or members of the House?"
                    "No."
                    "That's it, you see. I move in one set and you in another.
                        What respectable people do you know?"
                    "I'll have to ask you to stand aside, I guess, and give
                        that string of people a chance. You have no right to take up my time in this
                        way. The rules of the bank are inflexible. We must know who you are, even
                        before we accept your deposit."
                    I then drew from my pocket a copy of the Sunday WORLD,
                        which contained a voluptuous picture of myself. Removing my hat and making a
                        court salaam by letting out four additional joints in my lithe and versatile
                        limbs, I asked if any further identification would be necessary.
                    Hastily closing the door to the vault and jerking the  combination, he said that would be satisfactory. I was then
                        permitted to deposit in the bank.
                    I do not know why I should always be regarded with suspicion wherever I go. I
                        do not present the appearance  of a man who is
                        steeped in crime, and yet when I put my trivial little two-gallon valise on
                        the seat of a depot waiting-room a big man with a red mustache comes to me
                        and hisses through his clinched teeth: "Take yer baggage off the
                        seat!!" It is so everywhere. I apologize for disturbing a ticket
                        agent long enough to sell me a ticket, and he tries to jump through a little
                        brass wicket and throttle me. Other  men come
                        in and say: "Give me a ticket for Bandoline, O., and be dam sudden
                        about it, too," and they get their ticket and go aboard the car and
                        get the best seat, while I am begging for the opportunity to buy a seat at
                        full rates and then ride in the wood box. I believe that common courtesy and
                             decency in America need protection. Go
                        into an hotel or a hotel, whichever suits the eyether and nyether readers of
                        these lines, and the commercial man who travels for a big sausage-casing
                        house in New York has the bridal chamber, while the meek and lowly minister
                        of the Gospel gets a wall-pocket room with a cot, a slippery-elm towel, a
                        cake of cast-iron soap, a disconnected bell, a view of the laundry, a tin
                        roof and $4 a day.
                    But I digress. I was speaking of the bank check cipher.  At the First National Bank I was shown another of these
                        remarkable indorsements. It read as follows:
                            
                                
                                    DEAR SIR. This will be
                                        your pay for chickens and other fowls received up to the
                                        first of the present month. Time is working wondrous changes
                                        in your chickens. They are not such chickens as we used to
                                        get of you before the war. They may be the same chickens,
                                        but oh! how changed by the lapse of time! How much more
                                        indestructible! How they have learned since then to defy the
                                        encroaching tooth of remorseless ages, or any other man! Why
                                        do you not have them tender like your squashes? I found a
                                        blue poker chip in your butter this week. What shall I
                                        credit myself for it? If you would try to work your butter
                                        more and your customers less it would be highly appreciated,
                                        especially by, yours truly W.
                                
                            
                        
                    Looking at the signature on the check itself, I found it to be that of Mrs.
                        James Wexford, of this city. Knowing Mr. Wexford, a wealthy and influential
                        publisher here, I asked him to-day if he knew anything about this matter. He
                        said that all he knew about it was that his wife had a separate bank
                        account, and had asked him several months ago what was the use of all the
                        blank space on the back of a check, and why it couldn't be used for
                        correspondence with the remittee. Mr. Wexford said he'd bet $500
                        that his wife had been using her checks that way, for he said he never knew
                        of a woman who could possibly pay postage on a note, remittance or anything
                        else unless every particle of the surface had been written over in a wild,
                        delirious, three-story hand. Later on I found that he was right about it.
                        His wife had been sassing the grocer and the butter-man on the back of her
                        checks. Thus ended the great bank mystery.
                    I will close this letter with a little incident, the story of which may not
                        be so startling, but it is true. It is a story of child faith. Johnny
                        Quinlan, of Evanston, has the most wonderful confidence in the efficacy of
                        prayer, but he thinks that prayer does not succeed unless it is accompanied
                        with considerable physical strength. He believes that adult prayer is a good
                        thing, but doubts the efficacy of juvenile prayer.
                    
                    He has wanted a Jersey cow for a good while and tried prayer, but it
                        didn't seem to get to the central office. Last week he went to a
                        neighbor who is a Christian and believer in the efficacy of prayer, also the
                        owner of a Jersey cow.
                    
                    "Do you believe that prayer will bring me a yaller Jersey
                        cow?" said Johnny.
                    "Why, yes, of course. Prayer will remove mountains. It will do
                        anything."
                    Well, then, suppose you give me the cow you've got and pray for
                        another one."
                
                END
            
        
        
            
            
                THINKS
                
                
                    Bill Nye.
                    A HUMOROUS BOOK,
                    Containing Some of the Brightest and Best of Bill Nye's Writings
                        is Now Ready.
                    FOR SALE By all Newsdealers and on Railroad Trains at 25 cents.
                    PUBLISHED BY THE DEARBORN PUBLISHING CO., 88 and 90 La Salle St.,
                        CHICAGO.
                
            
            
            
                THE FUNNIEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN. AN EPITOME OF WIT. 150
                    ILLUSTRATIONS.
                REMARKS BY BIIL NYE. (EDGAR W. NYE.)
                THE BOOK OF THE YEAR.
                BILL NYE is the most popular humorist living. His admirers are counted by the
                    millions, and his book is having an enormous sale. The simple announcement of
                    his name will prepare a welcome for the book everywhere.
                SOLD ONLY BY SUBSCRIPTION.
                Handsomely and Durably Bound. Copiously and Appropriately Illustrated.
                    AGENTS WANTED.
                CHICAGO: THE DEARBORN PUBLISHING CO., 88 & 90 LA SALLE STREET, 1888.
            
        
    
