
     ----CITATION---- 
        Dreiser, Theodore, 1871-1945. The Titan: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2331
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE TITAN
                
            
            
            
                A TRILOGY OF DESIRE
                1--THE FINANCIER
                2--THE TITAN
                3--* * * * * * * * *
            
            
            
                
                    THE TITAN
                
                BY
                    THEODORE DREISER AUTHOR OF "THE FINANCER," SISTER CARRIE," AND
                    JENNIE GERHARDT."
                
                    NEW YORK: JOHN LANE COMPANY
            	
                    LONDON: JOHN LANE, THE BODLEY HEAD
            	
                    TORONTO: BELL & COCKBURN
                    MCMXIV
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY JOHN LANE COMPANY
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE NEW CITY
                        1
                        
                    II. A RECONNOITER
                        6
                        
                    III. A CHICAGO EVENING
                        14
                        
                    IV. PETER LAUGHLIN & CO
                        21
                        
                    V. CONCERNING A WIFE
                            AND FAMILY
                        27
                        
                    VI. THE NEW
                            QUEEN OR THE HOME
                        31
                        
                    VII. CHICAGO GAS
                        39
                        
                    VIII. NOW THIS
                        IS FIGHTING
                        47
                        
                    IX. IN SEARCH
                        OF VICTORY
                        54
                        
                    X. A TEST
                        66
                        
                    XI. THE FRUITS
                        OF DARING
                        74
                        
                    XII. A NEW RETAINER
                        82
                        
                    XIII. THE DIE
                        IS CAST
                        93
                        
                    XIV. UNDERCURRENTS
                        106
                        
                    XV. A NEW AFFECTION
                        119
                        
                    XVI. A FATEFUL INTERLUDE
                        126
                        
                    XVII. AN OVERTURE
                        TO CONFLICT
                        136
                        
                    XVIII. THE CLASH
                        141
                        
                    XIX. "HELL HATH NO FURY-" 153
                        
                    XX. "MAN AND SUPERMAN" 160
                        
                    XXI. A MATTER OF TUNNELS
                        166
                        
                    XXII. STREET-RAILWAYS AT LAST
                        177
                        
                    XXIII. THE POWER OF
                            THE PRESS
                        185
                        
                    XXIV. THE COMING
                        OF STEPHANIE PLATOW
                        199
                        
                    XXV. AIRS FROM
                        THE ORIENT
                        208
                        
                    XXVI. LOVE AND WAR
                        214
                        
                    XXVII. A FINANCIER BEWITCHED
                        224
                        
                    XXVIII. THE EXPOSURE
                            OF STEPHANIE
                        231
                        
                    
                    XXIX. A FAMILY QUARREL
                        241
                        
                    XXX. OBSTACLES
                        251
                        
                    XXXI. UNTOWARD DISCLOSURES
                        259
                        
                    XXXII. A SUPPER PARTY
                        266
                        
                    XXXIII. MR. LYNDE TO THE RESCUE
                        276
                        
                    XXXIV. ENTER HOSMER HAND
                        284
                        
                    XXXV. A POLITICAL AGREEMENT
                        293
                        
                    XXXVI. AN ELECTION DRAWS NEAR
                        302
                        
                    XXXVII. AILEEN's REVENGE
                        308
                        
                    XXXVIII. AN HOUR
                        OF DEFEAT
                        320
                        
                    XXXIX. THE NEW
                            ADMINISTRATION
                        332
                        
                    XL. A TRIP TO LOUISVILLE
                        342
                        
                    XLI. THE DAUGHTER
                        OF MRS. FLEMING
                        351
                        
                    XLII. F. A. COWPERWOOD, GUARDIAN
                        356
                        
                    XLIII. THE PLANET MARS
                        363
                        
                    XLIV. FRANCHISE OBTAINED
                        373
                        
                    XLV. CHANGING HORIZONS
                        380
                        
                    XLVI. DEPTHS AND HEIGHTS
                        389
                        
                    XLVII. AMERICAN MATCH
                        398
                        
                    XLVIII. PANIC
                        410
                        
                    XLIX. MOUNT OLYMPUS
                        422
                        
                    L. A NEW YORK
                            MANSION
                        436
                        
                    LI. THE REVIVAL
                        OF HATTIE STARR
                        443
                        
                    LII. BEHIND THE
                            ARRAS
                        455
                        
                    LIII. A DECLARATION OF LOVE
                        461
                        
                    LIV. WANTEDFIFTY-YEAR FRANCHISES
                        470
                        
                    LV. COWPERWOOD AND THE GOVERNOR
                        482
                        
                    LVI. THE ORDEAL
                        OF BERENICE
                        491
                        
                    LVII. AILEEN's LAST CARD
                        499
                        
                    LVIII. A MARAUDER UPON THE COMMONWEALTH
                        511
                        
                    LIX. CAPITAL AND PUBLIC RIGHT
                        519
                        
                    LX. THE NET
                        526
                        
                    LXI THE CATACLYSM
                        532
                        
                    LXII. THE RECOMPENSE
                        548
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE TITAN
            
                THE TITAN
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE NEW CITY
                    WHEN Frank Algernon Cowperwood emerged from the Eastern District Penitentiary in
                        Philadelphia he realized that the old life he had lived in that city since boyhood was ended.
                        His youth was gone, and with it had been lost the great business prospects of his earlier
                        manhood. He must begin again.
                    It would be useless to repeat how a second panic following upon a tremendous failure
                        that of Jay Cooke & Co. had placed a second fortune in his hands. This restored wealth
                        softened him in some degree. Fate seemed to have his personal welfare in charge. He was sick of
                        the stockexchange, anyhow, as a means of livelihood, and now decided that he would leave it once
                        and for all. He would get in something else streetrailways, land deals, some of the boundless
                        opportunities of the far West. Philadelphia was no longer pleasing to him. Though now free and
                        rich, he was still a scandal to the pretenders, and the financial and social world was not
                        prepared to accept him. He must go his way alone, unaided, or only secretly so, while his
                        quondam friends watched his career from afar. So, thinking of this, he took the train one day,
                        his charming mistress, now only twentysix, coming to the station to see him off. He looked at
                        her quite tenderly, for she was the quintessence of a certain type of feminine beauty.
                    "By-by, dearie," he smiled, as the trainbell signaled the
                        approaching departure. "You and I will get out of this shortly. Don't grieve.
                        I'll be back in two or three  weeks, or
                        I'll send for you. I'd take you now, only I don't know how that
                        country is out there. We'll fix on some place, and then you watch me settle this
                        fortune question. We'll not live under a cloud always. I'll get a divorce, and
                        we'll marry, and things will come right with a bang. Money will do that."
                    He looked at her with his large, cool, penetrating eyes, and she clasped his cheeks
                        between her hands.
                    "Oh, Frank," she exclaimed, "I'll miss you so!
                        You're all I have."
                    "In two weeks," he smiled, as the train began to move,
                        "I'll wire or be back. Be good, sweet."
                    She followed him with adoring eyesa fool of love, a spoiled child, a family pet,
                        amorous, eager, affectionate, the type so strong a man would naturally likeshe tossed her pretty
                        red gold head and waved him a kiss. Then she walked away with rich, sinuous, healthy stridesthe
                        type that men turn to look after.
                    "That's herthat's that Butler girl," observed one
                        railroad clerk to another. "Gee! a man wouldn't want anything better than
                        that, would he?"
                    It was the spontaneous tribute that passion and envy invariably pay to health and
                        beauty. On that pivot swings the world.
                    Never in all his life until this trip had Cowperwood been farther west than
                        Pittsburgh. His amazing commercial adventures, brilliant as they were, had been almost
                        exclusively confined to the dull, staid world of Philadelphia, with its sweet refinement in
                        sections, its pretensions to American social supremacy, its cool arrogation of traditional
                        leadership in commercial life, its history, conservative wealth, unctuous respectability, and
                        all the tastes and avocations which these imply. He had, as he recalled, almost mastered that
                        pretty world and made its sacred precincts his own when the crash came. Practically he had been
                        admitted. Now he was an Ishmael, an exconvict, albeit a millionaire. But wait! The race is to
                        the swift, he said to himself over and over. Yes, and the battle is to the strong. He would test
                        whether the world would trample him under foot or no.
                    
                    Chicago, when it finally dawned on him, came with a rush on the second morning. He
                        had spent two nights in the gaudy Pullman then provideda car intended to make up for some of the
                        inconveniences of its arrangements by an over-elaboration of plush and tortured glasswhen the
                        first lone outposts of the prairie metropolis began to appear. The side-tracks along the
                        road-bed over which he was speeding became more and more numerous, the telegraph-Poles more and
                        more hung With arms and strung smoky-thick with wires. In the far distance, cityward, was, here
                        and there, a lone working-man's cottage, the home of some adventurous soul who had
                        planted his bare hut thus far out in order to reap the small but certain advantage which the
                        growth of the city would bring.
                    The land was flatas flat as a tablewith a waning growth of brown grass left over from
                        the previous year, and stirring faintly in the morning breeze. Underneath were signs of the new
                        greenthe New Year's flag of its disposition. For some reason a crystalline atmosphere
                        enfolded the distant hazy outlines of the city, holding the latter like a fly in amber and
                        giving it an artistic subtlety which touched ship, who had had his joy, training, and sorrow out
                        of the collection he had made and lost in Philadelphia, he appreciated almost every suggestion
                        of a delightful picture in nature.
                    The tracks, side by side, were becoming more and more numerous, Freight-cars were
                        assembled here by thousands from all parts of the countryyellow, red, blue, green, white.
                        (Chicago, he recalled, already had thirty railroads terminating here, as though it were the end
                        of the world.) The little low one and two story houses, quite new as to wood, were frequently
                        unpainted and already smokyin places grimy. At grade-crossings, where ambling streetcars and
                        wagons and muddy-wheeled buggies waited, he noted how flat the streets were, how unpaved, how
                        sidewalks went up and down rhythmicallyhere a flight of steps, a veritable platform before a
                        house, there a long stretch of boards laid flat on the mud of the prairie itself. What a city!
                        Presently a branch of the filthy, arrogant, self-sufficient little Chicago River came into view,
                        with its mass  of sputtering tugs, its black, oily
                        water, its tall, red, brown, and green grain-elevators, its immense black coal-pockets and
                        yellowish-brown lumber-yards.
                    Here was life; he saw it at a flash. Here was a seething city in the making. There
                        was something dynamic in the very air which appealed to his fancy. How different, for some
                        reason, from Philadelphia! That was a stirring city, too. He had thought it wonderful at one
                        time, quite a world; but this thing, while obviously infinitely worse, was better. It was more
                        youthful, more hopeful. In a flare of morning sunlight pouring between two coal-pockets, and
                        because the train had stopped to let a bridge swing half-dozen in either directionhe saw a group
                        of Irish stevedores idling on the bank of a lumber-yard whose wall skirted the water. Healthy
                        men they were, in blue or red shirt-sleeves, stout straps about their waists, short pipes in
                        their mouths, fine, hardy, nutty-brown specimens of humanity. Why were they so appealing, he
                        asked himself. into stirring artistic pictures. Why, it fairly sang! The world was young here.
                        Life was doing something new. Perhaps he had better not go on to the Northwest at all; he would
                        decide that question later.
                    In the mean time he had letters of introduction to distinguished Chicagoans, and
                        these he would present. He Wanted to talk to some bankers and grain and commission men. The
                        stock-exchange of Chicago interested him, for the intricacies of that business he knew backward
                        and for-Ward, and some great grain transaction had been made here.
                    The train finally rolled past the Shabby back houses into a long, shabbily covered
                        series of platformssheds having only roofsand amidst a clatter of trucks hauling trunks, and
                        engines belching steam, and passengers hurrying to and fro he made his way out into Canal Street
                        and hailed a waiting cabone of a long line of vehicles that bespoke a metropolitan spirit. He
                        had fixed on the Grand Pacific as the most important hotelthe one with the most social
                        significanceand thither he asked to be driven. On the way he studied these streets as in the
                        matter of art he would have studied a picture. The little  yellow, blue, green, white, and brown street-cars which he saw trundling here
                        and there, the tired, bony horses, jingling bells at their throats, touched him. They were
                        flimsy affairs, these cars, merely highly varnished kindling-wood with bits of polished brass
                        and glass stuck about them, but he realized what fortunes they portended if the city grew.
                        Street-cars, he knew, were his natural vocation. Even more than stock-brokerage, even more than
                        banking, even more than stock-organization he loved the thought of street-cars and the vast
                        manipulative life it suggested.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    A RECONNOITER
                    THE city of Chicago, with whose development the personality of Frank Algernon
                        Cowperwood was soon to be definitely linked! To whom may the laurels as laureate of this
                        Florence of the West yet fall? This singing flame of a city, this all America, this poet in
                        chaps and buckskin, this rude, raw Titan, this Burns of a city! By its shimmering lake it lay, a
                        king of shreds and patches, a maundering yokel with an epic in its mouth, a tramp, a hobo among
                        cities, with the grip of Caesar in its mind, the dramatic force of Euripides in its soul. A very
                        bard of a city this, singing of high deeds and high hopes, its heavy brogans buried deep in the
                        mire of circumstance. Take Athens, oh, Greece! Italy, do you keep Rome! This was the Babylon,
                        the Troy, the Nineveh of a younger day. Here came the gaping West and the hopeful East to see.
                        Here hungry men, raw from the shops and fields, idyls and romances in their minds, builded them
                        an empire crying glory in the mud.
                    From New York, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine had come a strange company, earnest,
                        patient, determined, unschooled in even the primer of refinement, hungry for something the
                        significance of which, when they had it, they could not even guess, anxious to be called great,
                        determined so to be without ever knowing how. Here came the dreamy gentleman of the South,
                        robbed of his patrimony; the hopeful student of Yale and Harvard and Princeton; the enfranchised
                        miner of California and the Rockies, his bags of gold and silver in his hands. Here was already
                        the bewildered foreigner, an alien speech confounding himmthe Hun, the Pole, the Swede, the
                        German, the Russianseeking his homely colonies, fearing his neighbor of another race.
                    
                    Here was the negro, the prostitute, the blackleg, the gambler, the romantic
                        adventurer par excellence. A city with but a handful of the
                        native-born; a city packed to the doors with all the riffraff of a thousand towns. Flaring were
                        the lights of the bagnio; tinkling the banjos, zithers, mandolins of the so-called gin-mill; all
                        the dreams and the brutality of the day seemed gathered to rejoice (and rejoice they did) in
                        this new-found wonder of a metropolitan life in the West.
                    The first prominent Chicagoan whom Cowperwood sought out was the president of the
                        Lake City National Bank, the largest financial organization in the city, with deposits of
                        Street, at Munroe, but a block or two from his hotel.
                    "Find out who that man is," ordered Mr. Judah Addison, the
                        president of the bank, on seeing him enter the president's private waiting-room.
                    Mr. Addison's office was so arranged with glass windows that he could, by
                        craning his neck, see all who entered his reception-room before they saw him, and he had been
                        struck by Cowperwood's face and force. Long familiarity with the banking world and with
                        great affairs generally had given a rich finish to the ease and force which the latter naturally
                        possessed. He looked strangely replete for a fine as those of a Newfoundland or a Collie and as
                        innocent and winsome. They were wonderful eyes, soft and spring-like at times, glowing with a
                        rich, human understanding with on the instant could harden and flash lightning. Deceptive eyes,
                        unreadable, but alluring alike to men and to women in all walks and conditions of life.
                    The secretary addressed came back with Cowperwood's letter of introduction,
                        and immediately Cowperwood followed.
                    Mr. Addison instinctively arosea thing he did not always do."I'm
                        pleased to meet you, Mr. Cowperwood," how I keep my windows here, so as to spy out the
                        country. Sit down. You wouldn't like an apple, would you?" He opened a
                        left-hand drawer, producing several polished red winesaps, one of which he held out. "I
                        always eat one about this time in the morning."
                    
                    "Thank you, no," replied Cowperwood, pleasantly, estimating as he
                        did so his host's temperament and mental caliber. "I never eat between meals,
                        but I appreciate your kindness. I am just passing through Chicago, and I thought I would present
                        this letter now rather than later. I thought you might tell me a little about the city from an
                        investment point of view."
                    As Cowperwood talked, Addison, a short, heavy, rubicund man with grayish-brown
                        sideburns extending to his ear-lobes and hard, bright, twinkling gray eyesa proud, happy,
                        self-sufficient manmunched his apple and contemplated Cowperwood. As is so often the case in
                        life, he frequently liked or disliked people on sight, and he prided himself on his judgment of
                        men. Almost foolishly, for one so conservative, he was taken with Cowperwooda man immensely his
                        superiornot because of the Drexel letter, which spoke of the latter's
                        "undoubted financial genius" and the advantage it would be to Chicago to have
                        him settle there, but because of the swimming wonder of his eyes. Cowperwood's
                        personality, while maintaining an unbroken outward reserve, breathed a tremendous humanness
                        which touched his fellow'banker. Both men were in their way walking enigmas, the
                        Philadelphian far the subtler of the two. Addison was ostensibly a church'member, a
                        model citizen; he represented a point of view to which Cowperwood would never have stooped. Both
                        men were ruthless after their fashion, avid of a physical life; but Addison was the weaker in
                        that he was still afraid-very much afraid-of what life might do to him. The man before him had
                        no sense of fear. Addison contributed judiciously to charity, subscribed outwardly to a dull
                        social routine, pretended to love his wife, of whom he was weary, and took his human pleasure
                        secretly. The man before him subscribed to nothing, refused to talk save to intimates, whom he
                        controlled spiritually, and did as he pleased.
                    "Why, I'll tell you, Mr. Cowperwood," Addison replied.
                        "We people out here in Chicago think so well of ourselves that sometimes we're
                        afraid to say all we think for fear of appearing a little extravagant. We're like the
                        youngest son in the family that knows he can lick all the others, but doesn't want to
                        do itnot just yet. We're not as handsome  as
                        we might bedid you ever see a growing boy that was?but we're absolutely sure that
                        we're going to be. Our pants and shoes and coat and hat get too small for us every six
                        months, and so we don't look very fashionable, but there are big, strong, hard muscles
                        and bones underneath, Mr. Cowperwood, as you'll discover when you get to looking
                        around. Then you won't mind the clothes so much."
                    Mr. Addison's round, frank eyes narrowed and hardened for a moment. A kind
                        of metallic hardness came into his voice. Cowperwood could see that he was honestly enamoured of
                        his adopted city. Chicago was his most beloved mistress. A moment later the flesh about his eyes
                        crinkled, his mouth softened, and he smiled. "I'll be glad to tell you
                        anything I can," he went on. "There are a lot of interesting things to
                        tell."
                    Cowperwood beamed back on him encouragingly. He inquired after the condition of one
                        industry and another, one trade or profession and another. This was somewhat different from the
                        atmosphere which prevailed in Philadelphiamore breezy and generous. The tendency to expatiate
                        and make much of local advantages was Western. He liked it, however, as one as one aspect of
                        life, whether he chose to share in it or not. It was favorable to his own future. He had a
                        prison record to live down; a wife and two children to get rid ofin the legal sense, at least
                        (he had no desire to rid himself of financial obligation toward them). It would take some such
                        loose, enthusiastic Western attitude to forgive in him the strength and freedom with which he
                        ignored and refused to accept for himself current convention. I
                            satisfy myself was his private law, but so to do he must assuage and control the
                        prejudices of other men. He felt that this banker, while not putty in his hands, was inclined to
                        a strong and useful friendship.
                    "My impressions of the city are entirely favorable, Mr. Addison,"
                        he said, after a time, though he inwardly admitted to himself that this was not entirely true;
                        he was not sure whether he could bring himself ultimately to live in so excavated and scaffolded
                        a world as this or not. "I only saw a portion of it coming in on the train. I like the
                        snap of things. I believe Chicago has a future."
                    
                    "You came over the Fort Wayne, I presume," replied Addison,
                        loftily. You saw the worst section. You must let me show you some of the best parts. By the way,
                        where are you staying?"
                    "At the Grand Pacific."
                    "How long will you be here?"
                    "Not more than a day or two."
                    "Let me see," and Mr. Addison drew out his watch.
                    I suppose you wouldn't mind meeting a few of our leading League Club where
                        we drop in now and then. If you'd care to do so, I'd like to have you come
                        along with me at one. We're sure to find a few of themsome of our lawyers, business
                        men, and judges.
                    "That will be fine, said the Philadelphian, simply. people I want to meet in
                        between, and"he arose and looked at his own watch-" I'll find the
                        Union Club. Where is the office of Arneel & Co.?
                    At the mention of the great beef-packer, who was one of the bank's heaviest
                        depositors, Addison stirred slightly with approval. This young man, at least eight years his
                        junior, looked to him like a future grand seigneur of finance.
                    At the Union Club, at this noontime luncheon, after talking with the portly,
                        conservative, aggressive Arneel and the shrewd director of the stockexchange, Cowperwood met a
                        varied company of men ranging in age from thirty-live to sixty-five gathered about the board in
                        a private dining-room of heavily carved black walnut, with pictures of elder citizens of Chicago
                        on the walls and an attempt at artistry in stained glass in the windows. There were short and
                        long men, lean and stout, dark and blond men, with eyes and jaws which varied from those of the
                        tiger, lynx, and bear to those of the fox, the tolerant mastiff, and the surly bulldog. There
                        were no weaklings in this selected company.
                    Mr. Arneel and Mr. Addison Cowperwood approved of highly as shrewd, concentrated men.
                        Another who interested him was Anson Merrill, a small, polite, recherch$eA soul, suggesting mansions and footmen and remote luxury generally,
                         who was pointed out by Addison as the famous
                        dry-goods prince of that name, quite the leading merchant, in the retail and wholesale sense, in
                        Chicago.
                    Still another was a Mr. Rambaud, pioneer railroad man, to whom Addison, smiling
                        jocosely, observed: "Mr. Cowperwood is on from Philadelphia, Mr. Rambaud, trying to
                        find out whether he wants to lose any money out here. Can't you sell him some of that
                        bad land you have up in the Northwest?"
                    Rambauda spare, pale, black-bearded man of much force and exactness, dressed, as
                        Cowperwood observed, in much better taste than some of the otherslooked at Cowperwood shrewdly
                        but in a gentlemanly, retiring way, with a gracious, enigmatic smile. He caught a glance in
                        return which he could not possibly forget. The eyes of Cowperwood said more than any words ever
                        could. Instead of jesting faintly Mr. Rambaud decided to explain some things about the
                        Northwest. Perhaps this Philadelphian might be interested.
                    To a man who has gone through a great life struggle in one metropolis and tested all
                        the phases of human duplicity decency, sympathy, and chicanery in the controlling group of men
                        that one invariably finds in every American city at least the temperament and significance of
                        another group in another city is not so much, and yet it is. Long since Cowperwood had parted
                        company with the idea that humanity at any angle or under any circumstances, climatic or
                        otherwise, is in any way different To him the most noteworthy characteristic of the human race
                        was that it was strangely chemic, being anything or nothing, as the hour and the condition
                        afforded. In his leisure momentsthose free from practical calculation, which were not manyhe
                        often speculated as to what life really was. If he had not been a great financier and, above
                        all, a marvelous organizer he might have become a highly individualistic philosophera calling
                        which, if he had thought anything about it at all at this time, would have seemed rather
                        trivial. His business as he saw it was with the material facts of life, or, rather, with those
                        third and fourth degree theorems and syllogisms which control material things and so represent
                        wealth. He was hop to deal with the great general needs of the Middle  Westto seize upon, if he might, certain well-springs of wealth and
                        power and rise to recognized authority. In his morning talks he had learned of the extent and
                        character of the stock-yards' enterprises, of the great railroad and ship interests, of
                        the tremendous rising importance of real estate, grain speculation, the hotel business, the
                        hardware business. He had learned of universal manufacturing companiesone that made cars,
                        another elevators, another binders, another windmills, another windmills, another engines.
                        Apparently, any new industry seemed to do well in Chicago. In his talk with the one director of
                        the Board of Trade to whom he had learned that few, if any, local stocks were dealt in
                        on'change Wheat, corn, and grains of all kinds were principally speculated in. The big
                        stocks of the East were gambled in by way of leased wires on the New York Stock Exchangenot
                        otherwise.
                    As he looked at these men, all pleasantly civil, all general in their remarks, each
                        safely keeping his vast plans under his vest, Cowperwood wondered how he would fare in this
                        community. There were such difficult things ahead of him to do. No one of these men, all of whom
                        were in their commercial-social way agreeable, knew that he had only recently been in the
                        penitentiary. How much difference would that make in their attitude? No one of them knew that,
                        although he was married and had two children, he was planning to divorce his wife and marry the
                        girl who had appropriated to herself the role which his wife had once played.
                    "Are you seriously contemplating looking into the Northwest?" asked
                        Mr. Rambaud, interestedly, toward the close of the luncheon.
                    "That is my present plan after I finish here. I thought I'd take a
                        short run up there."
                    "Let me put you in touch with an interesting party that is going as far as
                        Fargo and Duluth. There is a private car leaving Thursday, most of them citizens of Chicago, but
                        some Easterners. I would be glad to have you join us. I am going as far as
                        Minneapolis."
                    Cowperwood thanked him and accepted. A long conversation followed about the
                        Northwest, its timber, wheat, land sales, cattle, and possible manufacturing plants.  What Fargo, Minneapolis, and Duluth were to be
                        civically and financially were the chief topics of conversation. Naturally, Mr. Rambaud, having
                        under his Naturally, Mr. Rambaud, having his direction vast railroad lines which penetrated this
                        region, was confident of the future of it. Cowperwood gathered it all, almost by instinct. Gas,
                        street-railways, land speculations, banks, wherever located, were his chief thoughts.
                    Finally he left the club to keep his other appointments, but something of his
                        personality remained behind him. Mr. Addison and Mr. Rambaud, among others, were sincerely
                        convinced that he was one of the most interesting men they had met in years. And he scarcely had
                        said anything at alljust listened.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    A CHICAGO EVENING
                    AFTER his first visit to the bank over which Addison presided, and an informal dinner
                        at the latter's home, Cowperwood had decided that he did not care to sail under any
                        false colors so far as Addison was concerned. He was too influential and well connected.
                        Besides, Cowperwood liked him too much. Seeing that the man's leaning toward him was
                        strong, in reality a fascination, he made an early morning call a day or two after he had
                        returned from Fargo, whither he had gone at Mr. Rambaud's suggestion, on his way back
                        to Philadelphia, determined to volunteer a smooth presentation of his earlier misfortunes, and
                        trust to Addison's interest to make him view the matter in a kindly light. He told him
                        the whole story of how he had been convicted of technical embezzlement in Philadelphia and had
                        served out his term in the Eastern Penitentiary. He also mentioned his divorce and his intention
                        of marrying again.
                    Addison, who was the weaker man of the two and yet forceful in his own way, admired
                        this courageous stand on Cowperwood's part. It was a braver thing than he himself could
                        or would have achieved. It appealed to his sense of the dramatic. Here was a man who apparently
                        had been dragged down to the very bottom of things, his face forced in the mire, and now he was
                        coming up again strong, hopeful, urgent. The banker knew many highly respected men in Chicago
                        whose early careers, as he was well aware, would not bear too close an inspection, but nothing
                        was thought of that. Some of them were in society, some not, but all of them were powerful. Why
                        should not Cowper'wood be allowed to begin all over? He looked at him  steadily, at his eyes, at his stocky body, at his
                        smooth, handsome, mustached face. Then he held out his hand.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood," he said, finally, trying to shape his words
                        appropriately, "I needn't say that I am pleased with this interesting
                        confession. It appeals to me. I'm glad any time. I decided the day I saw you walking
                        into that vestibule that you were an exceptional man; now I know it. You needn't
                        apologize to me. I haven't lived in this world fifty years and more without having my
                        eye-teeth cut. You're welcome to the courtesies of this bank and of my house as long as
                        you care to avail yourself of them. We'll cut our clothes as circumstances dictate in
                        the future. I'd like to see you come to Chicago, solely because I like you personally.
                        If you decide to settle here I'm sure I can be of service to you and you to me.
                        Don't think anything more about it; I sha'n't ever say anything one
                        way or another. You have your own battle to fight, and I wish you luck. You'll get all
                        the aid from me I can honestly give you. Just forget that you told me, and when you get your
                        matrimonial affairs straightened out bring your wife out to see us."
                    With these things completed Cowperwood took the train back to Philadelphia.
                    "Aileen," he said, when these two met againshe had come to the
                        train to meet him"I think the West is the answer for us. I went up to Fargo and looked
                        around up there, but I don't believe we want to go that far. There's nothing
                        but prairie-grass and Indians out in that country. How'd you like to live in a board
                        shanty, Aileen," he asked, banteringly, "with nothing but fried rattlesnakes
                        and prairie-dogs for breakfast? Do you think you could stand that?"
                    "Yes," she replied, gaily, hugging his arm, for they had entered a
                        closed carriage; "I could stand it if you could. I'd go anywhere with you,
                        Frank. I'd get me a nice Indian dress with leather and beads all over it and a feather
                        hat like they wear, and"
                    "There you go! Certainly! Pretty clothes first of all in a miner's
                        shack. That's the way."
                    
                    "You wouldn't love me long if I didn't put pretty clothes
                        first," she replied, spiritedly. "Oh, I'm so glad to get you
                        back!"
                    "The trouble is," he went on, "that that country up there
                        isn't as promising as Chicago. I think we're destined to live in Chicago. I
                        made an investment in Fargo, and we'll have to go up there from time to time, but
                        we'll eventually locate in Chicago. I don't want to go out there alone again.
                        It isn't pleasant for me." He squeezed her hand. "If we
                        can't arrange this thing at once I'll just have to introduce you as my wife
                        for the present."
                    "You haven't heard anything more from Mr. Steger?" she put
                        in. She was thinking of Steger's efforts to get Mrs. Cowperwood to grant him a divorce.
                    "Not a word."
                    "Isn't it too bad?" she sighed.
                    "Well, don't grieve. Things might be worse."
                    He was thinking of his days in the penitentiary, and so was she. After commenting on
                        the character of Chicago he decided with her that so soon as conditions permitted they would
                        remove themselves to the Western city.
                    It would be pointless to do more than roughly sketch the period of three years during
                        which the various changes which saw the complete elimination of Cowperwood from Philadelphia and
                        his introduction into Chicago took place. For a time there were merely journeys to and fro, at
                        first more especially to Chicago, then to Fargo, where his transported secretary, Walter
                        Whelpley, was managing under his direction the construction of Fargo business blocks, a short
                        street-car line, and a fair-ground. This interesting venture bore the title of the Fargo
                        Construction and Transportation Company, of which Frank A. Cowperwood was president. His
                        Philadelphia lawyer, Mr. Harper Steger, was for the time being general master of contracts.
                    For another short period he might have been found living at the Tremont in Chicago,
                        avoiding for the time being, because of Aileen's company, anything more than a nodding
                        contact with the important men he had first met, while he looked quietly into the matter of a
                        Chicago brokerage arrangementa partnership with some established broker who, without too much
                        personal ambition, would bring him  a knowledge of
                        Chicago Stock Exchange affairs, personages, and Chicago ventures, On one occasion he took Aileen
                        with him to Fargo, where with a haughty, bored insouciance she surveyed the state of the growing
                        city.
                    "Oh, Frank!" she exclaimed, when she saw the plain, wooden,
                        four-story hotel, the long, unpleasing business street, with its motley collection of frame and
                        brick stores, the gaping stretches of houses, facing in most directions unpaved streets. Aileen
                        in her tailored spick-and-spanness, her self-conscious vigor, vanity, and tendency to
                        over-ornament, was a strange contrast to the rugged self-effacement and indifference to personal
                        charm which characterized most of the men and women of this new metropolis. You didn't
                        seriously think of coming out here to live, did you?
                    She was wondering where her chance for social exchange would come inher opportunity
                        to shine. Suppose her Frank were to be very rich; suppose he did make very much moneymuch more
                        than he had ever had even in the pastwhat good would it do her here? In Philadelphia, before his
                        failure, before she had been suspected of the secret liaison with him, he had been beginning (at
                        least) to entertain in a very pretentious way. If she had been his wife then she might have
                        stepped smartly into Philadelphia society. Out here, good gracious! She turned up her pretty
                        nose in disgust. "What an awful place!" was her one comment at this most
                        stirring of Western boom towns.
                    When it came to Chicago, however, and its swirling, increasing life, Aileen was much
                        interested. Between attending to many financial matters Cowperwood saw to it that she was not
                        left alone. He asked her to shop in the local stores and tell him about them; and this she did,
                        driving around in an open carriage, attractively arrayed, a great brown hat emphasizing her
                        pink-and-white complexion and red-gold hair. On different afternoons of their stay he took her
                        to drive over the principal streets. When Aileen as permitted for the first time to see the
                        spacious beauty nd richness of Prairie Avenue, the North Shore Drive, Michigan Avenue, and the
                        new mansions on Ashland Boulevard, set in their grassy spaces, the spirit, aspirations, hope,
                        tang of the future Chicago began to work in her blood as it had in Cowperwood's. All of
                        these rich  homes were so very new. The great people
                        of Chicago were all newly rich like themselves. She forgot that as yet she was not
                        Cowperwood's wife; she felt herself truly to be so. The streets, set in most instances
                        with a pleasing creamish-brown flagging, lined with young, newly planted trees, the lawns sown
                        to smooth green grass, the windows of the houses trimmed with bright awnings and hung with
                        intricate lace, blowing in a June breeze, the roadways a gray, gritty macadamall these things
                        touched her fancy. On one drive they skirted the lake on the North Shore, and Aileen,
                        contemplating the chalky, bluish-green waters, the distant sails, the gulls, and then the new
                        bright homes, reflected that in all certitude she would some day be the mistress of one of these
                        splendid mansions. How haughtily she would carry herself; how she would dress! They would have a
                        splendid house, much finer, no doubt, than Frank's old one in Philadelphia, with a
                        great ball-room and dining-room where she could give dances and dinners, and where Frank and she
                        would receive as the peers of these Chicago rich people.
                    "Do you suppose we will ever have a house as fine as one of these,
                        Frank?" she asked him, longingly.
                    "I'll tell you what my plan is," he said. "If you
                        like this Michigan Avenue section we'll buy a piece of property out here now and hold
                        it. Just as soon as I make the right connections here and see what I am going to do
                        we'll build a housesomething really nicedon't worry. I want to get this
                        divorce matter settled, and then we'll begin. Meanwhile, if we have to come here,
                        we'd better live rather quietly. Don't you think so?"
                    It was now between five and six, that richest portion of a summer day. It had been
                        very warm, but was now cooling, the shade of the western building-line shadowing the roadway, a
                        moted, wine-like air filling the street. As far as the eye could see were carriages, the one
                        great social diversion of Chicago, because there was otherwise so little opportunity for many to
                        show that they had means. The social forces were not as yet clear or harmonious. Jingling
                        harness of nickel, silver, and even plated gold were the sign manual of social hope, if not of
                        achievement. Here sped homeward from the cityfrom office and manufactory  along this one exceptional southern highway, the Via Appia of the
                        South Side, all the urgent aspirants to notable fortunes. Men of wealth who had met only
                        casually in trade here nodded to each other. Smart daughters, society-bred sons, handsome wives
                        came down-town in traps, Victorias, carriages, and vehicles of the latest design to drive home
                        their trade-weary fathers or brothers, relatives or friends. The air was gay with a social hope,
                        a promise of youth and affection, and that fine flush of material life that recreates itself in
                        delight. Lithe, handsome, well-bred animals, singly and in jingling pairs, paced each other down
                        the long, wide, grass-lined street, its fine homes agleam with a rich, complaisant materiality.
                    "Oh!" exclaimed Aileen, all at once, seeing the vigorous, forceful
                        men, the handsome matrons, and young women and boys, the nodding and the bowing, feeling a touch
                        of the romance and wonder of it all. "I should like to live in Chicago. I believe
                        it's nicer than Philadelphia."
                    Cowperwood, who had fallen so low there, despite his immense capacity, set his teeth
                        in two even rows. His handsome mustache seemed at this moment to have an especially defiant
                        curl. The pair he was driving was physically perfect, lean and nervous, with spoiled, petted
                        faces. He could not endure poor horse-flesh. He drove as only a horse-lover can, his body bolt
                        upright, his own energy and temperament animating his animals. Aileen sat beside him, very
                        proud, consciously erect.
                    "Isn't she beautiful?" some of the women observed, as they
                        passed, going north. "What a stunning young woman!" thought or said the men.
                    "Did you see her?" asked a young brother of his sister.
                    "Never mind, Aileen," commented Cowperwood, with that iron
                        determination that brooks no defeat. "We will be a part of this. Don't fret.
                        You will have everything you want in Chicago, and more besides."
                    There was tingling over his fingers, into the reins, into the horses, a mysterious
                        vibrating current that was his chemical product, the off-giving of his spirit battery that made
                        his hired horses prance like children. They chafed and tossed their heads and snorted.
                    Aileen was fairly bursting with hope and vanity and  longing. Oh, to be Mrs. Frank Algernon Cowperwood here in Chicago, to have a
                        splendid mansion, to have her cards of invitation practically commands which might not be
                        ignored!
                    "Oh, dear!" she sighed to herself, mentally. "If only it
                        were all truenow."
                    It is thus that life at its topmost toss irks and pains. Beyond is ever the
                        unattainable, the lure of the infinite with its infinite ache.
                    
                        "Oh, life! oh, youth! oh, hope! oh, years!
                        Oh pain-winged fancy, beating forth with fears."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    PETER LAUGHLIN & CO.
                    THE partnership which Cowperwood eventually made with an old-time Board of Trade
                        operator, Peter Laughlin, was eminently to his satisfaction. Laughlin was a tall, gaunt
                        speculator who had spent most of his living days in Chicago, having come there as a boy from
                        western Missouri. He was a typical Chicago Board of Trade operator of the old school, having an
                        Andrew Jacksonish countenance, and a Henry ClayDavy Crockett"Long John"
                        Wentworth build of body.
                    Cowperwood from his youth up had had a curious interest in quaint characters, and he
                        was interesting to them; they "took" to him. He could, if he chose to take the
                        trouble, fit himself in with the odd psychology of almost any individual. In his early
                        peregrinations in La Salle Street he inquired after clever traders on 'change, and then
                        gave them one small commission after another in order to get acquainted. Thus he stumbled one
                        morning on old Peter Laughlin, wheat and corn trader, who had an office in La Salle Street near
                        Madison, and who did a modest business gambling for himself and others in grain and Eastern
                        railway shares. Laughlin was a shrewd, canny American, originally, perhaps, of Scotch
                        extraction, who had all the traditional American blemishes of uncouthness, tobacco-chewing,
                        profanity, and other small vices. Cowperwood could tell from looking at him that he must have a
                        fund of information concerning every current Chicagoan of importance, and this fact alone was
                        certain to be of value. Then the old man was direct, plain-spoken, simple-appearing, and wholly
                        unpretentiousqualities which Cowperwood deemed invaluable.
                    Once or twice in the last three years Laughlin had lost  heavily on private "corners" that he had attempted to
                        engineer, and the general feeling was that he was now becoming cautious, or, in other words,
                        afraid. "Just the man," Cowperwood thought. So one morning he called upon
                        Laughlin, intending to open a small account with him.
                    "Henry," he heard the old man say, as he entered Laughlin'
                        fair-sized but rather dusty office, to a young, preternaturally solemn-looking clerk, a fit
                        assistant for Peter Laughlin, "git me them there Pittsburg and Lake Erie sheers, will
                        you?" Seeing Cowperwood waiting, he added, "What kin I do for ye?"
                    Cowperwood smiled. "So he calls them 'sheers,' does
                        he?" he thought. "Good! I think I'll like him."
                    He introduced himself as coming from Philadelphia, and went on to say that he was
                        interested in various Chicago ventures, inclined to invest in any good stock which would rise,
                        and particularly desirous to buy into some corporationpublic utility preferredwhich would be
                        certain to grow with the expansion of the city.
                    Old Laughlin, who was now all of sixty years of age, owned a seat on the Board, and
                        was worth in the neighborhood of two hundred thousand dollars, looked at Cowperwood quizzically.
                    "Well, now, if you'd 'a' come along here ten or
                        fifteen years ago you might 'a' got in on the ground floor of a lot of
                        things," he observed. "There was these here gas companies, now, that them
                        Otway and Apperson boys got in on, and then all these here street-railways. Why, I'm
                        the feller that told Eddie Parkinson what a fine thing he could make out of it if he would go
                        and organize that North State Street line. He promised me a bunch of sheers if he ever worked it
                        out, but he never give 'em to me. I didn't expect him to, though," he
                        added, wisely, and with a glint. "I'm too old a trader for that. He's
                        out of it now, anyway. That Michaels-Kennelly crowd skinned him. Yep, if you'd
                        'a' been here ten or fifteen years ago you might 'a' got in
                        on that. 'Tain't no use a-thinkin' about that, though, any more. Them
                        sheers is sellin' fer clost onto a hundred and sixty."
                    Cowperwood smiled. "Well, Mr. Laughlin," he observed,
                        "your must have been on 'change a long time here.
                    
                    You seem to know a good deal of what has gone on in the past."
                    Yep, ever since 1852," replied the old man. He had a thick growth of
                        upstanding hair looking not unlike a rooster's comb, a long and what threatened
                        eventually to become a Punch-and-Judy chin, a slightly aquiline nose, high cheek-bones, and
                        hollow, brown-skinned cheeks. His eyes were as clear and sharp as those of a lynx.
                    "To tell you the truth, Mr. Laughlin," went on Cowperwood,
                        "what I'm really out here in Chicago for is to find a man with whom I can go
                        into partnership in the brokerage business. Now I'm in the banking and brokerage
                        business myself in the East. I have a firm in Philadelphia and a seat on both the New York and
                        Philadelphia exchanges. I have some affairs in Fargo also. Any trade agency can tell you about
                        me. You have a Board of Trade seat here, and no doubt you do some New York and Philadelphia
                        exchange business. The new firm, if you would go in with me, could handle it all direct.
                        I'm a rather strong outside man myself. I'm thinking of locating permanently
                        in Chicago. What would you say now to going into business with me? Do you think we could get
                        along in the same office space?"
                    Cowperwood had a way, when he wanted to be pleasant, of beating the fingers of his
                        two hands together, finger for finger, tip for tip. He also smiled at the same timeor, rather,
                        beamedhis eyes glowing with a warm, magnetic, seemingly affectionate light.
                    As it happened, old Peter Laughlin had arrived at that psychological moment when he
                        was wishing that some such opportunity as this might appear and be available. He was a lonely
                        man, never having been able to bring himself to trust his peculiar temperament in the hands of
                        any woman. As a matter or tact, he had never understood women at all, his relations being
                        confined to those sad immoralities of the cheapest character which only moneygrudgingly given,
                        at thatcould buy. He lived in three small rooms in West Harrison Street, near Throup, where he
                        cooked his own meals at times. His one companion was a small spaniel, simple and affectionate, a
                        she dog, Jennie by name, with whom he slept. Jennie was a docile, loving  companion, waiting for him patiently by day in his office until he was
                        ready to go home at night. He talked to this spaniel quite as he would to a human being (even
                        more intimately, perhaps), taking the dog's glances, tail-waggings, and general
                        movements for answer. In the morning when he arose, which was often as early as half past four,
                        or even fourhe was a brief sleeperhe would begin by pulling on his trousers (he seldom bathed
                        any more except at 2 down-town barber shop) and talking to Jennie.
                    "Git up, now, Jinnie," he would say. "It's time
                        to git up. We've got to make our coffee now and git some breakfast. I can see yuh,
                        lyin' there, pertendin' to be asleep. Come on, now! You've had sleep
                        enough. You've been sleepin' as long as I have."
                    Jennie would be watching him out of the corner of one loving eye, her tail
                        tap-tapping on the bed, her free ear going up and down.
                    When he was fully dressed, his face and hands washed, his old string tie pulled
                        around into a loose and convenient knot, his hair brushed upward, Jennie would get up and jump
                        demonstratively about, as much as to say, "You see how prompt I am."
                    "That's the way," old Laughlin would comment.
                        "Allers last. Yuh never git up first, do yuh, Jinnie? Allers let yer old man do that,
                        don't you?"
                    On bitter days, when the car-wheels squeaked and one's ears and fingers
                        seemed to be in danger of freezing, old Laughlin, arrayed in a heavy, dusty greatcoat of ancient
                        vintage and a square hat, would carry Jennie down-town in a greenish-black bag along with some
                        of his beloved "sheers" which he was meditating on. Only then could he take
                        Jennie in the cars. On other days they would walk, for he liked exercise. He would get to his
                        office as early as seven-thirty or eight, though business did not usually begin until after
                        nine, and remain until four-thirty or five, reading the papers or calculating during the hours
                        when there were no customers. Then he would take Jennie and go for a walk or to call on some
                        business acquaintance. His home room, the newspapers, the floor of the exchange, his offices,
                        and the streets were his only resources. He cared nothing for plays, books, pictures, musicand
                        for women only in  his one-angled, mentally
                        impoverished way. His limitations were so marked that to a lover of character like Cowperwood he
                        was fascinatingbut Cowperwood only used character. He never idled over it long artistically.
                    As Cowperwood suspected, what old Laughlin did not know about Chicago financial
                        conditions, deals, opportunities, and individuals was scarcely worth knowing. Being only a
                        trader by instinct, neither an organizer nor an executive, he had never been able to make any
                        great constructive use of his knowledge. His gains and his losses he took with reasonable
                        equanimity, exclaiming over and over, when he lost: "Shucks! I hadn't orter
                        have done that," and snapping his fingers. When he won heavily or was winning he
                        munched tobacco with a seraphic smile and occasionally in the midst of trading would exclaim:
                        You fellers better come in. It's a-gonta rain some more." He was not easy to
                        trap in any small gambling game, and only lost or won when there was a free, open struggle in
                        the market nr when he was engineering some little scheme of his own.
                    The matter of this partnership was not arranged at once, although it did not take
                        long. Old Peter Laughlin wanted to think it over, although he had immediately developed a
                        personal fancy for Cowperwood. In a way he was the latter's victim and servant from the
                        start. They met day after day to discuss various details and terms; finally, true to his
                        instincts, old Peter demanded a full half interest.
                    "Now, you don't want that much, Laughlin," Cowperwood
                        suggested, quite blandly. They were sitting in Laughlin's private office between four
                        and five in the after-noon, and Laughlin was chewing tobacco with the sense of having a fine,
                        interesting problem before him. I have a. seat on the New York Stock Exchange," he went
                        on, "and that's worth forty thousand dollars. My seat on the Philadelphia
                        exchange is worth more than yours here. They will naturally figure as the principal assets of
                        the firm. It's to be in your name. I'll be liberal with you, though. Instead
                        of a third, which would be fair, I'll make it forty-nine per cent., and we'll
                        call the firm Peter Laughlin & Co. I like you, and I think you can be of a lot of use to
                        me. I know you will make more money through me  than
                        you have alone. I could go in with a lot of these silk-stocking fellows around here, but I
                        don't want to. You'd better decide right now, and let's get to
                        work."
                    Old Laughlin was pleased beyond measure that young Cowperwood should want to go in
                        with him. He had become aware of late that all of the young, smug new-comers on 'change
                        considered him an old fogy. Here was a strong, brave young Easterner, twenty years his junior,
                        evidently as shrewd as himselfmore so, he fearedwho actually proposed a business alliance.
                        Besides, Cowperwood, in his young, healthy, aggressive way, was like a breath of spring.
                    "I ain't keerin' so much about the name,"
                        rejoined Laughlin. "You can fix it that-a-way if you want to. Givin' you
                        fifty-one per cent, gives you charge of this here shebang. All right, though; I ain't
                        a-kickin'. I guess I can manage allus to git what's a-comin' to
                        me."
                    "It's a bargain, then," said Cowperwood.
                        "We'll want new offices, Laughlin, don't you think? This
                        one's a little dark."
                    "Fix it up any way you like, Mr. Cowperwood. It's all the same to
                        me. I'll be glad to see how yer do it."
                    In a week the details were completed, and two weeks later the sign of Peter Laughlin
                        & Co., grain and commission merchants, appeared over the door of a handsome suite of
                        rooms on the ground floor of a corner at La Salle and Madison, in the heart of the Chicago
                        financial district.
                    "Get onto old Laughlin, will you?" one broker observed to another,
                        as they passed the new, pretentious commission-house with its splendid plate-glass windows, and
                        observed, the heavy, ornate bronze sign placed on either side of the door, which was located
                        exactly on the corner. "What's, struck him? I thought he was almost all
                        through. Who's the Company?"
                    "I don't know. Some fellow from the East, I think."
                    "Well, he's certainly moving up. Look at the plate glass, will
                        you?"
                    It was thus that Frank Algernon Cowperwood's Chicago financial career was
                        definitely launched.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    CONCERNING A WIFE AND FAMILY
                    If any one fancies for a moment that this commercial move on the part of Cowperwood
                        was either nasty or ill-considered they but little appreciate the incisive, apprehensive
                        psychology of the man. His thoughts as to life and control (tempered and hardened by thirteen
                        months of reflection in the Eastern District Penitentiary) had given him a fixed policy. He
                        could, should, and would rule alone. No man must ever again have the least claim on him save
                        that of a suppliant. He wanted no more dangerous combinations such as he had had with Stener,
                        the man through whom he had lost so much in Philadelphia, and others. By right of financial
                        intellect and courage he was first, and would so prove it. Men must swing around him as planets
                        around the sun.
                    Moreover, since his fall from grace in Philadelphia he had come to think that never
                        again, perhaps, could he hope to become socially acceptable in the sense in which the so-called
                        best society of a city interprets the phrase; and pondering over this at odd moments, he
                        realized that his future allies in all probability would not be among the rich and socially
                        importantthe clannish, snobbish elements of societybut among the beginners and financially
                        strong men who had come or were coming up from the bottom, and who had no social hopes
                        whatsoever. There were many such. If through luck and effort he became sufficiently powerful
                        financially he might then hope to dictate to society. Individualistic and even anarchistic in
                        character, and without a shred of true democracy, yet temperamentally he was in sympathy with
                        the mass more than he was with the class, and he understood the mass better. Perhaps this, in a
                        way, will explain his desire to  Connect himself with
                        a personality so na$iUve and strange as Peter Laughlin. He had annexed him as a surgeon selects
                        a special knife or instrument for an operation, and, shrewd as old Laughlin was, he was destined
                        to be no more than a tool in Cowperwood's strong hands, a mere hustling messenger,
                        content to take orders from this swiftest of moving brains. For the present Cowerwood was
                        satisfied to do business under the firm name of Peter Laughlin & Co.as a matter of fact,
                        he preferred it; for he could thus keep himself sufficiently inconspicuous to avoid undue
                        attention, and gradually work out one or two coups by which he hoped to firmly fix himself in
                        the financial future of Chicago.
                    As the most essential preliminary to the social as well as the financial
                        establishment of himself and Aileen in Chicago, Harper Steger, Cowperwood's lawyer, was
                        doing his best all this while to ingratiate himself in the confidence of Mrs. Cowperwood, who
                        had no faith in lawyers any more than she had in her recalcitrant husband. She was now a tall,
                        severe, and rather plain woman, but still bearing the marks of the former passive charm that had
                        once interested Cowperwood. Notable crows'-feet had come about the corners of her nose,
                        mouth, and eyes. She had a remote, censorious, subdued, self-righteous, and even injured air.
                    The cat-like Steger, who had all the graceful contemplative air of a prowling Tom,
                        was just the person to deal with her. A more suavely cunning and opportunistic soul never was.
                        His motto might well have been, speak softly and step lightly.
                    "My dear Mrs. Cowperwood," he argued, seated in her modest West
                        Philadelphia parlor one spring afternoon, "I need not tell you what a remarkable man
                        your husband is, nor how useless it is to combat him. Admitting all his faultsand we can agree,
                        if you please, that they are many" Mrs. Cowperwood stirred with
                        irritation"still it is not worth while to attempt to hold him to a strict account. You
                        know"and Mr. Steger opened his thin, artistic hands in a deprecatory way"what
                        sort of a man Mr. Cowperwood is, and whether he can be coerced or not. He is not an ordinary
                        man, Mrs. Cowperwood. No man could have gone through what he has and be where he is to-day,  and be an average man. If you take my advice you will
                        let him go his way. Grant him a divorce. He is willing, even anxious to make a definite
                        provision for you and your children. He will, I am sure, look liberally after their future. But
                        he is becoming very irritable over your unwillingness to give him a legal separation, and unless
                        you do I am very much afraid that the whole matter will be thrown into the courts. If, before it
                        comes to that, I could effect an arrangement agreeable to you, I would be much pleased. As you
                        know, I have been greatly grieved by the whole course of your recent affairs. I am intensely
                        sorry that things are as they are."
                    Mr. Steger lifted his eyes in a very pained, deprecatory way. He regretted deeply the
                        shifty currents of this troubled world.
                    Mrs. Cowperwood for perhaps the fifteenth or twentieth time heard him to the end in
                        patience. Cowperwood would not return. Steger was as much her friend as any other lawyer would
                        be. Besides, he was socially agreeable to her. Despite his Machiavellian profession, she half
                        believed him. He went over, tactfully, a score of additional points. Finally, on the
                        twenty-first visit, and with seemingly great distress, he told her that her husband had decided
                        to break with her financially, to pay no more bills, and do nothing until his responsibility had
                        been fixed by the courts, and that he, Steger, was about to retire from the case. Mrs.
                        Cowperwood felt that she must yield; she named her ultimatum. If he would fix two hundred
                        thousand dollars on her and the children (this was Cowperwood's own suggestion) and
                        later on do something commercially for their only son, Frank junior, she would let him go. She
                        disliked to do it. She knew that it meant the triumph of Aileen Butler, such as it was. But,
                        after all, that wretched creature had been properly disgraced in Philadelphia. It was not likely
                        she could ever raise her head socially anywhere any more. She agreed to file a plea which Steger
                        would draw up for her, and by that oily gentleman's machinations it was finally wormed
                        through the local court in the most secret manner imaginable. The merest item in three of the
                        Philadelphia papers some six weeks later reported 
                        that a divorce had been granted. When Mrs. Cowperwood read it she wondered greatly that so
                        little attention had been attracted by it. She had feared a much more extended comment. She
                        little knew the cat-like prowlings, legal and journalistic, of her husband's
                        interesting counsel. When Cowperwood read it on one of his visits to Chicago he heaved a sigh of
                        relief. At last it was really true. Now he could make Aileen his wife. He telegraphed her an
                        enigmatic message of congratulation. When Aileen read it she thrilled from head to foot. Now,
                        shortly, she would become the legal bride of Frank Algernon Cowperwood, the newly enfranchised
                        Chicago financier, and then
                    "Oh," she said, in her Philadelphia home, when she read it,
                        "isn't that splendid! Now I'll be Mrs. Cowperwood. Oh,
                        dear!"
                    Mrs. Frank Algernon Cowperwood number one, thinking over her husband's
                        liaison, failure, imprisonment, pyrotechnic operations at the time of the Jay Cooke failure, and
                        his present financial ascendancy, wondered at the mystery of life. There must be a God. The
                        Bible said so. Her husband, evil though he was, could not be utterly bad, for he had made ample
                        provision for her, and the children liked him. Certainly, at the time of the criminal
                        prosecution he was no worse than some others who had gone free. Yet he had been convicted, and
                        she was sorry for that and had always been. He was an able and ruthless man. She hardly knew
                        what to think. The one person she really did blame was the wretched, vain, empty-headed, ungodly
                        Aileen Butler, who had been his seductress and was probably now to be his wife. God would punish
                        her, no doubt. He must. So she went to church on Sundays and tried to believe, come what might,
                        that all was for the best.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE NEW QUEEN OF THE HOME
                    THE day Cowperwood and Aileen were married it was in an obscure village called
                        Dalston, near Pittsburg, in western Pennsylvania, where they had stopped off to manage this
                        matterhe had said to her" "I want to tell you, dear, that you and I are really
                        beginning life all over. Now it depends on how well we play this game as to how well we succeed.
                        If you will listen to me we won't try to do anything much socially in Chicago for the
                        present. Of course we'll have to meet a few people. That can't be avoided. Mr.
                        and Mrs. Addison are anxious to meet you, and I've delayed too long in that matter as
                        it is. But what I mean is that I don't believe it's advisable to push this
                        social exchange too far. People are sure to begin to make inquiries if we do. My plan is to wait
                        a little while and then build a really fine house so that we won't need to rebuild.
                        We're going to go to Europe next spring, if things go right, and we may get some ideas
                        over there. I'm going to put in a good big gallery," he concluded.
                        "While we're traveling we might as well see what we can find in the way of
                        pictures and so on."
                    Aileen was thrilling with anticipation. "Oh, Frank," she said to
                        him, quite ecstatically, "you're so wonderful! You do everything you want,
                        don't you?"
                    "Not quite," he said, deprecatingly; "but it
                        isn't for not wanting to. Chance has a little to say about some of these things,
                        Aileen."
                    She stood in front of him, as she often did, her plump, ringed hands on his
                        shoulders, and looked into those steady, lucid poolshis eyes. Another man, less leonine, and
                        with all his shifting thoughts, might have had to contend with the handicap of a shifty gaze; he
                        fronted the  Queries and suspicions of the world with
                        a seeming candor that was as disarming as that of a child. The truth was he believed in himself,
                        and himself only, and thence sprang his courage to think as he pleased. Aileen wondered, but
                        could get no answer.
                    "Oh, you big tiger!" she said. "You great, big lion!
                        Boo!"
                    He pinched her cheek and smiled. "Poor Aileen!" he thought. She
                        little knew the unsolvable mystery that he was even to himselfto himself most of all.
                    Immediately after their marriage Cowperwood and Aileen journeyed to Chicago direct,
                        and took the best rooms that the Tremont provided, for the time being. A little later they heard
                        of a comparatively small furnished house at Twenty-third and Michigan Avenue, which, with horses
                        and carriages thrown in, was to be had for a season or two on lease. They contracted for it at
                        once, installing a butler, servants, and the general service of a well-appointed home. Here,
                        because he thought it was only courteous, and not because he thought it was essential or wise at
                        this time to attempt a social onslaught, he invited the Addisons and one or two others whom he
                        felt sure would comeAlexander Rambaud, president of the Chicago & Northwestern, and his
                        wife, and Taylor Lord, an architect whom he had recently called into consultation and whom he
                        found socially acceptable. Lord, like the Addisons, was in society, but only as a minor figure.
                    Trust Cowperwood to do the thing as it should be done. The place they had leased was
                        a charming little gray-stone house, with a neat flight of granite, balustraded steps leading up
                        to its wide-arched door, and a judicious use of stained glass to give its interior an
                        artistically subdued atmosphere. Fortunately, it was furnished in good taste. Cowperwood turned
                        over the matter of the dinner to a caterer and decorator. Aileen had nothing to do but dress,
                        and wait, and look her best.
                    "I needn't tell you," he said, in the morning, on leaving,
                        "that I want you to look nice to-night, pet. I want the Addisons and Mr. Rambaud to
                        like you."
                    A hint was more than sufficient for Aileen, though really it was not needed. On
                        arriving at Chicago she had sought  and discovered a
                        French maid. Although she had brought plenty of dresses from Philadelphia, she had been having
                        additional winter costumes prepared by the best and most expensive mistress of the art in
                        ChicagoTheresa Donovan. Only the day before she had welcomed home a golden-yellow silk under
                        heavy green lace, which, with her reddish-gold hair and her white arms and neck, seemed to
                        constitute an unusual harmony. Her boudoir on the might of the dinner presented a veritable riot
                        of silks, satins, laces, lingerie, hair ornaments, perfumes, jewelsanything and everything which
                        might contribute to the feminine art of being beautiful. Once in the throes of a toilet
                        composition, Aileen invariably became restless and energetic, almost fidgety, and her maid,
                        Fadette, was compelled to move quickly. Fresh from her bath, a smooth, ivory Venus, she worked
                        quickly through silken lingerie, stockings and shoes, to her hair. Fadette had an idea to
                        suggest for the hair. Would Madame let her try a new swirl she had seen? Madame wouldyes. So
                        there were movings of her mass of rich glinting tresses this way and that. Somehow it would not
                        do. A braided effect was then tried, and instantly discarded; finally a double looping, without
                        braids, low over the forehead, caught back with two dark-green bands, crossing like an X above
                        the center of her forehead and fastened with a diamond sunburst, served admirably. In her filmy,
                        lacy boudoir costume of pink silk Aileen stood up and surveyed herself in the full-length
                        mirror.
                    "Yes," she said, turning her head this way and that.
                    Then came the dress from Donovan's, rustling and crisping. She slipped into
                        it wonderingly, critically, while Fadette worked at the back, the arms, about her knees, doing
                        one little essential thing after another.
                    "Oh, Madame!" she exclaimed. "Oh, charmant! Ze hair, it go weeth it perfect. It ees so full, so beyutiful
                        here" she pointed to the hips, where the lace formed a clinging basque. "Oh,
                        tees varee, varee nize."
                    Aileen glowed, but with scarcely a smile. She was concerned. It wasn't so
                        much her toilet, which must be everything that it should bebut this Mr. Addison, who was so rich
                        and in society, and Mr. Rambaud, who was very powerful, Frank said, must like her. It was the
                        necessity  to put her best foot forward now that was
                        really troubling her. She must interest these men mentally, perhaps, as well as physically, and
                        with social graces, and that was not so easy. For all her money and comfort in Philadelphia she
                        had never been in society in its best aspects, had never done social entertaining of any real
                        importance, Frank was the most important man who had ever crossed her path. No doubt Mr. Rambaud
                        das a severe, old-fashioned wife. How would she talk to her? And Mrs. Addison! She would know
                        and see everything. Aileen almost talked out loud to herself in 3. consoling way as she dressed,
                        so strenuous were her thoughts; but she went on, adding the last touches to her physical graces.
                    When she finally went down-stairs to see how the dining and reception rooms looked,
                        and Fadette began putting away the welter of discarded garmentsshe was a radiant visiona
                        splendid greenish-gold figure, with gorgeous hair, smooth, soft, shapely ivory arms, a splendid
                        neck and bust, and a swelling form. She felt beautiful, and yet she was a little nervoustruly.
                        Frank himself would be critical. She went about looking into the dining-room, which, by the
                        caterer's art, had been transformed into a kind of jewel-box glowing with flowers,
                        silver, gold, tinted glass, and the snowy whiteness of linen. It reminded her of an opal
                        flashing all its soft fires. She went into the general reception-room, where was a grand, piano
                        finished. in pink and gold, upon which, with due thought to her one accomplishmenther playingshe
                        had arranged the songs and instrumental pieces she did best. Aileen was really not a brilliant
                        musician. For the first time in her life she felt matronlyas if now she were not a girl any
                        more, but a woman grown, with some serious responsibilities, and yet she was not really suited
                        to the r$oCle. As a matter of fact, her thoughts were always fixed on the artistic, social, and
                        dramatic aspects of life, with unfortunately a kind of nebulosity of conception which permitted
                        no condensation into anything definite or concrete. She could only be wildly and feverishly
                        interested. Just then the door clicked to Frank's keyit was nearing sixand in he came,
                        smiling, confident, a perfect atmosphere of assurance.
                    "Well" he observed, surveying her in the soft glow of  the reception-room lighted by wall candles
                        judiciously arranged. "Who's the vision floating around here? I'm
                        almost afraid to touch you. Much powder on those arms?" He drew her into his arms, and
                        she put up her mouth with a sense of relief. Obviously, he must think that she looked charming.
                    I am chalky, I guess. You'll just have to stand it, though. You're
                        going to dress, anyhow."
                    She put her smooth, plump arms about his neck, and he felt pleased. This was the kind
                        of a woman to havea beauty. Her neck was resplendent with a string of turquoise, her fingers too
                        heavily jeweled, but still beautiful. She was faintly too her fingers too heavily jeweled, but
                        still beautiful. She was faintly redolent of hyacinth or lavender. Her hair appealed to him, and
                        above all, the rich yellow silk of her dress, flashing fulgurously through the closely netted
                        green.
                    Charming, girlie. You ve outdone yourself. I haven't seen this dress before.
                        Where did you get it?"
                    "Here in Chicago."
                    He lifted her warm fingers, surveying her train, and turned her about.
                    "Am I all right?" she queried, smartly, but with a sense of
                        self-distrust for the moment, and all because of him.
                    "You're perfect. Couldn't be nicer. Splendid!"
                        She took heart.
                    "I wish your friends would think so. You'd better hurry."
                    He went up-stairs, and she followed, looking first into the dining-room again. At
                        least that was right. Surely Frank was a master.
                    At seven the plop of the feet of carriage horses was heard, and a moment later Louis,
                        the butler, was opening the door. Aileen went down, a little nervous, a little frigid, trying to
                        think of many pleasant things, and wondering whether she would really succeed in being
                        entertaining. Cowperwood accompanied her, a very different person in so far as mood and
                        self-poise were concerned. To himself his own future was always secure, and that of
                        Aileen's if he wished to make it so. The arduous, upward-ascending  rungs of the social ladder that were troubling her had no such
                        significance to him.
                    The dinner, as such simple things go, was a success from what might be called a
                        managerial and pictorial point of view. Cowperwood, because of his varied tastes and interests,
                        could discuss railroading with Mr. Rambaud in a very definite and illuminating way; could talk
                        architecture would talk with a woman like Mrs. Addison or Mrs. Rambaud he could suggest or
                        follow appropnate leads. Aileen, unfortunately, was not so much at home, for her natural state
                        and mood were remote not so mach from a serious sa from an accurate concepation life. So many
                        things, except in a very nebulous and suggestive way, were sealed books to Aileenmerely faint,
                        distant tinklings. She knew nothing of literature except certain authors who to the truly
                        cultured might seem banal. As for art, it was merely a jingle of names gathered from
                        Cowperwood's private comments. Her one redeeming feature was that she was truly
                        beautiful herselfa radiant, vibrating objet d'art. A man
                        like Rambaud, re-like Aileen in the 'life of a man like Cowperwood on the instant. She
                        was such a woman as he would have prized himself in a certain capacity.
                    Sex interest in all strong men usually endures unto the end, governed sometimes by a
                        stoic resignation. The experiment of such attraction can, as they well know, be made over and
                        over, but to what end? For many it becomes too troublesome. Yet the presence of so glittering a
                        spectacle as Aileen on this night touched Mr. Rambaud with an ancient ambition. He looked at her
                        almost sadly. Once he was much younger. But alas, he had never attracted the flaming, interest
                        of any such woman. As he studied her now he wished that he might have enjoyed such
                    In contrast with Aileen's orchid glow and tinted richness Mrs.
                        Rambaud's simple gray silk, the collar of which came almost to her ears, was
                        disturbingalmost reprovingbut Mrs. Rambaud's ladylike courtesy and generosity made
                        everything all right. She came out of intellectual 
                        New Englandthe Emerson-Thoreau-Channing Phillips school of philosophyand was broadly tolerant.
                        As a matter of fact, she liked Aileen and all the Orient richness she represented.
                        "Such a sweet little house this is," she said, smilingly.
                        "We've noticed it often. We're not so far removed from you but what
                        we might be called neighbors."
                    Aileen's spoke appreciation. Although she could Mrs. Rambaud, she understood
                        her, in a way, and liked her. She was probably something like her own mother would have been if
                        the latter had been highly educated. While they were moving into the reception room Taylor Lord
                        was announced. Cowperwood took his hand and brought him forward to the others.
                    "Mrs. Cowperwood," said Lord, admiringlytall, rugged, thoughtful
                        personlet me be one of many to welcome you to Chicago. After Philadelphia you will find
                        eventully."
                    "Oh, I'm sure I shall," smiled Aileen.
                    "I lived in Philadelphia years ago, but only for a little while,"
                        added Lord. "I left there to come here."
                    The observation gave Aileen the least pause, but she passed it over lightly. This
                        sort of accidental reference she must learn to expect; there might be much worse bridges to
                        cross.
                    "I find Chicago all right," she replied, briskly.
                        "There's nothing the matter with it. It has more snap than Philadelphia ever
                        had."
                    "I'm glad to hear you say that. I like it so much. Perhaps
                        it's because I find such interesting things to do here."
                    He was admiring the splendor of her arms and hair. What need had beautiful woman to
                        be intellectual, anyhow, he was saying to himself, sensing that Aileen might be deficient in
                        ultimate refinement.
                    Once more Addison announcement form the butler, and now Mr. and Mrs. Addison entered.
                        Addison was not at all concerned over coming hereliked the idea of it; his own position and that
                        of his wife in Chicago was secure. "How are you, Cowperwood?" he beamed,
                        laying, one hand on the  latter's shoulder.
                        "This is fine of you to have us in to-night. Mts. Cowperwood, I've been
                        telling your husband for nearly a year now that he should bring you out here. Did he tell
                        you?" (Addison had not as yet confided to his wife the true history of Cowperwood and
                        Aileen.)
                    "Yes, indeed," replied Aileen, gaily, feeling that Addison was
                        charmed by her beauty. "I've been wanting to come, too. It's his
                        fault that I wasn't here sooner."
                    Addison, looking circumspectly at Aileen, said to himself that she was certainly a
                        stunning-looking woman. So she was the cause of the first wife's suit. No wonder. What
                        a splendid creature! He contrasted her with Mrs. Addison, and to his wife's
                        disadvantage. She had never been as striking, as stand-upish as Aileen, though possibly she
                        might have more sense. Jove! If he could find a woman like Aileen to-day. Life would take on a
                        new luster. And yet he had womenvery carefully, very subterraneously. But he had them.
                    "It's such a pleasure to meet you," Mrs. Addison, a
                        corpulent, bejeweled lady, was saying to Aileen. "My husband and yours have become the
                        best of friends, apparently. We must see more of each other."
                    She babbled on in a puffy social way, and Aileen felt as though she were getting
                        along swiftly. The butler brought in a great tray of appetizers and cordials, and put them
                        softly on a remote table. Dinner was served, and the talk flowed on; they discussed the growth
                        of the city, a new church that Lord was building ten blocks farther out; Rambaud told some
                        humorous land swindles. It was quite gay. Meanwhile Aileen did her best to become interested in
                        Mrs. Rambaud and Mrs. Addison liked the latter somewhat better, solely because it was a little
                        easier to talk to her. Mrs. Rambaud Aileen knew to be the wiser and more charitable woman, but
                        she frightened her a little; presently she had to fall back on Mr. Lord's help. He came
                        to her rescue gallantly of everything that came into his mind. All the men outside of Cowperwood
                        were thinking how splendid Aileen was physically, how white were here arms, how rounded her neck
                        and shoulders, how rich her hair.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    CHICAGO GAS
                    OLD Peter Laughlin, rejuvenated by Cowperwood's electric ideas, was making
                        money for the house. He brought many bits of interesting gossip from the floor, and such shrewd
                        guesses as to what certain groups and individuals.
                    "By Gosh! Frank, I think I know exactly what them fellers are trying to
                        do," Laughlin would frequently remark of a morning, after he had lain m his lonely
                        Harrison Street bed meditating the major portion of the night. "That there Stock Yards
                        gang" (and by gang he meant most of the great manipulators, like Arneel, Hand,
                        Schryhart and others) "are after corn again. We want to git long O' that now,
                        or I miss my guess. What do you think, huh?"
                    Cowperwood, schooled by now in many Western subtleties which he had not previously
                        known, and daily becoming wiser, would as a rule give an instaneous decision.
                    'You're right. Risk a hundred' thousand bushels. I think
                        New York Central is going to drop a point or two in a few days. We'd better go short a
                        point."
                    Laughlin could never figure out quite how it was that Cowperwood always seemed to
                        know and was ready to act quite as quickly in local matters as he was himself. He understood his
                        wisdom concerning Eastern shares and things dealt in on the Eastern exchange, but these Chicago
                        matters?
                    "Whut makes you think that?" he asked Cowperwood, one day, quite
                        curiously.
                    "Why, Peter," Cowperwood replied, quite simply, "Anton
                        Videra" (one of the directors of the Wheat and Corn Bank) "was in here
                        yesterday while you were on" change,  and he
                        was telling me." He described a situation which Videra had outlined.
                    Laughlin knew Videra as a strong, wealthy Pole who had come up in the last few years.
                        It was strange how Cowperwood naturally got in with these wealthy men and won their confidence
                        so quickly. Videra would never have become so confidential with him.
                    "Huh!" he exclaimed. "Well, if he says it it's
                        more'n likely so."
                    So Laughlin bought, and Peter Laughlin & Co. won.
                    But this grain and commission business, while it was yielding a profit which would
                        average about twenty thousand a year to each partner, was nothing more to Cowperwood than a
                        source of information.
                    He wanted to "get in" on something that was sure to bring very
                        great returns within a reasonable time and that would not leave him in any such desperate
                        situation as he was at the time of the Chicago firespread out very thin, as he put it. He had
                        interested in his ventures a small group of Chicago men who were watching himJudah Addison,
                        Alexander Rambaud, Millard Bailey, Anton Videramen who, although not supreme figures by any
                        means, had free capital. He knew that he could go to them with any truly sound proposition. The
                        one thing that most attracted his attention was the Chicago gas situation, because there was a
                        chance to step in almost unheralded in an as yet unoccupied territory; with franchises once
                        securedthe reader can quite imagine howhe could present himself, like a Hamilcar Barca in the
                        heart of Spain or a Hannibal at the gates of Rome, with a demand for surrender and a division of
                        spoils.
                    There were at this time three gas companies operating in the three different
                        divisions of the citythe three sections, or "sides," as they were calledSouth,
                        West, and North, and of these the Chicago Gas, Light, and Coke Company, organized in 1848 to do
                        business on the South Side, was the most flourishing and important. The People's Gas,
                        Light, and Coke Company, doing business on the West Side, was a few years younger than the South
                        Chicago company, and had been allowed to spring into existence through the foolish
                        self-confidence of the organizer  and directors of the
                        South Side company, who had fancied that neither the West Side nor the North Side was going to
                        develop very rapidly for a number of years to come, and had counted on the city
                        council's allowing them to extend their mains at any time to these other portions of
                        the city. A third company, the North Chicago Gas Illuminating Company, had been organized almost
                        simultaneously with the West Side company by the same process through which the other companies
                        had been brought into lifetheir avowed intention, like that of the West Side company, being to
                        confine their activities to the sections from which the organizers presumably came.
                    Cowperwood's first project was to buy out and combine the three old city
                        companies. With this in view he looked up the holders in all three corporationstheir financial
                        and social status. It was his idea that by offering them three for one, or even four for one,
                        for every dollar represented by the market value of their stock he might buy in and capitalize
                        the three companies as one. Then, by issuing sufficient stock to cover all his obligations, he
                        would reap a rich harvest and at the same time leave himself in charge. He approached Judah
                        Addison first as the most available man to help float a scheme of this kind. He did not want him
                        as a partner so much as he wanted him as an investor.
                    "Well, I'll tell you how I feel about this," said Addison,
                        finally. "You've hit on a great idea here. It's a wonder it
                        hasn't occurred to some one else before. And you'll want to keep rather quiet
                        about it, or some one else will rush in and do it. We have a lot of venturesome men out here.
                        But I like you, and I'm with you. Now it wouldn't be advisable for me to go in
                        on this peresonallynot openly, anyhowbut I'll promise to see that you get some of the
                        money you want. I like your idea of a central holding company, or pool, with you in charge as
                        trustee, and I'm perfectly willing that you should manage it, for I think you can do
                        it. Anyhow, that leaves me out, apparently, except as an investor. But you will have to get two
                        or three others to help carry this guarantee with me. Have you any one in mind?"
                    "Oh yes," replied Cowperwood. "Certainly. I merely  came to you first." He mentioned Rambaud,
                        Videra, Bailey, and others.
                    "They're all right," said Addison, "if you can
                        get them. But I'm not sure, even then, that you can induce these other fellows to sell
                        out. They're not investors in the ordinary sense. They're people who look on
                        this gas business as their private business. They started it. They like it. They built the
                        gas-tanks and laid the mains. It won't be easy."
                    Cowperwood found, as Addison predicted, that it was not such an easy matter to induce
                        the various stockholders and directors in the old companies to come in on any such scheme of
                        reorganization. A closer, more unresponsive set of men he was satisfied he had never met. His
                        offer to buy outright at three or four for one they refused absolutely. The stock in each case
                        was selling from one hundred and seventy to two hundred and ten, and intrinsically was worth
                        more every year, as the city was growing larger and its need of gas greater. At the same time
                        they suspiciousone and allof any combination scheme by an outsider. Who was he? Whom did he
                        represent? He could make it clear that he had ample capital, but not who his backers were. The
                        old officers and directors fancied that it was a scheme on the part of some of the officers and
                        directors of one of the other companies to get control and oust them. Why should they sell? Why
                        be tempted by greater profits from their stock when they Chicago and his lack of connection as
                        yet with large affairs Cowperwood was eventually compelled to turn to another schemethat of
                        organizing new companies in the suburbs as an entering-wedge of attack upon the city proper.
                        Suburbs such as Lake View and Hyde Park, having town or village councils of their own, were
                        permitted to grant franchises to water, gas, and street-railway companies duly incorporated
                        under the laws of the state. Cowperwood calculated that if he could form separate and seemingly
                        distinct companies for each of the villages and towns, and one general company for the city
                        later, he would be in a positon to dictate terms to the older organizations. It was simply a
                        question of obtaining his charters and  franchises
                        before his rivals had awakened to the situation.
                    The one difficulty was that he knew absolutely nothing of the business of gasits
                        practical manufacture and distributionand had never been particularly interested in it.
                        Street-railroading, his favorite form of municipal profit-seeking, and one upon which he had
                        acquired an almost endless fund of specialized information, offered on present practical
                        opportunity for him here in Chicago. He meditated on the situation, did some reading on the
                        manufacture of gas, and then suddenly, as was his luck, found an implement ready to his hand.
                    It appeared that in the course of the life and growth of the South Side company there
                        had once been a smaller organization founded by a man by the name of SippensHenry De Soto
                        Sippenswho had entered and actually secured, by some hocus-pocus, a franchise to manufacture and
                        sell gas in the down-town districts, but who had been annoyed by all sorts of legal processes
                        until he had finally been driven out persuaded to get out. He was now in the real-estate
                        business Lake View. Old Peter Laughlin knew him.
                    "He's a smart little cuss," Laughlin told Cowperwood.
                        "I thort onct he'd make a go of it, but they ketched him where his hair was
                        short, and he had to let go. There was an explosion in his tank over here near the river onct,
                        an' I think he thort them fellers blew him up. Anyhow, he got out. I ain't
                        seen ner heard sight of him fer years."
                    Cowperwood sent old Peter to look up Mr. Sippens and find out what he was really
                        doing, and whether he would be interested to get back in the gas business. Enter, then, a few
                        days later into the office of Peter Laughlin & Co. Henry De Soto Sippens. He was a very
                        little man, about fifty years of age; he wore a high, four-cornered, stiff felt hat, with a
                        short brown business coat (which in summer became seersucker) and square-toed shoes; he looked
                        for all the world like a country drug or book store owner, with perhaps the air of a country
                        doctor or lawyer superadded. His cuffs protruded too far from his coat-sleeves, his necktie
                        bulged too far out of his vest, and his high hat was set a little too far back on his forehead;
                        otherwise he was  acceptable, pleasant, and
                        interesting. He had short side-burnsreddish brownwhich stuck out quite defiantly, and his
                        eyebrows were heavy.
                    "Mr. Sippens," said Cowperwood, blandly, "you were once in
                        the gas manufacturing and distributing business here in Chicago, weren't you?"
                    "I think I know as much about the manufacture of gas as any one,"
                        replied Sippens, almost contentiously. "I worked at it for a number of years."
                    "Well, now, Mr. Sippens, I was thinking that it might be interesting to
                        start a little gas company in one of these outlying villages that are growing so fast and see if
                        we couldn't make some money out of it. I'm not a practical gas man myself, but
                        I thought I might interest some one who was." He looked at Sippens in a friendly,
                        estimating way. "I have heard of you as some one who has had considerable experience in
                        this field here in Chicago. If I should get up a company of this kind, with considerable
                        backing, do you think you might be willing to take the management of it?"
                    "Oh, I know all about this gas field," Mr. Sippens was about to
                        say. "It can't be done." But he changed his mind before opening his
                        lips. "If I were paid enough," he said, cautiously. "I suppose you
                        know what you have to contend with?"
                    "Oh yes," Cowperwood replied, smiling. "What would you
                        consider 'paid enough' to mean?"
                    "Oh, if I were given six thousand a year and a sufficient interest in the
                        companysay, a half, or something like thatI might consider it," replied Sippens,
                        determined, as he thought, to frighten Cowperwood off by his exorbitant demands. He was making
                        almost six thousand dollars a year out of his present business.
                    "You wouldn't think that four thousand in several companiessay up
                        to fifteen thousand dollarsand an interest of about a tenth in each would be better?"
                    Mr. Sippens meditated carefully on this. Plainly, the man before him was no trifling
                        beginner. He looked at Cowperwood shrewdly and saw at once, without any additional explanation
                        of any kind, that the latter was preparing a big fight of some sort. Ten years before Sippens
                             had sensed the immense possibilities of the gas
                        business. He had tried to "get in on it," but had been sued, waylaid,
                        enjoined, financially blockaded, and finally blown up. He had always resented the treatment he
                        had received, and he had bitterly regretted his inability to retaliate. He had thought his days
                        of financial effort were over, but here was a man who was subtly suggesting a stirring fight,
                        and who was calling him, like a hunter with horn, to the chase.
                    "Well, Mr, Cowperwood," he replied, with less defiance and more
                        camaraderie, it you could snow me that you have a legitimate proposition in hand I am a
                        practical gas man. I know all about mains, franchise contracts, and gas-machinery. I organized
                        and installed the plant at Dayton, Ohio, and Rochester, New York. I would have been rich if I
                        had got here a little earlier." The echo of regret was in his voice.
                    "Well, now, here's your chance, Mr. Sippens," urged
                        Cowperwood, subtly. "Between you and me there's going to be a big new gas
                        company in the field. We'll make these old fellows step up and see us quickly.
                        Doesn't that interest you? There'll be plenty of money. It isn't that
                        that's wantingit's an organizer, a. fighter, a practical gas man to build the
                        plant, lay the mains, and so on. Cowperwood rose suddenly, straight and determineda trick with
                        him when he wanted to really impress any one. He seemed to radiate force, conquest, victory.
                        "Do you want to come in?"
                    "Yes, I do, Mr. Cowperwood!" exclaimed Sippens, jumping to his
                        feet, putting on his hat and shoving it far back on his head. He looked like a chest-swollen
                        bantam rooster.
                    Cowperwood took his extended hand.
                    "Get your real-estate affairs in order. I'll want you to get me a
                        franchise in Lake View shortly and build me a plant. I'll give you all the help you
                        need. I'll arrange everything to your satisfaction within a week or so. We will want a
                        good lawyer or two."
                    Sippens smiled ecstatically as he left the office. Oh, the wonder of this, and after
                        ten years! Now he would show those crooks. Now he had a real fighter behind hima  man like himself. Now, by George, the fur would
                        begin to fly! Who was this man, anyhow? What a wonder! He would look him up. He knew that from
                        now on he would do almost anything Cowperwood wanted him to do.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    NOW THIS IS FIGHTING
                    WHEN Cowperwood, after failing in his overtures to the three city gas companies,
                        confided to Addison his plan of organizing rival companies in the suburbs, the banker glared at
                        him appreciatively. You're a smart one!" he finally exclaimed.
                        "You'll do! I back you to win!" He went on to advise Cowperwood that
                        he would need the assistance of some of the strong men on the teeth," he went on.
                        "But there are one or two that are more crooked than others and saferbell-wethers. Have
                        you got your lawyer?"
                    "I haven't picked one yet, but I will. I'm looking around
                        for the right man now."
                    "Well, of course, I needn't tell you how important that is. There
                        is one man, old General Van Sickle, who has had considerable training in these matters.
                        He's fairly reliable."
                    The entrance of Gen. Judson P. Van Sickle threw at the very outset a suggestive light
                        on the whole situation. The old soldier, over fifty, had been a general of division during the
                        Civil War, and had got his real start in life by filing false titles to property in southern
                        Illinois, and then bringing suits to substantiate his fraudulent claims before friendly
                        associates. He was now a prosperous go-between, requiring heavy retainers, and yet not
                        over-prosperous. There was only one kind of business that came to the Generalthis kind; and one
                        instinctively compared him to that decoy sheep at the stock-yards that had been trained to go
                        forth into nervous, frightened flocks of its fellow-sheep, balking at being driven into the
                        slaughtering-pens, and lead them peacefully into the shambles,  knowing enough always to make his own way quietly to the rear during the
                        onward progress and thus escape. A dusty old lawyer, this, with Heaven knows what welter of
                        altered wills, broken promises, suborned juries, influenced judges, bribed councilmen and
                        legislators, double-intentioned agreements and contracts, and a whole world of shifty legal
                        calculations and false pretenses floating around in his brain. Among the politicians, judges,
                        and lawyers generally, by reason of past useful services, he was supposed to have some powerful
                        connections. He liked to be called into any case largely because it meant something to do and
                        kept him from being bored. When compelled to keep an appointment in winter, he would slip on an
                        old greatcoat of gray twill that he had worn until it was shabby, then, taking down a soft felt
                        hat, twisted and pulled out of shape by use, he would pull it low over his dull gray eyes and
                        amble forth. In summer his clothes looked as crinkled as though he had slept in them for weeks.
                        He smoked. In cast of countenance he was not wholly unlike General Grant, with a short gray
                        beard and mustache which always seemed more or less unkempt and hair that hung down over his
                        forehead in a gray mass. The poor General! He was neither very happy nor very unhappya doubting
                        Thomas without faith or hope in humanity and without any particular affection for anybody.
                    "I'll tell you how it is with these small councils, Mr.
                        Cowperwood," observed Van Sickle, sagely, after the preliminaries of the first
                        interview had been dispensed with. "They're worse than the city council
                        almost, and that's about as bad as it can be. You can't do anything without
                        money where these little fellows are concerned. I don't like to be too hard on men, but
                        these fellows" He shook his head.
                    "I understand," commented Cowperwood. "They're
                        not very pleasing, even after you make all allowances."
                    "Most of them," went on the General, "won't stay
                        put when you think you have them. They sell out. They're just as apt as not to run to
                        this North Side Gas Company and tell them all about the whole thing before you get well under
                        way. Then you have to pay them more money, rival bills will be introduced, and all
                        that." The old  General pulled a long face.
                        "Still, there are one or two of them that are all right," he added,
                        "if you can once get them interestedMr. Duniway and Mr. Gerecht."
                    "I'm not so much concerned with how it has to be done,
                        General," suggested Cowperwood, amiably, "but I want to be sure that it will
                        be done quickly and quietly. I don't want to be bothered with details. Can it be done
                        without too much publicity, and about what do you think it is going to cost?"
                    "Well, that's pretty hard to say until I look into the
                        matter," said the General, thoughtfully. "It might cost only four and it might
                        cost all of forty thousand dollarseven more. I can't tell. I'd like to take a
                        little time and look into it." The old gentleman was wondering how much Cowperwood was
                        prepared to spend.
                    "Well, we won't bother about that now. I'm willing to be
                        as liberal as necessary. I've sent for Mr. Sippens, the president of the Lake View Gas
                        and Fuel Company, and he'll be here in a little while. You will want to work with him
                        as closely as you can."
                    The energetic Sippens came after a few moments, and he and Van Sickle, after being
                        instructed to be mutually helpful and to keep Cowperwood's name out of all matters
                        relating to this work, departed together. They were an odd pairthe dusty old General phlegmatic,
                        disillusioned, useful, but not inclined to feel so; and the smart, chipper Sippens, determined
                        to wreak a kind of poetic vengeance on his old-time enemy, the South Side Gas Company, via this seemingly remote Northside conspiracy. In ten minutes
                        they were hand in glove, the General describing to Sippens the penurious and unscrupulous brand
                        of Councilman Duniway's politics and the friendly but expensive character of Jacob
                        Gerecht. Such is life.
                    In the organization of the Hyde Park company Cowperwood, because he never cared to
                        put all his eggs in one basket, decided to secure a. second lawyer and a. second dummy
                        president, although he proposed to keep De Soto Sippens as general practical adviser for all
                        three or four companies. He was thinking this matter over when there appeared on the scene a
                        very much younger man than the old General, one Kent Barrows McKibben, the  only son of ex-Judge Marshall Scammon McKibben, of the State Supreme
                        Court. Kent McKibben was thirty-three years old, tall, athletic, and, after a fashion, handsome.
                        He was not at all vague intellectuallythat is, in the matter of the conduct of his businessbut
                        dandified and at times remote. He had an office in one of the best blocks in Dearborn Street,
                        which he reached in a reserved, speculative mood every morning at nine, unless something
                        important called him down-town earlier. It so happened that he had drawn up the deeds and
                        agreements for the real-estate company that sold Cowperwood his lots at Thirty-seventh Street
                        and Michigan Avenue, and when they were ready he journeyed to the latter's office to
                        ask if there were any additional details which Cowperwood might want to have taken into
                        consideration. When he was ushered in, Cowperwood turned to him his keen, analytical eyes and
                        saw at once a personality he liked. McKibben was just remote and artistic enough to suit him. He
                        liked his clothes, his agnostic unreadableness, his social air. McKibben, on his part, caught
                        the significance of the superior financial atmosphere at once. He noted Cowperwood's
                        light-brown suit picked out with strands of red, his maroon tie, and small cameo cuff-links. His
                        desk, glass-covered, looked clean and official. The woodwork of the rooms was all cherry,
                        hand-rubbed and oiled, the pictures interesting steel-engravings of American life, appropriately
                        framed. The typewriterat that time just introducedwas in evidence, and the stock-tickeralso
                        newwas ticking volubly the prices current. The secretary who waited on Cowperwood was a young
                        Polish girl named Antoinette Nowak, reserved, seemingly astute, dark, and very attractive.
                    "What sort of business is it you handle, Mr. McKibben?" asked
                        Cowperwood, quite casually, in the course of the conversation. And after listening to
                        McKibben's explanation he added, idly: "You might come and see me some time
                        next week. It is just possible that I may have something in your line."
                    In another man McKibben would have resented this remote suggestion of future aid.
                        Now, instead, he was intensely pleased. The man before him gripped his  imagination. His remote intellectuality relaxed. When he came again
                        and Cowperwood indicated the nature of the work he might wish to have done McKibben rose to the
                        bait like a fish to a fly.
                    "I wish you would let me undertake that, Mr. Cowperwood," he said,
                        quite eagerly. "It's something I've never done, but I'm
                        satisfied I can do it. I live out in Hyde park and Know most of the councilmen. I can bring
                        considerable influence to bear for you."
                    Cowperwood smiled pleasantly.
                    So a second company, officered by dummies of McKibben's selection, was
                        organized. De Soto Sippens, without old General Van Sickle's knowledge, was taken in as
                        practical adviser. An application for a franchise was drawn up, and Kent Barrows McKibben began
                        silent, polite work on the South Side, coming into the confidence, by degrees, of the various
                        councilmen.
                    There was still a third lawyer, Burton Stimson, the youngest but assuredly not the
                        least able of the three, a pale, dark-haired Romeoish youth with burning eyes, whom Cowperwood
                        had encountered doing some little work for Laughlin, and who was engaged to work on the West
                        Side with old Laughlin as ostensible organizer and the sprightly De Soto Sippens as practical
                        adviser. Stimson was no mooning Romeo, however, but an eager, incisive soul, born very poor,
                        eager to advance himself. Cowperwood detected that pliability of intellect which, while it might
                        spell disaster to some, spelled success for him. He wanted the intellectual servants. He was
                        willing to pay them handsomely, to keep them busy, to treat them with almost princely courtesy,
                        but he must have the utmost loyalty. Stimson, while maintaining his calm and reserve, could have
                        kissed the arch-episcopal hand. Such is the subtlety of contact.
                    Behold then at once on the North Side, the South Side, the West Sidedark goings to
                        and fro and walkings up and down in the earth. In Lake View old General Van Sickle and De Soto
                        Sippens, conferring with shrewd Councilman Duniway, druggist, and with Jacob Gerecht, ward boss
                        and wholesale butcher, both of whom were agreeable but exacting,  holding pleasant back-room and drug-store confabs with almost tabulated
                        details of rewards and benefits. In Hyde Park, Mr. Kent Barrows McKibben, smug and well dressed,
                        a Chesterfield among lawyers, and with him one J. J. Bergdoll, a noble hireling, long-haired and
                        dusty, ostensibly president of the Hyde Park Gas and Fuel Company, conferring with Councilman
                        Alfred B. Davis, manufacturer of willow and rattan ware, and Mr. Patrick Gilgan, saloon-keeper,
                        arranging a prospective distribution of shares, offering certain cash consideration, lots,
                        favors, and the like. Observe also in the village of Douglas and West Park on the West Side,
                        just over the city line, the angular, humorous Peter Laughlin and Burton Stimson arranging a
                        similar deal or deals.
                    The enemy, the city gas companies, being divided into three factions, were in no way
                        prepared for what was now coming. When the news finally leaked out that applications for
                        franchises had been made to the several corporate village bodies each old company suspected the
                        other of invasion, treachery, robbery. Pettifogging lawyers were sent, one by each company, to
                        the village council in each particular territory involved, but no one of the companies had as
                        yet the slightest idea who was back of it all or of the general plan of operations. Before any
                        one of them could reasonably protest, before it could decide that it was willing to pay a very
                        great deal to have the suburb adjacent to its particular territory left free, before it could
                        organize a legal fight, councilmanic ordinances were introduced giving the applying company what
                        it sought; and after a single reading in each case and one open hearing, as the law compelled,
                        they were almost unanimously passed. There were loud cries of dismay from minor suburban papers
                        which had almost been forgotten in the arrangement of rewards. The large city newspapers cared
                        little at first, seeing these were outlying districts; they merely made the comment that the
                        villages were beginning well, following in the steps of the city council in its distinguished
                        career of crime.
                    Cowperwood smiled as he saw in the morning papers the announcement of the passage of
                        each ordinance granting him a franchise. He listened with comfort thereafter  on many a day to accounts by Laughlin, Sippens,
                        McKibben, and Van Sickle of overtures made to buy them out, or to take over their franchises. He
                        worked on plans with Sippens looking to the actual introduction of gas-plants. There were bond
                        issues now to float, stock to be marketed, contracts for supplies to be awarded, actual
                        reservoirs and tanks to be built, and pipes to be laid. A pumped-up public opposition had to be
                        smoothed over. In all this De Soto Sippens proved a trump. With Van Sickle, McKibben, and
                        Stimson as his advisers in different sections of the city he would present tabloid propositions
                        to Cowperwood, to which the latter had merely to bow his head in assent or say no. Then De Soto
                        would buy, build, and excavate. Cowperwood was so pleased that he was determined to keep De Soto
                        with him permanently. De Soto was pleased to think that he was being given a chance to pay up
                        old scores and to do large things; he was really grateful.
                    "We're not through with those sharpers," he declared to
                        Cowperwood, triumphantly, one day. "They'll fight us with suits. They may join
                        hands later. They blew up my gas-plant. They may blow up ours.
                    "Let them blow," said Cowperwood. "We can blow, too, and
                        sue also. I like lawsuits. We'll tie them up so that they'll beg for
                        quarter." His eyes twinkled cheerfully.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    IN SEARCH OF VICTORY
                    IN the mean time the social affairs of Aileen had been prospering in a small way, for
                        while it was plain that they were not to be taken up at oncethat was not to be expectedit was
                        also plain that they were not to be ignored entirely. One thing that helped in providing a nice
                        harmonious working atmosphere was the obvious warm affection of Cowperwood for his wife. While
                        many might consider Aileen a little brash or crude, still in the hands of so strong and capable
                        a man as Cowperwood she might prove available. So thought Mrs. Addison, for instance, and Mrs.
                        Rambaud. McKibben and Lord felt the same way. If Cowperwood loved her, as he seemed to do, he
                        would probably "put her through" successfully. And he really did love her,
                        after his fashion. He could never forget how splendid she had been to him in those old days
                        when, knowing full well the circumstances of his home, his wife, his children, the probable
                        opposition of her own family, she had thrown over convention and sought his love. How freely she
                        had given of hers! No petty, squeamish bickering and dickering here. He had been "her
                        Frank" from the start, and he still felt keenly that longing in her to be with him, to
                        be his, which had produced those first wonderful, almost terrible days. She might quarrel, fret,
                        fuss, argue, suspect, and accuse him of flirtation with other women; but slight variations from
                        the norm m his case did not trouble herat least she argued that they wouldn't. She had
                        never had any evidence. She was ready to forgive him anything, she said, and she was, too, if
                        only he would love her.
                    "You devil," she used to say to him, playfully. "I know
                             you. I can see you looking around.
                        That's a nice stenographer you have in the office. I suppose it's her.
                    "Don't be silly, Aileen," he would reply.
                        "Don't be coarse. You know I wouldn't take up with a stenographer. An
                        office isn't the place for that sort of thing."
                    "Oh, isn't it? Don't silly me. I know you. Any old place
                        is good enough for you.
                    He laughed, and so did she. She could not help it. She loved him so. There was no
                        particular bitterness in tier assaults. She loved him, and very often he would take her in his
                        arms, kiss her tenderly, and coo: "Are you my fine big baby? Are you my red-headed
                        doll? Do you really love me so much? Kiss me, then." Frankly, pagan passion in these
                        two ran high. So long as they were not alienated by extraneous things he could never hope for
                        more delicious human contact. There was no reaction either, to speak of, no gloomy disgust. She
                        was physically acceptable to him. He could always talk to her in a genial, teasing way, even
                        tender, for she did not offend his intellectuality with prudish or conventional notions. Loving
                        and foolish as she was in some ways, she would stand blunt reproof or correction. She could
                        suggest in a nebulous, blundering way things that would be good for them to do. Most of all at
                        present their thoughts centered upon Chicago society, the new house, which by now had been
                        contracted for, and what it would do to facilitate their introduction and standing. Never did a
                        woman's life look more rosy, Aileen thought. It was almost too good to be true. Her
                        Frank was so handsome, so loving, so generous. There was not a small idea about' him.
                        What if he did stray from her at times? He remained faithful to her spiritually, and she knew as
                        yet of no single instance in which he had failed her. She little knew, as much as she knew, how
                        blandly he could lie and protest in these matters. But he was fond of her just the same, and he
                        really had not strayed to any extent.
                    By now also, Cowperwood had invested about one hundred thousand dollars in his
                        gas-company speculations, and he was jubilant over his prospects; the franchises were good for
                        twenty years. By that time he would be nearly sixty, and he would probably have bought, combined
                        with,  or sold out to the older companies at a great
                        profit. The future of Chicago was all in his favor. He decided to invest as much as thirty
                        thousand dollars in pictures, if he could find the right ones, and to have Aileen s portrait
                        painted while she was still so beautiful. This matter of art was again beginning to interest him
                        immensely. Addison had four or five good picturea Rousseau, a Greuze, a wouverman, and one
                        Lawrencepicked up Heaven knows where. A hotel-man by the name of Collard, a dry-goods and
                        real-estate merchant, was said to have a very striking collection. Addison had told him of one
                        Davis Trask, a hardware prince, who was now collecting. There were many homes, he knew where art
                        was beginning to be assembled. He must begin, too.
                    Cowperwood, once the franchises had been secured, had installed Sippens in his own
                        office, giving him charge for the time being. Small rented offices and clerks were maintained
                        begun by the various old companies, but McKibben, Stimson, and old General Van Sickle were
                        fighting these with Trojan vigor and complacency. It was a pleasant scene. Still no one knew
                        very much of Cowperwood's entrance into Chicago as yet. He was a very minor figure. His
                        name had not even appeared in connection with this work. Other men were being celebrated daily,
                        a little to his envy. When would he begin to shine? Soon, now, surely. So off they went in June,
                        comfortable, rich, gay, in the best of health and spirits, intent upon enjoying to the full
                        their first holiday abroad.
                    It was a wonderful trip. Addison was good enough to telegraph flowers to New York for
                        Mrs. Cowperwood to be delivered on shipboard. McKibben sent books of travel. Cowperwood,
                        uncertain whether anybody would send flowers, ordered them himselftwo amazing baskets, which
                        with Addison's made three and these, with attached cards, awaited them in the lobby of
                        the main deck. Several at the captain's table took pains to seek out the Cowperwoods.
                        They were invited to join several card-parties and to attend informal concerts. It was a rough
                        passage, however,  and Aileen was sick. It was hard to
                        make herself look just nice enough, and so she kept to her room. She was very haughty, distant
                        to all but a few, and to these careful of her conversation. She felt herself coming to be a very
                        important person.
                    Before leaving she had almost exhausted the resources of the Donovan establishment in
                        Chicago. Lingerie, boudoir costumes, walking-costumes, riding-costumes, evening costumes she
                        possessed m plenty. She had a jewel-bag hidden away about her person containing all of thirty
                        thousand dollars' worth of jewels. Her shoes, stockings, hats, and accessories in
                        general were innumerable. Because of all this Cowperwood was rather proud of her. She had such a
                        capacity for life. His first wife had been pale and rather anemic, while Aileen was fairly
                        bursting with sheer physical vitality. She hummed and jested and primped and posed. There are
                        some souls that just are, without previous revision or introspection. The earth with all its
                        long past was a mere suggestion to Aileen, dimly visualized if at all. She may have heard that
                        there were once dinosaurs and flying reptiles, but if so it made no deep impression on her.
                        Somebody had said, or was saying, that we were descended from monkeys, which was quite absurd,
                        though it might be true enough. On the sea the thrashing hills of green water suggested a kind
                        of immensity and terror, but the captain at table in brass buttons and blue uniform, eager to be
                        nice to hertold her so. Her faith, really, was in the captain. And there with her, always, was
                        Cowperwood, looking at this whole, moving spectacle of life with a suspicious, not apprehensive,
                        but wary eye, and saying nothing about it.
                    In London letters given them by Addison brought several invitations to the opera, to
                        dinner, to Goodwood for a weekend, and so on. Carriages, tallyhoes, cabs for riding were
                        invoked. A week-end invitation to a houseboat on the Thames was secured. Their English hosts,
                        looking on all this as a financial adventure, good financial wisdom, were courteous and civil,
                        nothing more. Alieen was intensely curious. She noted servants, manners, forms. Immediately she
                        began to think that America  was not good enough,
                        perhaps; it wanted so many things.
                    "Now, Aileen, you and I have to live in Chicago for years and
                        years," commented Cowperwood. "Don't get wild. These people
                        don't care for Americans, can't you see that? They wouldn't accept us
                        if we were over herenot yet, anyhow. We're merely passing strangers, being courteously
                        entertained." Cowperwood saw it all.
                    Aileen was being spoiled in a way, but there was no help. She dressed and dressed.
                        The Englishmen used to look at her in Hyde Park, where she rode and drove; at
                        Claridges' where they stayed; in Bond Street, where she shopped. The Englishwomen, the
                        majority of them remote, ultra-conservative, simple in their tastes, lifted their eyes.
                        Cowperwood sensed the situation, but said nothing. He loved Aileen, and she was satisfactory to
                        him, at least for the present, anyhow, beautiful. If he could adjust her station in Chicago,
                        that would be sufficient for a beginning. After three weeks of very active life, during which
                        Aileen patronized the ancient and honorable glories of England, they went on to Paris.
                    Here she was quickened to a child-like enthusiasm. "You know," she
                        said to Cowperwood, quite solemnly, the second morning, the English don't know how to
                        dress. I thought they did, but the smartest of them copy the French. Take those men we saw last
                        night in the Caf$eA d'Anglais. There wasn't an Englishman I saw that compared
                        with them."
                    "My dear, your tastes are exotic," replied Cowperwood, who was
                        watching her with pleased interest while he adjusted his tie. "The French smart crowd
                        are almost too smart, dandified. I think some of those young fellows had on corsets."
                    "What of it?" replied Aileen. "I like it. If
                        you're going to be smart, why not be very smart?"
                    "I know that's your theory, my dear," he said,
                        "but it can be overdone. There is such a thing as going too far. You have to compromise
                        even if you don't look as well as you might. You can't be too very
                        conspicuously different from your neighbors, even in the right direction."
                    "You know," she said, stopping and looking at him, "I  believe you're going to get very
                        conservative some day like my brothers."
                    She came over and touched his tie and smoothed his hair.
                    "Well, one of us ought to be, for the good of the family," he
                        commented, half smiling.
                    "I'm not so sure, though, that it will be you, either."
                    "It's a charming day. See how nice those white-marble statues look.
                        Shall we go to the Cluny or Versailles or Fontainbleau? To-night we ought to see Bernhardt at
                        the Fran$cLaise."
                    Aileen was so gay. It was so splendid to be traveling with her true husband at last.
                    It was on this trip that Cowperwood's taste for art and life and his
                        determination to possess them revived to the fullest. He made the acquaintance in London, Paris,
                        and Brussels of the important art dealers. His conception of great masters and the older schools
                        of art shaped themselves. By one of the dealers in London, who at once recognized in him a
                        possible future patron, he was invited with Aileen to view certain private collections, and here
                        and there was an artist, such as Lord Leighton, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, or Whistler, to whom he
                        was introduced strong, polite, remote, conservative man. He realized the emotional, egotistic,
                        and artistic soul. He felt on the instant that there could be little in common between such men
                        and himself in so far as personal contact was concerned, yet there was mutual ground on which
                        they could meet. He could not be a slavish admirer of anything, only a princely patron. So he
                        walked and saw, wondering how soon his dreams of grandeur were to be realized.
                    In London he bought a portrait by Raeburn; in Paris a plowing scene by Millet, a
                        small Jan Steen, a battle piece by Meissonier, and a romantic courtyard scene by Isabey. Thus
                        began the revival of his former interest in art; the nucleus of that future collection which was
                        to mean so much to him in later years.
                    On their return, the building of the new Chicago mansion created the next interesting
                        diversion in the lives of Aileen and Cowperwood. Because of some chateaux they saw in France
                        that form, or rather a modification of it as 
                        suggested by Taylor Lord, was adopted. Mr. Lord figured that it would take all of a year,
                        perhaps a year and a half, to deliver it in perfect order, but time was of no great importance
                        in this connection. In the mean while they could strengthen their social connections and prepare
                        for that interesting day when they should be of the Chicago $eAlite.
                    There were, at this time, several elements in Chicagothose who, having grown suddenly
                        rich from dull poverty, could not so easily forget the village church and the village social
                        standards; those who, having inherited wealth, or migrated from the East where wealth was old,
                        understood more of the savoir faire of the game; and those who,
                        being newly born into wealth and seeing the drift toward a smarter American life, were beginning
                        to wish they might shine in it these last the very young people. The latter were just beginning
                        to dream of dances at Kinsley's, a stated Kirmess, and summer diversions of the
                        European kind, but they had not arrived as yet. The first class, although by far the dullest and
                        most bovine, was still the most powerful because they were the richest, money as yet providing
                        the highest standard. The functions which these people provided were stupid to the verge of
                        distraction; really they were only the week-day receptions and Sunday-afternoon calls of
                        Squeedunk and Hohokus raised to the nth power. The purpose of the
                        whole matter was to decidedly eschewed. It was, as a matter of fact, customariness that was
                        desired. The idea of introducing a "play actress," for instance, as was done
                        occasionally in the East or in Londonnever; even a singer or an artist was eyed askance. One
                        could easily go too far! But if a European prince should have strayed to Chicago (which he never
                        did) or if an Eastern social magnate chanced to stay over a train or two, then the topmost
                        circle of local wealth was prepared to strain itself to the breaking-point.
                    Cowperwood had sensed all this on his arrival, but he fancied that if he became rich
                        and powerful enough he and Aileen, with their fine house to help them, might well be the leaven
                        which would lighten the whole lump. Unfortunately, Aileen was too obviously on the qui vive for those oppor 
                        tunities which might lead to social recognition and equality, if not supremacy. Like the savage,
                        unorganized for protection and at the mercy of the horrific caprice of nature, she was almost
                        tremulous at times with thoughts of possible failure. Almost at once she had recognized herself
                        as unsuited temperamentally for association with certain types of society women. The wife of
                        Anson Merrill, the great dry-goods prince, whom she saw in one of the downtown stores one day,
                        impressed her as much too cold and remote. Mrs. Merrill was a woman of superior mood and
                        education who found herself, in her own estimation, hard put to it for suitable companionship in
                        Chicago. She was Eastern-bredBostonand familiar in an offhand way with the superior world of
                        London, which she had visited several times. Chicago at its best was to her a sordid commercial
                        mess. She preferred New York or Washington, but she had to live here. Thus she patronized nearly
                        all of those with whom she condescended to associate, using an upward tilt of the head, a tired
                        droop of the eyelids, and a fine upward arching of the brows to indicate how trite it all was.
                    It was a Mrs. Henry Huddlestone who had pointed out Mrs. Merrill to Aileen. Mrs.
                        Huddlestone was the wife of a soap-manufacturer living very close to the Cowperwoods'
                        temporary home, and she and her husband were on the outer fringe of society. She had heard that
                        the Cowperwoods were people of wealth, that they were friendly with the Addisons, and that they
                        were going to build a two-hundred-thousand-dollar mansion. (The value of houses always grow in
                        the telling.) That was enough. She had called, being three doors away, to leave her card; and
                        Aileen, willing to curry favor here and there, had responded. Mrs. Huddlestone was a little
                        woman, not very attractive in appearance, clever in a social way, and eminently practical.
                    "Speaking of Mrs. Merrill," commented Mrs. Huddlestone, on this
                        particular day, "there she isnear the dress-goods counter. She always carries that
                        lorgnette in just that way."
                    Aileen turned and examined critically a tall, dark, slender woman of the high world
                        of the West, very remote, disdainful, superior.
                    
                    "You don't know her?" questioned Aileen, curiously,
                        surveying her at leisure.
                    "No," replied Mrs. Huddlestone, defensively. "They live on
                        the North Side, and the different sets don't mingle so much."
                    As a matter of fact, it was just the glory of the principal families that they were
                        above this arbitrary division of "sides," and could pick their associates from
                        all three divisions.
                    "Oh!" observed Aileen, nonchalantly. She was secretly irritated to
                        think that Mrs. Huddlestone should find it necessary to point out Mrs. Merrill to her as a
                        superior person.
                    "You know, she darkens her eyebrows a little, I think," suggested
                        Mrs. Huddlestone, studying her enviously. "Her husband, they say, isn't the
                        most faithful person in the world. There's another woman, a Mrs. Gladdens, that lives
                        very close to them that he's very much interested in."
                    "Oh!" said Aileen, cautiously? After her own Philadelphia
                        experience she had decided to be on her guard and not indulge in too much gossip. Arrows of this
                        particular kind could so readily fly in her direction.
                    "But her set is really much the smartest," complimented
                        Aileen's companion.
                    Thereafter it was Aileen's ambition to associate with Mrs. Anson Merrill, to
                        be fully and freely accepted by her. She did not know, although she might have feared, that that
                        ambition was never to be realized.
                    But there were others who had called at the first Cowperwood home, or with whom the
                        Cowperwoods managed to form an acquaintance. There were the Sunderland Sledds, Mr. Sledd being
                        general traffic manager of one of the southwestern railways entering the city, and gentleman of
                        taste and culture and some wealth; his wife an ambitious nobody. There were the Walter Rysam
                        Cottons, Cotton being a wholesale coffee-broker, but more especially a local social litterateur;
                        his wife a graduate of Vassar. There were the Nome Simmses, Simms being secretary and treasurer
                        of the Douglas Trust and Savings Company, and a power in another group of financial people, a
                        group entirely distinct from that represented by Addison and Rambaud.
                    
                    Others included the Stanislau Hoecksemas, wealthy furriers; the Duane Kingslands,
                        wholesale flour; the. Webster Israelses, packers; the Bradford Candas, jewelers. All these
                        people amounted to something socially. They all had substantial homes and substantial incomes,
                        so that they were worthy of consideration. The difference between Aileen and most of the women
                        involved a difference between naturalism and illusion. But this calls for some explanation.
                    To really know the state of the feminine mind at this time, one would have to go back
                        to that period in the Middle Ages when the Church flourished and the industrious poet, half
                        schooled in the facts of life, surrounded women with a mystical halo. Since that day the maiden
                        and the matron as well has been schooled to believe that she is of a finer clay than man, that
                        she was born to uplift him, and that her favors are priceless. This rose-tinted mist of romance,
                        having nothing to do with personal morality, has brought about, nevertheless, a holier-than-thou
                        attitude of women toward men, and even of women toward women. Now the Chicago atmosphere in
                        which Aileen found herself was composed in part of this very illusion. The ladies to whom she
                        had been introduced were of this high world of fancy. They conceived themselves to be in
                        fiction. Their husbands must be models, worthy of their high ideals, and other women must have
                        no blemish of any kind. Aileen, urgent, elemental, would have laughed at all this if she could
                        have understood. Not understanding, she felt diffident and uncertain of herself in certain
                        presences.
                    Instance in this connection Mrs. Norrie Simms, who was a satellite of Mrs. Anson
                        Merrill. To be invited to the Anson Merrills' for tea, dinner, luncheon, or to be
                        driven down-town by Mrs. Merrill, was paradise to Mrs. Simms. She loved to recite the bon mots of her idol, to discourse upon her astonishing degree of
                        culture, to narrate how people refused on occasion to believe that she was the wife of Anson
                        Merrill, even though she herself declared itthose old chestnuts of the social world which must
                        have had their origin in Egypt and Chaldea. Mrs. Simms herself was of a nondescript type, not a
                        real personage, clever, good-looking, tasteful, a social climber. The two Simms  children (little girls) had been taught all the
                        social graces of the dayto pose, smirk, genuflect, and the like, to the immense delight of their
                        elders. The nurse in charge Mrs. Simms had a high manner, eyes for those above her only, a
                        serene contempt for the commonplace world in which she had to dwell.
                    During the first dinner at which she entertained the Cowperwoods Mrs. Simms attempted
                        to dig into Aileen's Philadelphia history, asking if she knew the Arthur Leighs, the
                        Trevor Drakes, Roberta Willing, or the Martyn Walkers. Mrs. Simms did not know them herself, but
                        she had heard Mrs. Merrill speak of them, and that was enough of a handle whereby to swing them.
                        Aileen, quick on the defense, ready to lie manfully on her own behalf, assured her that she had
                        known them, as indeed she hadvery casuallyand before the rumor which connected her with
                        Cowperwood had been voiced abroad. This pleased Mrs. Simms.
                    "I must tell Nellie," she said, referring thus familiarly to Mrs.
                        Merrill.
                    Aileen feared that if this sort of thing continued it would soon be all over town
                        that she had been a mistress before she had been a wife, that she had been the unmentioned
                        corespondent in the divorce suit, and that Cowperwood had been in prison. Only his wealth and
                        her beauty could save her; and would they?
                    One night they had been to dinner at the Duane Kings-lands', and Mrs.
                        Bradford Canda had asked her, in what seemed a very significant way, whether she had ever met
                        her friend Mrs. Schuyler Evans, of Philadelphia. This frightened Aileen.
                    "Don't you suppose they must know, some of them, about
                        us?" she asked Cowperwood, on the way home.
                    "I suppose so," he replied, thoughtfully. "I'm
                        sure I don't know. I wouldn't worry about that if I were you. If you worry
                        about it you'll suggest it to them. I haven't e any secret ot my term in
                        prison in Philadelpnia, and I don't intend to. It wasn't a square deal, and
                        they had no right to put me there."
                    "I know, dear," replied Aileen, "it might not make so much
                        difference if they did know. I don't see why it  should. We are not the only ones that have had marriage troubles,
                        I'm sure."
                    "There's just one thing about this; either they accept us or they
                        don't. If they don't, well and good; we can't help it. We'll
                        go on and finish the house, and give them a chance to be decent. If they won't be,
                        there are other cities. Money will arrange matters in New Yorkthat I know. We can build a real
                        place there, and go in on equal terms if we nave money enoughand I will nave money enough, he
                        added, after a moment s pondering. Never fear. I'll make millions here, whether they
                        want me to or not, and after thatwell, after that, we'll see what we'll see.
                        Don't worry. I haven't seen many troubles in this world that money
                        wouldn't cure."
                    His teeth had that even set that they always assumed when he was dangerously in
                        earnest. He took Aileen's hand, however, and pressed it gently.
                    "Don't worry," he repeated. "Chicago
                        isn't the only city, and we won't be the poorest people in America, either, in
                        ten years. Just keep up your courage. It will all come out right. It's certain
                        to."
                    Aileen looked out on the lamp-lit length of Michigan Avenue, down which they were
                        rolling past many silent mansions. The tops of all the lamps were white, and gleamed through the
                        shadows, receding to a thin point. It was dark, but fresh and pleasant. Oh, if only
                        Frank's money could buy them position and friendship in this interesting world! if it
                        only would! She did not quite l realize how much on her own personality, or the lack of it, this
                        struggle depended.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    A TEST
                    THE opening of the house in Michigan Avenue occurred late in November in the fall of
                        eighteen seventy-eight, when Aileen and Cowperwood had been in Chicago about two years.
                        Altogether, between people whom they had met at the races, at various dinners and teas, and at
                        receptions of the Union and Calumet Clubs (to which Cowperwood, through Addison s backing, had
                        been admitted) and those whom McKibben and Lord influenced, they were able to send invitations
                        to about three hundred, of whom some two hundred and fifty responded. Up to this time, owing to
                        Cowperwood's quiet manipulation of his affairs, there had been no comment on his pastno
                        particular interest in it. He had money, affable ways, a magnetic personality. 1 he business men
                        of the citythose whom he met sociallywere inclined to consider him fascinating and very clever.
                        Aileen being beautiful and graceful for attention, was accepted at more or less her own value,
                        though the kingly high world knew them not.
                    It is amazing what a showing the socially unplaced can There was a weekly social
                        paper published in Chicago at this time, a rather able publication as such things go, which
                        Cowperwood, with McKibben's assistance, had pressed into service. Not much can be done
                        under any circumstances where the cause is not essentially strong; but where, as in this case,
                        there is a semblance of respectability, considerable wealth, and great force and magnetism, all
                        things are possible. Kent McKibben knew Horton Biggers, the editor, who was a rather desolate
                        and disillusioned person of forty-five, gray, and depressed-lookinga sort of human sponge or
                        barnacle who was only galvanized  into seeming
                        interest and cheerfulness by sheer necessity. Those were the days when the society editor was
                        accepted as a member of societyde factoand treated more as a
                        guest than a reporter, though even then the tendency was toward elimination. Working for
                        Cowperwood, and liking him, McKibben said to Biggers one evening:
                    "You know the Cowperwoods, don't you, Biggers?"
                    "No," replied the latter, who devoted himself barnacle-wise to the
                        more exclusive circles. "Who are they?"
                    "Why, he's a banker over here in La Salle Street. They're
                        from Philadelphia. Mrs. Cowperwood's a beautiful womanyoung and all that.
                        They're building a house out here on Michigan Avenue. You ought to know them.
                        They're going to get in, I think. The Addisons like them. If you were to be nice to
                        them now I think they'd appreciate it later. He's rather liberal, and a good
                        fellow."
                    Biggers pricked up his ears. This social journalism was thin picking at best, and he
                        had very few ways of turning an honest penny. The would be's and half-in's who
                        expected nice things said of them had to subscribe, and rather liberally, to his paper. Not long
                        after this brief talk Cowperwood received a subscription blank from the business office of the
                            Saturday Review, and immediately sent a check for one hundred
                        dollars to Mr. Horton Biggers direct. Subsequently certain not very significant personages
                        noticed that when the Cowperwoods dined at their boards the function received comment by the Saturday Review, not otherwise. It looked as though the
                        Cowperwoods must be favored; but who were they, anyhow?
                    The danger of publicity, and even moderate social success, is that scandal loves a
                        shining mark. When you begin to stand out the least way in life, as separate from the mass, the
                        cognoscenti wish to know who, what, and why. The enthusiasm of Aileen, combined with the genius
                        of Cowperwood, was for making their opening entertainment a very exceptional affair, which,
                        under the circumstances, and all things considered, was a dangerous thing to do. As yet Chicago
                        was exceedingly slow socially. Its movements were, as has been said, more or less bovine and
                        phlegmatic. To rush in with something utterly brilliant and pyrotechnic  was to take notable chances. The more cautious members of Chicago
                        society, even if they did not attend, would hear, and then would come ultimate comment and
                        decision.
                    The function began with a reception at four, which lasted until six-thirty, and this
                        was followed by a dance at nine, with music by a famous stringed orchestra of Chicago, a musical
                        programme by artists of considerable importance, and a gorgeous supper from eleven until one in
                        a Chinese fairyland of lights, at small tables filling three of the ground-floor rooms. As an
                        added fillip to the occasion Cowperwood had hung, not only the important pictures which he had
                        purchased abroad, but a new onea particularly brilliant Ger$oCme, then in the heyday of his
                        exotic popularitya picture of nude odalisques of the harem, idling beside the highly colored
                        stone marquetry of an oriental bath. It was more or less "loose" art for
                        Chicago, shocking to the uninitiated, though harmless enough to the iluminati; but it gave a
                        touch of color to the art-gallery which the latter needed. There was also, newly arrived and
                        newly hung, a portrait of Aileen by a Dutch artist, Jan van Beers, whom they had encountered the
                        previous summer at Brussels. He had painted Aileen in nine sittings, a rather brilliant canvas,
                        high in key, with a summery, out-of-door world behind hera low stone-curbed pool, the red corner
                        of a Dutch brick palace, a tulip-bed, and a blue sky with fleecy clouds. Aileen was seated on
                        the curved arm of a stone bench, green grass at her feet, a pink-and white parasol with a lacy
                        edge held idly to one side; her rounded, vigorous figure clad in the latest mode of Paris a
                        white-banded straw hat, wide-brimmed, airy, shading her lusty, animal eyes. The artist had
                        caught her spirit quite accurately, the dash, the assumption, the bravado based on the courage
                        of inexperience, or lack of true subtlety. A refreshing thing in its way, a little showy, as
                        everything that related to her was, and inclined to arouse jealousy in those not so liberally
                        endowed by life, but fine as a character piece. In the warm glow of the guttered gas-jets she
                        looked particularly brilliant hare, pampered, idle, jauntythe well-kept, stall-fed pet of the
                        world. Many stopped to see and many were the comments, private and otherwise.
                    
                    This day began with a flurry of uncertainty and worried anticipation on the part of
                        Aileen. At Cowperwood's suggestion she had employed a social secretary, a poor hack of
                        a girl, who had sent out all the letters, tabulated the replies, run errands, and advised on one
                        detail and another. Fadette, her French maid, was in the throes of preparing for two toilets
                        which would have to be made this day, one by two o'clock at least, another between six
                        and eight. Her "mon dieus" and "par bleus" could be heard continuously as she hunted
                        for some article of dress or polished an ornament, buckle, or pin. The struggle of Aileen to be
                        perfect was, as usual, severe. Her meditations, as to the most becoming gown to wear were
                        trying. Her portrait was on the east wall in the art-gallery, a spur to emulation; she felt as
                        though all society were about to judge her. Theresa felt as though all society were about to
                        judge her. Theresa Donovan, the local dressmaker, had given some advice; but Aileen decided on a
                        heavy brown velvet constructed by Worth, of Parisa thing of varying aspects, showing her neck
                        and arms to perfection, and composing charmingly with her flesh and hair. She tried amethyst
                        ear-rings and changed to topaz; she stockinged her legs in brown silk, and her feet were shod in
                        brown slippers with red enamel buttons.
                    The trouble with Aileen was that she never did these things with that ease which is a
                        sure sign of the socially efficient. She never quite so much dominated a situation as she
                        permitted it to dominate her. Only the superior ease and graciousness of Cowperwood carried her
                        through at times; but that always did. When he was near she felt quite the great lady, suited to
                        any realm. When she was alone her courage, great as it was, often trembled in the balance. Her
                        dangerous past was never quite out of her mind.
                    At four Kent McKibben, smug in his afternoon frock, his quick, receptive eyes
                        approving only partially of all this show and effort, took his place in the general
                        reception-room, talking to Taylor Lord, who had completed his last observation and was leaving
                        to return later in the evening. If these two had been closer friends, quite intimate, they would
                        have discussed the Cowperwoods' social prospects; but as it was, they confined
                        themselves to dull conventionalities.  At this moment
                        Aileen came down-stairs for a moment, radiant. Kent McKibben thought he had never seen her look
                        more beautiful. After all, contrasted with some of the stuffy creatures who moved about in
                        society, shrewd, hard, bony, calculating, trading on their assured position, she was admirable.
                        It was a pity she did not have more poise; she ought to be a little hardernot quite so genial.
                        Still, with Cowperwood at her side, she might go far.
                    "Really, Mrs. Cowperwood," he said, "it is all most
                        charming. I was just telling Mr. Lord here that I consider the house a triumph."
                    From McKibben, who was m society, and with Lord, another "in"
                        standing by, this was like wine to Aileen. She beamed joyously.
                    Among the first arrivals were Mrs. Webster Israels, Mrs. Bradford Canda, and Mrs.
                        Walter Rysam Cotton, who were to assist in receiving. These ladies did not know that they were
                        taking their future reputations for sagacity and discrimination in their hands; they had been
                        carried away by the show of luxury of Aileen, the growing financial repute of Cowperwood, and
                        the artistic qualities of the new house. Mrs. Webster Israels's mouth was of such a
                        peculiar shape that Aileen was always reminded of a fish; but she was not utterly homely, and
                        to-day she looked brisk and attractive. Mrs. Bradford Canda, whose old rose and silver-gray
                        dress made up in part for an amazing angularity, but who was charming withal, was the soul of
                        interest, for she believed this to be a very significant affair. Mrs. Walter Rysam Cotton, a
                        younger woman than either of the others, had the polish of Vassar life about her, and was
                        "above" many things. Somehow she half suspected the Cowperwoods might not do,
                        but they were making strides, and might possibly surpass all other aspirants. It behooved her to
                        be pleasant.
                    Life passes from individuality and separateness at times to a sort of Monticelliesque
                        mood of color, where individuality is nothing, the glittering totality all. The new house, with
                        its charming French windows on the ground floor, its heavy bands of stone flowers and deep-sunk
                        florated door, was soon crowded with a moving, colorful flow of people.
                    
                    Many whom Aileen and Cowperwood did not know at all had been invited by McKibben and
                        Lord; they came, and were now introduced. The adjacent side streets and the open space in front
                        of the house were crowded with champing horses and smartly veneered carnages. All with whom the
                        Cowperwoods had been the least intimate came early, and, finding the scene colorful and
                        interesting, they remained for some time. The caterer, Kinsley, had supplied diers, and
                        carefully supervised by the Cowperwood butler. The new dining-room, rich with a Pompeian scheme
                        or color, was aglow with a wealth of glass and an artistic arrangement of delicacies. The
                        afternoon costumes of the women, ranging through autumnal grays, purples, browns, and greens,
                        blended effectively with the brown-tinted walls of the entry-hall, the deep gray and gold of the
                        general living-room, the old-Roman red of the dining-room, the white-and-gold of the music-room,
                        and the neutral sepia of the art-gallery.
                    Aileen, backed by the courageous presence of Cowperwood, who, in the dining-room, the
                        library, and the art-gallery, was holding a private levee of men, stood up in her vain beauty, a
                        thing to seealmost to weep over, embodying the vanity of all seeming things, the mockery of
                        having and yet not having. This parading throng that was to observe.
                    "Do you know, Mrs. Cowperwood," Mrs. Simms remarked, lightly,
                        "your house reminds me of an art exhibit to-day. I hardly know why."
                    Aileen, who caught the implied slur, had no clever words wherewith to reply. She was
                        not gifted in that way, but she flared with resentment.
                    "Do you think so?" she replied, caustically.
                    Mrs. Simms, not all dissatisfied with the effect she had produced, passed on with a
                        gay air, attended by a young artist who followed amorously in her train.
                    Aileen saw from this and other things like it how little she was really
                        "in." The exclusive set did not take either her or Cowperwood seriously as
                        yet. She almost hated  the comparatively dull Mrs.
                        Israels, who had been standing beside her at the time, and who had heard the remark; and yet
                        Mrs. Israels was much better than nothing. Mrs. Simms had condescended a mild
                        "how'd do" to the latter.
                    It was in vain chat the Addisons, Sledds, Kingslands, Hoecksemas, and others made
                        their appearance; Aileen was not reassured. However, after dinner the younger set, influenced by
                        McKibben, came to dance, and Aileen was at her best in spite of her doubts. She was gay, bold,
                        attractive. Kent McKibben, a past master in the mazes and mysteries of the grand march, had the
                        pleasure of leading her in that airy, fairy procession, followed by Cowperwood, who gave his arm
                        to Mrs. Simms. Aileen, m white satin with a touch of silver here and there and necklet,
                        bracelet, ear-rings, and hair-ornament of diamonds, glittered in almost an exotic way. She was
                        positively radiant. McKibben, almost smitten, was most attentive.
                    "This is such a pleasure," he whispered, intimately. "You
                        are very beautifula dream!"
                    You would find me a very substantial one, returned Aileen.
                    "Would that I might find," he laughed, gaily; and Aileen, gathering
                        the hidden significance, showed her teeth teasingly. Mrs. Simms, engrossed by Cowperwood, could
                        not hear as she would have liked.
                    After the march Aileen, surrounded by a half-dozen of gay, rudely thoughtless young
                        bloods, escorted them all to see her portrait. The conservative commented on the flow of wine,
                        the intensely nude Ger$oCme at one end of the gallery, and the sparkling portrait of Aileen at
                        the other, the enthusiasm of some of the young men for her company. Mrs. Rambaud, pleasant and
                        kindly, remarked to her husband that Aileen was "very eager for life," she
                        thought. Mrs. Addison, astonished at the material flare of the Cowperwoods, quite transcending
                        in glitter if not in size and solidity anything she and Addison had ever achieved, remarked to
                        her husband that "he must be making money very fast."
                    "The man's a born financier, Ella," Addison explained,
                        make money. Whether they can get into society I don't  know. He could if he were alone, that's sure. She's
                        beautiful, but he needs another kind of woman, I'm afraid. She's almost too
                        good-looking."
                    "That's what I think, too. I like her, but I'm afraid
                        she's not going to play her cards right. It's too bad, too."
                    Just then Aileen came by, a smiling youth on either side, her own face glowing with a
                        warmth of joy engendered by much flattery. The ball-room, which was composed of the music and
                        drawing rooms thrown into one, was now the objective. It glittered before her with a moving
                        throng; the air was full of the odor of flowers, and the sound of music and voices.
                    "Mrs. Cowperwood," observed Bradford Canda to Horton Biggers, the
                        society editor, "is one of the prettiest women I have seen in a long time.
                        She's almost too pretty."
                    "How do you think she's taking?" queried the cautious
                        Biggers.
                    "Charming, but she's hardly cold enough, I'm afraid;
                        hardly clever enough. It takes a more serious type. She's i a little too high-spirited.
                        These old women would never want to get near her; she makes them look too old. She'd do
                        better if she were not so young and so pretty."
                    "That's what I think exactly," said Biggers. As a matter
                        of fact, he did not think so at all; he had no power of drawing any such accurate conclusions.
                        But he believed it now, because Bradford Canda had said it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE FRUITS OF DARING
                    NEXT morning, over the breakfast cups at the Norrie Simmses' and elsewhere,
                        the import of the Cowperwoods' social efforts was discussed and the problem of their
                        eventual acceptance or non-acceptance carefully weighed.
                    "The trouble with Mrs. Cowperwood," observed Mrs. Simms,
                        "is that she is too gauche. The whole thing was much too showy. The idea of her
                        portrait at one end of the gallery and that Ger$oCme at the other! And then this item in the
                        Press this morning! Why, you'd really think they were in society." Mrs. Simms
                        was already a little angry at having let herself be used, as she now fancied she had been, by
                        Taylor Lord and Kent McKibben, both friends of hers.
                    "What did you think of the crowd?" asked Norrie, buttering a roll.
                    "Why, it wasn't representative at all, of course. We were the most
                        important people they had there, and I'm sorry now that we went. Who are the Israelses
                        and the Hoecksemas, anyhow? That dreadful woman!" (She was referring to Mrs.
                        Hoecksema.) "I never listened to duller remarks in my life."
                    "I wastalking to Haguenin of the Press in the
                        afternoon," observed Norrie. "He says that Cowperwood failed in Philadelphia
                        before he came here, and that there were a lot of lawsuits. Did you ever hear that?"
                    "No. But she says she knows the Drakes and the Walkers there. I've
                        been intending to ask Nellie about that. I have often wondered why he should leave Philadelphia
                        if he was getting along so well. People don't usually do that."
                    Simms was envious already of the financial showing  Cowperwood was making in Chicago. Besides, Cowperwood's bespoke
                        supreme intelligence and courage, and that is always resented by all save the suppliants or the
                        triumphant masters of other walks in life. Simms was really interested at last to know something
                        more about Cowperwood, something definite.
                    Before this social situation had time to adjust itself one way or the other, however,
                        a matter arose which in its way was far more vital, though Aileen might not have thought so. The
                        feeling between the new and old gas companies was becoming strained; the stockholders of the
                        older organization were getting uneasy. They were eager to find out who was back of these new
                        gas companies which threatening to poach on their exclusive preserves.
                    Finally one of the lawyers who had been employed by the North Chicago Gas
                        Illuminating Company to fight the machinations of De Soto Sippens and old General Van Sickle,
                        finding that the Lake View Council had finally granted the franchise to the new company and that
                        the Appellate Court was about to sustain it, hit upon the idea of charging conspiracy and
                        wholesale bribery of councilmen. Considerable evidence had accumulated that Duniway, Jacob
                        Gerecht, and others on the North Side had been influenced by cash, and to bring legal action
                        would delay final approval of the franchises and give the old company time to think what else to
                        do. This North Side company lawyer, a man by the name of Parsons, had been following up the
                        movements of Sippens and old General Van Sickle, and had finally concluded that they were mere
                        dummies and pawns, and that the real instigator in all this he represented. Parsons visited
                        Cowperwood's office one day in order to see him; getting no satisfaction, he proceeded
                        to look up his record and connections. These various investigations and counter-schemings came
                        to a head in a court proceeding filed in the United states Circuit Court late in November,
                        charging Frank Algernon Cowperwood, Henry De Soto Sippens, Judson P. Van Sickle, and others with
                        conspiracy; this again was followed almost immediately by suits begun by the West and South Side
                        companies  charging the same thing. In each case
                        Cowperwood's name was mentioned as the secret power behind the new companies,
                        conspiring to force the old companies to buy him out. His Philadelphia history was published,
                        'but only in parta highly modified account he had furnished the newspapers some time
                        before. Though conspiracy and bribery are ugly words, still lawyer's charges prove
                        nothing. But a penitentiary record, for whatever reason served, coupled with previous failure,
                        divorce, and scandal (though the newspapers made only the most guarded reference to all this),
                        served to whet public interest and to fix Cowperwood and his wife in the public eye.
                    Cowperwood himself was solicited for an interview, but his answer was that he was
                        merely a financial agent for the three new companies, not an investor; and that the charges in
                        so far as he was concerned, were untrue, mere legal fol-de-rol trumped up to make the situation
                        as annoying as possible. He threatened to sue for libel. Nevertheless, although these suits
                        eventually did come to nothing (for he had fixed it so that he could not be traced save as a
                        financial agent in each case), yet the charges had been made, and he was now revealed as a
                        shrewd, manipulative factor, with a record that was certainly spectacular.
                    "I see," said Anson Merrill to his wife one morning at breakfast,
                        "that this man Cowperwood is beginning to get his name in the papers." He had
                        the Times on the table before him, and was looking at a head-line
                        which, after the old-fashioned pyramids then in vogue, read: "Conspiracy charged
                        against various Chicago citizens. Frank Algernon Crowperwood, Judson P. Van Sickle, Henry De
                        soto Sippens, and other named in Circuit Court complaint." It went on to specify other
                        facts. "I supposed he was just a broker."
                    "I don't know much about them," replied his wife,
                        "except what Bella Simms tells me. What does it say?" He handed her the paper.
                    "I have always thought they were merely climbers," continued Mrs.
                        Merrill. "From what I hear she is impossible. I never saw her."
                    "He begins well for a Philadelphian," smiled Merrill.
                    "I've seen him at the Calumet. He looks like a very  shrewd man to me. He's going about his work
                        in a brisk Sprit, anyhow."
                    Similarly Mr. Norman Schryhart, a man who up to this time had taken no thought of
                        Cowperwood, although he had noted his appearance about the halls of the Calumet and Union League
                        Clubs, began to ask seriously who he was. Schryhart, a man of great physical and mental vigor,
                        six feet tall, hale and stolid as an ox, a very different type of man from Anson Merrill, met
                        Addison one day at the Calumet Club shortly after the newspaper talk began. Sinking into a great
                        leather divan beside him, he observed:
                    "Who is this man Cowperwood whose name is in the papers these days, Addison?
                        You know all these people. Didn't you introduce him to me once?"
                    "I surely did," replied Addison, cheerfully, who, in spite of the
                        attacks on Cowperwood, was rather pleased than otherwise. It was quite plain from the concurrent
                        excitement that attended all this struggle, that Cowperwood must be managing things rather
                        adroitly, and, best of all, he was keeping his backers' names from view.
                        "He's a Philadelphian by birth. He came out here several years ago, and went
                        into the grain and commission business. He's a banker now. A rather shrewd man, I
                        should say. He has a lot of money."
                    "Is it true, as the papers say, that he failed for a million in Philadelphia
                        in 1871?"
                    "In so far as I know, it is."
                    "Well, was he in the penitentiary down there?"
                    "I think soyes. I believe it was for nothing really criminal, though. There
                        appears to have been some political-financial mix-up, from all I can learn."
                    "And is he only forty, as the papers say?"
                    "About that, I should judge. Why?"
                    "Oh, this scheme of his looks rather pretentious to meholding up the old gas
                        companies here. Do you suppose hell manage to do it?
                    "I don't know that. All I know is what I have read in the
                        papers," replied Addison, cautiously. As a matter of fact, he did not care to talk
                        about this business at all. Cowperwood was busy at this very time, through an agent,  attempting to effect a compromise and union of all
                        interests concerned. It was going very well.
                    "Humph!" commented Schryhart. He was wondering why men like
                        himself, Merrill, Arneel, and others had not worked into this field long ago or bought out the
                        old companies. He went away interested, and a day or two latereven the next morninghad
                        formulated a scheme. Not unlike Cowperwood, he was a shrewd, hard, cold man. He believed in
                        Chicago implicitly and in all that related to its future. This gas situation, now that
                        Cowperwood had seen the point, was very clear to him. Even yet it might not be impossible for a
                        third party to step in and by intricate manipulation secure the much coveted rewards. Perhaps
                        Cowperwood himself could be taken overwho could tell?
                    Mr. Schryhart, being a very dominating type of person, did not believe in minor
                        partnerships or investments. If he went into a thing of this kind it was his preference to rule.
                        He decided to invite Cowperwood to visit the Schryhart office and talk matters over.
                        Accordingly, he had his secretary pen a note, which in rather lofty phrases invited Cowperwood
                        to call " on a matter of importance."
                    Now just at this time, it so chanced, Cowperwood was feeling rather secure as to his
                        place in the Chicago financial world, although he was still smarting from the bitterness of the
                        aspersions recently cast upon him from various quarters. Under such circumstances it was his
                        tempermanent to evince a rugged contempt for humanity, rich and poor alike. He was well aware
                        that Schryhart,' although introduced, had never previously troubled to notice him.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood begs me to say," wrote Miss Antoinette Nowak, at
                        his dictation, "that he finds himself very much pressed for time at present, but he
                        would be glad to see Mr. Schryhart at his office at any time."
                    This irritated the dominating, self-sufficient Schryhart a little, but nevertheless
                        he was satisfied that a conference could do no harm in this instancewas advisable, in fact, of
                        Cowperwood, and was most hospitably received.
                    "How do you do, Mr. Schryhart," observed Cowperwood,  cordially, extending his hand. "I'm
                        glad to see you again. I believe we net once before several years ago."
                    "I think so myself," replied Mr. Schryhart, who was
                        broad-shouldered, square-headed, black-eyed, and with a short black mustache gracing a firm
                        upper lip. He had hard, dark, piercing eyes. "I see by the papers, if they can be
                        trusted," he said, coming direct to the point, "that you are interesting
                        yourself in local gas. Is that true?"
                    "I'm afraid the papers cannot be generally relied on,"
                        replied Cowperwood, quite blandly. "Would you mind telling me what makes you interested
                        to know whether I am or not?"
                    "Well, to tell the truth," replied Schryhart, staring at the
                        financier, "I am interested in this local gas situation myself. It offers a rather
                        profitable field for investment, and several members of the old companies have come to me
                        recently to ask me to help them combine." (This was not true at all.) "I have
                        been wondering what chance you thought you had of winning along the lines you are now
                        taking."
                    Cowperwood smiled. "I hardly care to discuss that," he said,
                        "unless I know much more of your motives and connections than I do at present. Do I
                        understand that you have really been appealed to by stockholders of the old companies to come m
                        and help adjust this matter?"
                    "Exactly," said Schryhart.
                    "And you think you can get them to combine? On what basis?"
                    "Oh, I should say it would be a simple matter to give each of them two or
                        three shares of a new company for one in each of the old. We could then elect one set of
                        officers, have one set of offices, stop all these suits, and leave everybody happy."
                    He said this in an easy, patronizing way, as though Cowperwood had not really thought
                        it all out years before. It amazed the latter no little to see his own scheme patronizingly
                        brought back to him, and that, too, by a very powerful man locally-one who thus far had chosen
                        to overlook him utterly.
                    "On what basis," asked Cowperwood, cautiously, would you expect
                        these new companies to come in?"
                    
                    "On the same basis as the others, if they are not too heavily capitalized. I
                        haven't thought out all the details. The prejudices of these old companies have to be
                        considered."
                    Cowperwood meditated. Should or should he not entertain this offer? Here was a chance
                        to realize quickly by selling out to the old companies. Only Schryhart, not himself, would be
                        taking the big end in this manipulative deal. Whereas if he waitedeven if Schryhart managed to
                        combine the three old companies into onehe might be able to force better terms. He was not sure.
                        Finally he asked, "How much stock of the new company would be left in your handsor in
                        the hands of the organizing groupafter each of the old and new companies had been provided for
                        on this basis?"
                    "Oh, possibly thirty-five or forty per cent, of the whole," replied
                        Schryhart, ingratiatingly. "The laborer is worthy of his hire."
                    "Quite so," replied Cowperwood, smiling, "but, seeing that
                        I am the man who has been cutting the pole to knock this persimmon it seems to me that a pretty
                        good share of that should come to me; don't you think so?"
                    "Just what do you mean?"
                    "Just what I have said. I personally have organized the new companies which
                        have made this proposed combination possible. The plan you propose is nothing more than what I
                        have been proposing for some time. The officers and directors of the old companies are angry at
                        me merely because I am supposed to have invaded the fields that belong to them. Now, if on
                        account of that they are willing to operate through you rather than through me, it seems to me
                        that I should have a much larger share in the surplus. My personal interest in these new
                        companies is not very large. I am really more of a fiscal agent than anything else."
                        (This was not true, but Cowperwood preferred to have his guest think so.)
                    Schryhart smiled. "But, my dear sir," he explained, "you
                        forget that I will be supplying nearly all the capital to do this."
                    You forget," retorted Cowperwood, "that I am not a  novice. I will guarantee to supply all the capital
                        myself, and give you a good bonus for your services, if you want that. The plants and franchises
                        of the old and new companies are worth something. You must remember that Chicago is
                        growing."
                    "I know that," replied Schryhart, evasively, "but I also
                        know that you have a long, expensive fight ahead of you. As things are now you cannot, of
                        yourself, expect to bring these old companies to terms. They won't work with you, as I
                        understand it. It will require an outsider like myselfsome one of influence, or perhaps, I had
                        better say, of old standing in Chicago, some one who knows these peopleto bring about this
                        combination. Have you any one, do you think, who can do it better than I?"
                    "It is not at all impossible that I will find some one," replied
                        Cowperwood, quite easily.
                    "I hardly think so; certainly not as things are now. The old companies are
                        not disposed to work through you, and they are through me. Don't you think you had
                        better accept my terms and allow me to go ahead and close this matter up?"
                    "Not at all on that basis," replied Cowperwood, quite simply.
                        "We have invaded the enemies' country too far and done too much. Three for one
                        or four for onewhatever terms are given the stockholders of the old companies is the best I will
                        do about the new shares, and I must have one-half of whatever is left for myself. At that I will
                        have to divide with others." (This was not true either.)
                    "No," replied Schryhart, evasively and opposingly, shaking his
                        square head. It can t be done. The risks are too great. I might allow you one-fourth, possibleI
                        can't tell yet."
                    "One-half or nothing," said Cowperwood, definitely.
                    Schryhart got up. "That's the best you will do, is it?" he
                        inquired.
                    "The very best."
                    "I'm afraid then," he said, "we can't
                        come to terms. I'm sorry. You may find this a rather long and expensive
                        fight."
                    "I have fully anticipated that," replied the financier.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    A NEW RETAINER
                    COWPERWOOD, who had rebuffed Schryhart so courteously but firmly, was to learn that
                        he who takes the sword may well perish by the sword. His own watchful attorney, on guard at the
                        state capitol, where certificates of incorporation were issued in the city and village councils,
                        in the courts and so forth, was not long in learning that a General Van Sickle was the first to
                        report that something was in the wind in connection with the North Side company. He came in late
                        one afternoon, his dusty greatcoat thrown loosely about his shoulders, his small, soft hat low
                        over his shaggy eyes, and in response to Cowperwood's "Evening, General, what
                        can I do for you?" seated himself portentously.
                    "I think you'll have to prepare for real rough weather in the
                        future, Captain," he remarked, addressing the financier with a courtesy title that he
                        had fallen in the habit of using.
                    "What's the trouble now?" asked Cowperwood.
                    "No real trouble as yet, but there may be. Some oneI don't know
                        whois getting these three old companies been' applied "for at Springfield for
                        "he United Gas and Fuel Company of Chicago, and there are some directors'
                        meetings now going on at the Douglas Trust Company. I got this from Duniway, who seems to have
                        friends somewhere that know."
                    Cowperwood put the ends of his ringers together in his customary way and began to tap
                        them lightly and rhythmically.
                    "Let me seethe Douglas Trust Company. Mr. Simms  is president of that. He isn't shrewd enough to organize a thing of
                        that kind. Who are the incorporates.?"
                    The General produced a list of four names, none of them officers or directors of the
                        old companies.
                    "Dummies, every one," said Cowperwood, succinctly. "I
                        think I know," he said, after a few moments' reflection, "who is
                        behind it, General; but don't let that worry you. They can't harm us if they
                        do unite. They're bound to sell out to us or buy us out eventually."
                    Still it irritated him to think that Schryhart had succeeded in persuading the old
                        companies to combine on any basis; he had meant to have Addison go shortly, posing as an outside
                        party, and propose this very thing. Schryhart, he was sure, had acted swiftly following their
                        interview. He hurried to Addison's office in the Lake National.
                    "Have you heard the news?" exclaimed that individual, the moment
                        Cowperwood appeared. "They're planning to combine. It's Schryhart. I
                        was afraid of that. Simms of the Douglas Trust is going to act as the fiscal agent. I had the
                        information not ten minutes ago."
                    "So did I," replied Cowperwood, calmly. "We should have
                        acted a little sooner. Still, it isn't our fault exactly. Do you know the terms of
                        agreement?"
                    "They're going to pool their stock on a basis of three to one, with
                        about thirty per cent, of the holding company left for Schryhart to sell or keep, as he wants
                        to. He guarantees the interest. We did that for himdrove the game right into his bag."
                    "Nevertheless," replied Cowperwood, "he still has us to
                        deal with. I propose now that we go into the city council and ask for a blanket franchise. It
                        can be had. If we should get it, it will bring them to their knees. We will really be in a
                        better position than they are with these smaller companies as feeders. We can unite with
                        ourselves."
                    "That will take considerable money, won't it?"
                    "Not so much. We may never need to lay a pipe or build a plant. They will
                        offer to sell out, buy, or combine before that. We can fix the terms. Leave it to me. You
                        don't happen to know by any chance this Mr. McKenty, who has so much say in local
                        affairs here John J. McKenty?"
                    
                    Cowperwood was referring to a man who was at once gambler, rumored owner or
                        controller of a series of houses of prostitution, rumored maker of mayors and aldermen, rumored
                        financial backer of many saloons and contracting companiesin short, the patron saint of the
                        political and social underworld of Chicago, and who was naturally to be reckoned with in matters
                        which related to the city and state legislative programme.
                    "I don't," said Addison; "but I can get you a
                        letter. Why?"
                    "I'll have one for you to-day some time," replied Addison,
                        efficiently. "I'll send it over to you."
                    Cowperwood went out while Addison speculated as to this newest move. Trust Cowperwood
                        to dig a pit into which the enemy might fall. He marveled sometimes at the man's
                        resourcefulness. He never quarreled with the directness and incisiveness of
                        Cowperwood's action.
                    The man, McKenty, whom Cowperwood had in mind in this rather disturbing hour, was as
                        interesting and forceful an individual as one would care to meet anywhere, a typical figure of
                        Chicago and the West at the time. He was a pleasant, smiling, bland, affable person, not unlike
                        Cowperwood in magnetism and subtlety, but different by a degree of animal coarseness (not
                        visible on the surface) which Cowperwood would scarcely have understood, and in a kind of
                        temperamental pull drawing to him that vast pathetic life of the underworld in which his soul
                        found its solution. There is a kind of nature, not artistic, not spiritual, in no way emotional,
                        nor yet unduly philosophical, that is nevertheless a sphered content of life; not crystalline,
                        perhaps, and yet not utterly darkan agate temperament, cloudy and strange. As a three-year-old
                        child McKenty had been brought from Ireland by his emigrant parents during a period of famine.
                        He had been raised on the far South Side in a shanty which stood near a maze of railroad-tracks,
                        and as a naked baby he had crawled on its earthen floor. His father had been promoted to a
                        section boss after working for years as a day-laborer on the adjoining railroad, and John,
                        junior, one of eight other  children, had been sent
                        out early to do many thingsto be an errand-boy in a store, a messenger-boy for a telegraph
                        company, an emergency sweep about a saloon, and finally a bartender. This last was his true
                        beginning, for he was discovered by a keen-minded politician and encouraged to run for the state
                        legislature and to study law. Even as a stripling what things had he not learnedrobbery,
                        ballot-box stuffing, the sale of votes, the appointive power of leaders, graft, nepotism, vice
                        exploitationall the things that go to make up (or did) the American world of politics and
                        financial and social strife. There is a strong assumption in the upper walks of life that there
                        is nothing to be learned at the bottom. If you could have looked into the capacious but balanced
                        temperament of John J. McKenty you would have seen a strange wisdom there and stranger
                        memorieswhole worlds of brutalities, tendernesses, errors, immoralities suffered, endured, even
                        rejoiced inthe hardy, eager life of the animal that has nothing but its perceptions, instincts,
                        appetites to guide it. Yet the man had the air and the poise of a gentleman.
                    To-day, at forty-eight, McKenty was an exceedingly important personage. His roomy
                        house on the West Side, at Harrison Street and Ashland Avenue, was visited at sundry times by
                        financiers, business men, office-holders, priests, saloon-keepersin short, the whole range and
                        gamut of active, subtle, political life. From McKenty they could obtain that counsel, wisdom,
                        surety, solution which all of them on occasion were anxious to have, and which in one deft way
                        and anotheroften by no more than gratitude and an acknowledgment of his leadshipthey were
                        willing to pay for. To police captains and officers whose places he occasionally saved, when
                        they should justly have been discharged; to mothers whose erring boys or girls he took out of
                        prison and sent home again; to keepers of bawdy houses whom he protected from a too harsh
                        invasion of the grafting propensities of the local police; to politician and saloon-keepers who
                        were in danger of being destroyed by public upheavals of one kind and another, he seemed, in
                        hours of stress, when his smooth, genial, almost artistic face beamed on them, like a
                        heaven-sent son of light, a kind  of Western god,
                        all-powerful, all-merciful, perfect. On the other hand, there were ingrates, uncompromising or
                        pharisaical religionists and reformers, plotting, scheming rivals who found him deadly to
                        contend with. There were many henchmenrunners from an almost imperial throneto do his bidding.
                        He was simple in dress and taste, married and (apparently) very happy, a professing though
                        virtually non-practising Catholic, a suave, genial Buddha-like man, powerful and enigmatic.
                    When Cowperwood and Mc Kenty first met, it was on a spring evening at the
                        latter's home. The he windows of the large house were pleasantly open, though screened,
                        and the curtains were blowing faintly in a light air. Along with a sense of the new green life
                        everywhere came a breath of stock-yards.
                    On the presentation of Addison's letter and of another, secured through Van
                        Sickle from a well-known political judge, Cowperwood had been invited to call. On his arrival he
                        was offered a drink, a cigar, introduced to Mrs. McKentywho, lacking an organized social life of
                        any kind, was always pleased to meet these celebrities of the upper world, if only for a
                        momentand shown eventually into the library. Mrs. McKenty, as he might have observed if he had
                        had the eye for it, was plump and fifty, a sort of superannuated Aileen, but still showing
                        traces of a former hardy beauty, and concealing pretty well the evidences that she had once been
                        a prostitute. It so happened that on this particular evening McKenty was in a most genial frame
                        of mind. There were no immediate political troubles bothering him just now. It was early in May.
                        Outside the trees were budding, the sparrows and robins were voicing their several moods. A
                        delicious haze was in the air, and some early mosquitoes were reconnoitering the screens which
                        protected the windows and doors. Cowperwood, in spite of his various troubles, was in a
                        complacent state of mind himself. He liked lifeeven its very difficult complicationsperhaps its
                        complications best of all. Nature was beautiful, tender at times, but difficulties, plans,
                        plots, schemes to unravel and make smooththese things were what made existence worth while.
                    "Well now, Mr. Cowperwood," McKenty began, when  they finally entered the cool, pleasant library,
                        "what can I do for you?"
                    "Well, Mr. McKenty," said Cowperwood, choosing his words and
                        bringing the finest resources of his temperament into play, "it isn't so much,
                        and yet it is. I want a franchise from the Chicago city council, and I want you to help me get
                        it if you will. I know you may say to me why not go to the councilmen direct. I would do that,
                        except that there are certain other elementsindividualswho might come to you. It won't
                        offend you, I know, when I say that I have always understood that you are a sort of
                        clearing-house for political troubles in Chicago."
                    Mr. McKenty smiled. "That's flattering," he replied,
                        dryly.
                    "Now, I am rather new myself to Chicago," went on Cowperwood,
                        softly. "I have been here only a year or two. I come from Philadelphia. I have been
                        interested as a fiscal agent and an investor in several gas companies that have been organized
                        in Lake View, Hyde park, and elsewhere outside the city limits, as you may possibly have seen by
                        the papers lately. I am not their owner, in the sense that I have provided all or even a good
                        part of the sense that I have provided all or even a good part of the money invested in them. I
                        am not even their manager, except in a very general way. I might better be called their promoter
                        and guardian; but I am that for other people and myself."
                    Mr. McKenty nodded.
                    "Now, Mr. McKenty, it was not very long after I started out to get
                        franchises to do business in Lake View and Hyde Park before I found myself confronted by the
                        interests which control the three old city gas companies. They were very much opposed to our
                        entering the field in Cook County anywhere, as you may imagine, although we were not really
                        crowding in on their field. Since then they have fought me with lawsuits, injunctions, and
                        charges of bribery and conspiracy."
                    "I know," put in Mr. McKenty. "I have heard something of
                        it."
                    "Quite so," replied Cowperwood. "Because of their
                        opposition I made them an offer to combine these three companies and the three new ones into
                        one, take out a new  charter, and give the city a
                        uniform gas service. They would not do thatlargely because I was an outsider, I think. Since
                        then another person, Mr. Schryhart"McKenty nodded"who has never had anything
                        to do with the gas business here, has stepped in and offered to combine them. His plan is to do
                        exactly what I wanted to do; only his further proposition is, once he has the three old
                        companies united, to invade this new gas field of ours and hold us up, or force us to sell by
                        obtaining rival franchises in these outlying places. There is talk of combining these suburbs
                        with Chicago, as you know, which would allow these three down-town franchises to become mutually
                        operative with our own. This makes it essential for us to do one of several things, as you may
                        seeeither to sell out on the best terms we can now, or to continue the fight at a rather heavy
                        expense without making any attempt to strike back, or to get into the city council and ask for a
                        franchise to do business in the down-town sectiona general blanket franchise to sell gas in
                        Chicago alongside of the old companieswith the sole intention of protecting ourselves, as one of
                        my officers is fond of saying," added Cowperwood, humorously.
                    McKenty smiled again. "I see," he said. "Isn't
                        that a rather large order, though, Mr. Cowperwood, seeking a new franchise? Do you suppose the
                        general public would agree that the city needs an extra gas company? It's true the old
                        companies haven't been any too generous. My own gas isn't of the
                        best." He smiled vaguely, prepared to listen further.
                    "Now, Mr. McKenty, I know that you are a practical man, went," on
                        Cowperwood, ignoring this interruption, "and so am I. I am not coming to you with any
                        vague story concerning my troubles and expecting you to be interested as a matter of sympathy. I
                        realize that to go into the city council of Chicago with a legitimate proposition is one thing.
                        To get it passed and approved by the city authorities is another. I need advice and assistance,
                        and I am not begging it. If I could get a general franchise, such as I have described, it would
                        be worth a very great deal of money to me. It would help me to close up and realize on these new
                        companies which are entirely sound  and needed. It
                        would help me to prevent the old companies from eating me up. As a matter of fact, I must have
                        such a franchise to protect my interests and give me a running fighting chance. Now, I know that
                        none of us are in politics or finance for our health. If I could get such a franchise it would
                        be worth from one-fourth to one-half of all I personally would make out of it, providing my plan
                        of combining these new companies with the old ones should go throughsay, from three to four
                        hundred thousand dollars." (Here again Cowperwood was not quite frank, but safe.)
                        "It is needless to say to you that I can command ample capital. This franchise would do
                        that. Briefly, I want to know if you won't give me your political support in this
                        matter and join in with me on the basis that I propose? I will make it perfectly clear to you
                        beforehand who my associates are. I will put all the data and details on the table before you so
                        that you can see for yourself how things are. If you should find at any time that I have
                        misrepresented anything you are at full liberty, of course, to withdraw. As I said
                        before," he concluded, "I am not a beggar. I am not coming here to conceal any
                        facts or to hide anything which might deceive you as to the worth of all this to us. I want you
                        to know the facts. I want you to give me your aid on such terms as you think are fair and
                        equitable. Really the only trouble with me in this situation is that I am not a silk stocking.
                        If I were this gas war would have been adjusted long ago. These gentlemen who are so willing to
                        reorganize through Mr Schryhart are largely opposed to me because I am comparativelya stranger
                        in Chicago and not in their set. If I were"he moved his hand slightly"I
                        don't suppose I would be here this evening asking for your favor, although that does
                        not say that I am not glad to be here, or that I would not be glad to work with you in any way
                        that I might. Circumstances simply have not thrown me across your path before."
                    As he talked his eye fixed McKenty steadily, almost innocently; and the latter,
                        following him clearly, felt all the while that he was listening to a strange, able, dark, and
                        very forceful man. There was no beating about the bush here, no squeamishness of spirit, and yet
                        there was subtlety  the kind McKenty liked. While he
                        was amused by Cowperwood's casual reference to the silk stockings who were keeping him
                        out, it appealed to him. He caught the point of view as well as the intention of it. Cowperwood
                        represented a new and rather pleasing type of financier to him. Evidently, he was traveling in
                        able company if one could believe the men who had introduced him so warmly. McKenty, as
                        Cowperwood was well aware, had personally no interest in the old companies and alsothough this
                        he did not sayno particular sympathy with them. They were just remote financial corporations to
                        him, paying political tribute on demand, expecting political favors in return. Every few weeks
                        now they were in council, asking for one gas-main franchise after another (special privileges in
                        certain streets), asking for better (more profitable) light-contracts, asking for dock
                        privileges in the river, a lower tax rate, and so forth and so on. McKenty did not pay much
                        attention to these things personally. He had a subordinate in council, a very powerful henchman
                        by the name of Patrick Dowling, a meaty, vigorous Irishman and a true watch-dog of graft for the
                        machine, who worked with the mayor, the city treasurer, the city tax receiverin fact, all the
                        officers of the current administrationand saw that such minor matters were properly equalized.
                        Mr. McKenty had only met two or three of the officers of the South Side Gas Company, and that
                        quite casually. He did not like them very well. The truth was that the old companies were
                        officered by men who considered politicians of the McKenty and Dowling stripe as very evil men;
                        if they paid them and did other such wicked things it was because they were forced to do so.
                    "Well," McKenty replied, fingering his thin gold watch-chain in a
                        thoughtful manner, "that's an interesting scheme you have. Of course the old
                        companies wouldn't like your asking for a rival franchise, but once you had it they
                        couldn't object very well, could they?" He smiled. Mr. McKenty spoke with no
                        suggestion of a brogue. "From one point of view it might be looked upon as bad
                        business, but not entirely. They would be sure to make a great cry, though they haven't
                        been any too kind to the public themselves. But if you offered to combine with them I  see no objection. It's certain to be as good
                        for them in the long run as it is for you. This merely permits you to make a better
                        bargain."
                    "Exactly," said Cowperwood.
                    And you have the means, you tell me, to lay mains in every part of the city, and
                        fight with them for business if they won't give in?"
                    "I have the means," said Cowperwood, or if I haven't I can
                        get them."
                    Mr. McKenty looked at Mr. Cowperwood very solemnly. There was a kind of mutual
                        sympathy, understanding, and admiration between the two men, but it was still heavily veiled by
                        self-interest. To Mr. McKenty Cowperwood was interesting because he was one of the few business
                        men he had met who were not ponderous, pharasaical, even hypocritical when they were dealing
                        with him.
                    "Well, I'll tell you what I'll do, Mr.
                        Cowperwood." he said, finally. "I'll take it all under consideration.
                        Let me think it over until Monday, anyhow. There is more of an excuse now for the introduction
                        of a general gas ordinance than there would be a little laterI can see that. Why you draw up
                        your proposed franchise and let me see it? Then we might find out what some of the other
                        gentlemen of the city council think."
                    Cowperwood almost smiled at the word "gentlemen."
                    "I have already done that," he said. "Here it
                        is." McKenty took it, surprised and yet pleased at this evidence of business
                        proficiency. He liked a strong manipulator of this kindthe more since he was not one himself,
                        and most of those that he did know were thin-blooded and squeamish.
                    "Let me take this," he said. "I'll see you next
                        Monday again if you wish. Come Monday."
                    Cowperwood got up. "I thought I'd come and talk to you direct, Mr.
                        McKenty," he said, "and now I'm glad that I did. You will find, if
                        you will take the trouble to look into this matter, that it is just as I represent it. There is
                        a very great deal of money here in one way and another, though it will take some little time to
                        work it out."
                    Mr. McKenty saw the point. "Yes," he said, sweetly, "to be
                        sure."
                    
                    They looked into each other's eyes as they shook hands.
                    "I'm not sure but you haven't hit upon a very good idea
                        here," concluded McKenty, sympathetically. "A very good idea, indeed. Come and
                        see me again next Monday, or about that time, and I'll let you know what I think. Come
                        any time you have anything else you want of me. I'll always be glad to see you.
                        It's a fine night, isn't it!" he added, looking out as they neared
                        the door. "A nice moon that!" he added. A sickle moon was in the sky.
                        "Good night."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE DIE IS CAST
                    THE significance of this visit was not long in manifesting itself. At the top, in
                        large affairs, life goes off into almost inexplicable tangles of personalities. Mr. McKenty, now
                        that the matter had been called to his attention, was interested to learn about this gas
                        situation from all sideswhether it might not be more profitable to deal with the Schryhart end
                        of the argument, and so on. But his eventual conclusion was that Cowperwood's plan, as
                        he had outlined it, was the most feasible for political purposes, largely because the Schryhart
                        faction, not being in a position where they needed to ask the city council for anything at
                        present, were so obtuse as to forget to make overtures of any kind to the bucaneering forces at
                        the City Hall.
                    When Cowperwood next came to McKenty's house the latter was in a receptive
                        frame of mind. "Well," he said, after a few genial preliminary remarks,
                        "I've been learning what's going on. Your proposition is fair enough.
                        Organize your company, and arrange your plan conditionally. Then introduce your ordinance, and
                        we'll see what can be done." They went into a long, intimate discussion as to
                        how the forthcoming stock should be divided, how it was to be held in escrow by a favorite bank
                        of Mr. McKenty's until the terms of the agreement under the eventual affiliation with
                        the old companies or the new union company should be fulfilled, and details of that sort. It was
                        rather a complicated arrangement, not as satisfactory to Cowperwood as it might have been, but
                        satisfactory in that it permitted him to win. It required the undivided services of General Van
                        Sickle, Henry De Soto Sippens, Kent Barrows  McKibben,
                        and Alderman Dowling for some little time. But finally all was in readiness for the coup.
                    On a certain Monday night, therefore, following the Thursday on which, according to
                        the rules of the city council, an ordinance of this character would have to be introduced, the
                        plan, after being publicly broached but this very little while, was quickly considered by the
                        city council and passed. There had been really no time for public discussion. This was just the
                        thing, of course, that Cowperwood and McKenty were trying to avoid. On the day following the
                        particular Thursday on which the ordinance for passage, Schryhart, through his lawyers and the
                        officers of the old individual gas companies, had run to the newspapers and denounced the whole
                        thing as plain robbery; but what were they to do? There was so little time for agitation. True
                        the newspapers, obedient to this larger financial influence, began to talk of "fair
                        play to the old companies, and the uselessness of two large rival companies in the field when
                        one would serve as well. Still the public, instructed or urged by the McKenty agents to the
                        contrary, were not prepared to believe it. They had not been so well treated by the old
                        companies as to make any outcry on their behalf.
                    Standing outside the city council door, on the Monday evening when the bill was
                        finally passed, Mr. Samuel Blackman, president of the South Side Gas Company, a little, wispy
                        man with shoe-brush whiskers, declared emphatically:
                    "This is a scoundrelly piece of business. If the mayor signs that he should
                        be impeached. There is not a vote in there to-night that has not been purchasednot one. This is
                        a fine element of brigandage to introduce into Chicago; why, people who have worked years and
                        years to build up a business are not safe!"
                    "It's true, every word of it," complained Mr. Jordan
                        Jules, president of the North Side company, a short, stout man with a head like an egg lying
                        lengthwise, a mere fringe of hair, and hard, blue eyes. He was with MR Hudson Baker, tall and
                        ambling, who was president of the West Chicago company. All of these had come to protest,  "It's that scoundrel from
                        Philadelphia. He's the cause of all our troubles. It's high time the
                        respectable business element of Chicago realized just what sort of a man they have to deal with
                        in him. He ought to be driven out of here. Look at his Philadelphia record. They sent him to the
                        penitentiary down there, and they ought to do it here."
                    Mr. Baker, very recently the guest of Schryhart, and his henchman, too, was also
                        properly chagrined. "The man is a charlatan," he protested to Blackman.
                        "He doesn't play fair. It is plain that he doesn't belong in
                        respectable society."
                    Nevertheless, and in spite of this, the ordinance was passed. It was a bitter lesson
                        for Mr. Norman Schryhart, Mr. Norrie Simms, and all those who had unfortunately become involved.
                        A committee composed of all three of the old companies visited the mayor; but the latter, a tool
                        of McKenty, giving his future into the hands of the enemy, signed it just the same. Cowperwood
                        had his franchise, language of a later day, "to step up and see the captain."
                        Only Schryhart felt personally that his score with Cowperwood was not settled. He would meet him
                        on some other ground later. The next time he would try to fight fire with fire. But for the
                        present, shrewd man that he was, he was prepared to compromise. Thereafter, dissembling his
                        chagrin as best he could, he kept on the lookout for Cowperwood at both of the clubs of which he
                        was a member; but Cowper wood had avoided them during this period of excitement, and Mahomet
                        would Mr. Schryhart called at Cowper wood's office. He had on a bright, new, steel-gray
                        suit and a straw hat. From his pocket, according to the fashion of the time, protruded a neat,
                        blue-bordered silk handkerchief, and his feet were immaculate in new, shining Oxford ties.
                    "I'm sailing for Europe in a few days, Mr. Cowper wood,"
                        he remarked, genially, " and I thought I'd drop round to see if you and I
                        could reach some agreement in regard to this gas situation. The officers of the old companies
                        naturally feel that they do not care to have a rival in the field, and  I'm sure that you are not interested in carrying on a useless
                        rate war that won't leave anybody any profit. I recall that you were willing to
                        compromise on a half-and-half basis with me before, and I was wondering whether you were still
                        of that mind."
                    "Sit down, sit down, Mr. Schryhart," remarked Cowperwood,
                        cheerfully, waving the new-comer to a chair. "I'm pleased to see you again.
                        No, I'm no more anxious for a rate war than you are. As a matter of fact, I hope to
                        avoid it; but, as you see, things have changed somewhat since I saw you. The gentlemen who have
                        organized and invested their money in this new city gas company are perfectly willingrather
                        anxious, in factto go on and establish a legitimate business. They feel all the confidence in
                        the world that they can do this, and I agree with them. A compromise might be effected between
                        the old and the new companies, but not on the basis on which I was willing to settle some time
                        ago. A new company has been organized since then, stock issued, and a great deal of money
                        expended." (This was not true.) "That stock will have to figure in any new
                        agreement. I think a general union of all the companies is desirable, but it will have to be on
                        a basis of one, two, three, or four shareswhatever is decidedat par for all stock
                        involved."
                    Mr. Schryhart pulled a long face. "Don't you think that's
                        rather steep?" he said, solemnly.
                    "Not at all, not at all!" replied Cowper wood. "You know
                        these new expenditures were not undertaken voluntarily." (The irony of this did not
                        escape Mr. Schryhart, but he said nothing.)
                    "I admit all that, but don't you think, since your shares are worth
                        practically nothing at present, that you ought to be satisfied if they were accented at
                        par?"
                    "I can't see why," replied Cowper wood. "Our
                        future prospects are splendid. There must be an even adjustment here or nothing. What I want to
                        know is how much treasury stock you would expect to have in the safe for the promotion of this
                        new organization after all the old stock-holders have been satisfied?"
                    "Well, as I thought before, from thirty to forty per cent. of the total
                        issue," replied Schryhart, still hopeful of a  profitable adjustment. "I should think it could be worked on that basis."
                    "And who gets that?"
                    "Why, the organizer," said Schryhart, evasively.
                        "Yourself, perhaps, and myself."
                    "And how would you divide it? Half and half, as before?"
                    "I should think that would be fair."
                    "It isn't enough," returned Cowperwood, incisively.
                        "Since I talked to you last I have been compelled to shoulder obligations and make
                        agreements which I did not anticipate then. The best I can do now is to accept
                        three-fourths."
                    Schryhart straightened up determinedly and offensively. This was outrageous, he
                        thought, impossible! The effrontery of it!
                    "It can never be done, Mr. Cowperwood," he replied, forcefully.
                        "You are trying to unload too much worthless stock on the company as it is. The old
                        companies' stock is selling right now, as you know, for from one-fifty to two-ten. Your
                        stock is worth nothing. If you are to be given two or three for one for that, and three-fourths
                        of the reminder in the treasury, I for one want nothing to do with the deal. You would be in
                        control of the company, and it will be water-logged, at that. Talk about getting something for
                        nothing! The best I would suggest to the stockholders of the old companies would be half and
                        half. And I may say to you frankly, although you may not believe it, that the old companies will
                        not join in with you in any scheme that gives you control. They are too much incensed. Feeling
                        is running too high. It will mean a long, expensive fight, and they will never compromise. Now,
                        if you have anything really reasonable to offer I would be glad to hear it. Otherwise I am
                        afraid these negotiations are not going to come to anything."
                    "Share and share alike, and three-fourths of the remainder,"
                        repeated Cowperwood, grimly. "I do not want to control. If they want to raise the money
                        and buy me out on that basis I am willing to sell. I want a decent return for investments I have
                        made, and I am going to have it. I cannot speak for the others behind me, but as  long as they deal through me that is what they will
                        expect."
                    Mr. Schryhart went angrily away. He was exceedingly wroth. This proposition as
                        Cowperwood now outlined it was bucaneering at its best. He proposed for himself to withdraw from
                        the old companies if necessary, to close out his holdings and let the old companies deal with
                        Cowperwood as best they could. So long as he had anything to do with it, Cowperwood should never
                        gain control of the gas situation. Better to take him at his suggestion, raise the money and buy
                        him out, even at an exorbitant figure. Then the old gas companies could go along and do business
                        in their old-fashioned way without being disturbed. This bucaneer! This upstart! What a shrewd,
                        quick, forceful move he had made! It irritated Mr. Schryhart greatly.
                    The end of all this was a compromise in which Cowperwood accepted one-half of the
                        surplus stock of the new general issue, and two for one of every share of stock for which his
                        new companies had been organized, at the same time selling out to the old companiesclearing out
                        completely. It was a most profitable deal, and he was enabled to provide handsomely not only for
                        Mr. McKenty and Addison, but for all the others connected with him. It was a splendid coup, as
                        McKenty and Addison assured him Having now done so much he began to turn his eyes elsewhere for
                        other fields to conquer.
                    But this victory in one direction brought with it corresponding reverses in anther:
                        the social future of Cowperwood and Aileen was now in great jeopardy, Schryhart, who was a force
                        socially, having met with defeat at the hands of Cowperwood, was now bitterly opposed to him.
                        Norrie Simms naturally sided with his old associates. But the worst blow came through Mrs. Anson
                        Merrill. Shortly after the housewarning, and when the gas argument and the conspiracy charges
                        were rising to their heights, she had been to New York and had there chanced to encounter an old
                        acquaintance of hers, Mrs. Martyn Walker, of Philadelphia, one of the circle which Cowperwood
                        once upon a time had been vainly ambitious to enter. Mrs. Merrill, aware of the interest the
                        Cowperwoods  had aroused in Mrs. Simms and others,
                        welcomed the opportunity to find out something definite.
                    "By the way, did you ever chance to hear of a Frank Algernon Cowper wood or
                        his wife in Philadelphia?" she inquired of Mrs. Walker.
                    "Why, my dear Nellie," replied her friend, nonplussed that a woman
                        so smart as Mrs. Merrill should even refer to them, "have those people established
                        themselves in Chicago? His career in Philadelphia was, to say the least, spectacular. He was
                        connected with a city treasurer there who stole five hundred thousand dollars, and they both
                        went to the penitentiary. That wasn't the worst of it! He became intimate with some
                        young girla Miss Butler, the sister of Owen Butler, by the way, who is now such a power down
                        there, and" She merely lifted her eyes. "While he was in the penitentiary her
                        father died and the family broke up. I even heard it rumored that the old gentleman killed
                        himself." (She was referring to Aileen's father, Edward Malia Butler.)
                        "When he came out of the penitentiary Cowper wood disappeared, and I did hear some one
                        say that he had gone West, and divorced his wife and married again. His first wife is still
                        living in Philadelphia somewhere with his two children."
                    Mrs. Merrill was properly astonished, but she did not show it. "Quite an
                        interesting story, isn't it?" she commented, distantly, thinking how easy it
                        would be to adjust the Cowper wood situation, and how pleased she was that she had never shown
                        any interest in them. "Did you ever see herhis new wife?"
                    "I think so, but I forget where. I believe she used to ride and drive a
                        great deal in Philadelphia."
                    "Did she have red hair?"
                    "Oh yes. She was a very striking blonde."
                    "I fancy it must be the same person. They have been in the papers recently
                        in Chicago. I wanted to be sure."
                    Mrs. Merrill was meditating some fine comments to be made in the future.
                    "I suppose now they're trying to get into Chicago
                        society?" Mrs. Walker smiled condescendingly and contemptuouslyas much at Chicago
                        society as at the Cowper woods.
                    
                    "It's possible that they might attempt something like that in the
                        East and succeedI'm sure I don't know," replied Mrs. Merrill,
                        caustically, resenting the slur, "but attempting and achieving are quite different
                        things in Chicago."
                    The answer was sufficient. It ended the discussion. When next Mrs. Simms was rash
                        enough to mention the Cowper woods, or, rather, the peculiar publicity in connection with him,
                        her future viewpoint was definitely fixed for her.
                    "If you take my advice," commented Mrs. Merrill, finally,
                        "the less you have to do with these friends of yours the better. I know all about them.
                        You might have seen that from the first. They can never be accepted."
                    Mrs. Merrill did not trouble to explain why, but Mrs. Simms through her husband soon
                        learned the whole truth, and she was righteously indignant and even terrified. Who was to blame
                        for this sort of thing, anyhow? she thought. Who had introduced them? The Addisons, of course.
                        But the Addisons were socially unassailable, if not all-powerful, and so the best had to be made
                        of that. But the Cowper woods could be dropped from the lists of herself and her friends
                        instantly, and that was now done. A sudden slump in their social significance began to manifest
                        itself, though not so swiftly but what for the time being it was slightly deceptive.
                    The first evidence of change which Aileen observed was when the customary cards and
                        invitations for receptions and the like, which had come to them quite freely of late, began to
                        decline sharply in number, and when the guests to her own Wednesday afternoons, which rather
                        prematurely she had ventured to establish, became a mere negligible handful. At first she could
                        not understand this, not being willing to believe that, following so soon upon her apparent
                        triumph as a hostess in her own home, there could be so marked a decline in her local
                        importance. Of a possible seventy-five or fifty who might have called or left cards, within
                        three weeks after the housewarming only twenty responded. A week later it had declined to ten,
                        and within five weeks, all told, there was scarcely a caller. It is true that a very few of the
                        unimportan  those who had looked to her for influence
                        and the self-protecting Taylor Lord and Kent McKibben, who were commercially obligated to
                        Cowperwoodwere still faithful, but they were really worse than nothing. Aileen was beside
                        herself with disappointment, opposition, chagrin, shame. I here are many natures,
                        rhinoceros-hided and iron-souled, who can endure almost any rebuff in the hope of eventual
                        victory, who are almost too thick-skinned to suffer, but hers was not one of these. Already, in
                        spite of her original daring in regard to the opinion of society and the rights of the former
                        Mrs. Cowperwood, she was sensitive on the score of her future and what her past might mean to
                        her. Really her original actions could be attributed to her youthful passion and the powerful
                        sex magnetism of Cowperwood. Under more fortunate circumstances she would have married safely
                        enough and without the scandal which followed. As it was now, her social future here needed to
                        end satisfactorily in order to justify herself to herself, and, she thought, to him.
                    "You may put the sandwiches in the ice-box," she said to Louis, the
                        butler, after one of the earliest of the "at home" failures, referring to the
                        undue supply of pink-and-blue-ribboned titbits which uneaten honored some fine Sevres with their
                        presence. "Send the flowers to the hospital. The servants may drink the claret cup and
                        lemonade. Keep some of the cakes fresh for dinner."
                    The butler nodded his head. "Yes, Madame," he said. Then, by way of
                        pouring oil on what appeared to him to be a troubled situation, he added:
                        "Eet's a rough day. I suppose zat has somepsing to do weeth it."
                    Aileen was aflame in a moment. She was about to exclaim: "Mind your
                        business!" But changed her mind.
                    "Yes, I presume so," was her answer, as she ascended to her room.
                        If a single poor "at home" was to be commented on by servants, things were
                        coming to a pretty pass. She waited until the next week to see whether this was the weather or a
                        real change in public sentiment. It was worse than the one before. The singers she had engaged
                        had to be dismissed without performing the service for which they had come. Kent McKibben and
                        Taylor Lord, very well aware of the rumors now flying about, called, but in a remote  and troubled spirit. Aileen saw that, too. An affair
                        of this kind, with only these two and Mrs. Webster Israels and Mrs. Henry Huddlestone calling,
                        was a sad indication of something wrong. She had to plead illness and excuse herself. The third
                        week, fearing a worse defeat than before, Aileen pretended to be ill. She would see how many
                        cards were left. There were just three. That was the end. She realized that her "at
                        homes" were a notable failure.
                    At the same time Cowperwood was not to be spared his share in the distrust and social
                        opposition which was now rampant.
                    His first inkling of the true state of affairs came in connection with a dinner
                        which, on the strength of an old invitation, they unfortunately attended at a time when Aileen
                        was still uncertain. It had been originally arranged by the Sunderland Sledds, who were not so
                        much socially, and who at the time it occurred were as yet unaware of the ugly gossip going
                        about, or at least of society's new attitude toward the Cowperwoods. At this time it
                        was understood by nearly allthe Simms, Candas, Cottons, and Kings-landsthat a great mistake had
                        been made, and that the Cowperwoods were by no means admissible.
                    To this particular dinner a number of people, whom the latter knew, had been invited.
                        Uniformly all, when they learned or recalled that the Cowperwoods were expected, sent
                        eleventh-hour regrets" so sorry." Outside the Sledds there was only one other
                        couple the Stanislau Hoecksemas, for whom the Cowperwoods did not particularly care. It was a
                        dull evening. Aileen complained of a headache, and they went home.
                    Very shortly afterward, at a reception given by their neighbors, the Haatstaedts, to
                        which they had long since been invited, there was an evident shyness in regard to them, quite
                        new in its aspect, although the hosts themselves were still friendly enough. Previous to this,
                        when strangers of prominence had been present at an affair of this kind they were glad to be
                        brought over to the Cowperwoods, who were always conspicuous because of Aileen's
                        beauty. On this day, for no reason obvious to Aileen or Cowperwood (although both suspected),
                        introductions were almost uniformly  refused. There
                        were a number who knew them, and who talked casually, but the general tendency on the
                        'part of all was to steer clear of them. Cowper wood sensed the difficulty at once.
                        "I think we'd better leave early," he remarked to Aileen, after a
                        little while. "This isn't very interesting."
                    They returned to their own home, and Cowper wood to avoid discussion went down-town.
                        He did not care to say what he thought of this as yet.
                    It was previous to a reception given by the Union League that the first real blow was
                        struck at him personally, and that in a roundabout way. Addison, talking to him at the Lake
                        National Hank one morning, had said quite confidentially, and out of a clear sky:
                    "I want to tell you something, Cowper wood. You know by now something about
                        Chicago society. You also know where I stand in regard to some things you told me about your
                        past when I first met you. Well, there's a lot of talk going around about you now in
                        regard to all that, and these two clubs to which you and I belong are filled with a lot of
                        two-faced, double-breasted hypocrites who've been stirred v up by this talk of
                        conspiracy in the papers. There are four or five stockholders of the old companies who are
                        members, and they are trying to drive you out. They've looked up that story you told
                        me, and they're talking about filing charges with the house committees at both places.
                        Now, nothing can come of it in either casethey've been talking to me; but when this
                        next reception comes along you'll know what to do. They'll have to extend you
                        an invitation; but they won't mean it."(Cowper wood understood.)
                        "This whole thing is certain to blow over, in my judgment; it will if I have anything
                        to do with it; but for the present"
                    He stared at Cowper wood in a friendly way.
                    The latter smiled. "I expected something like this, Judah, to tell you the
                        truth," he said, easily. "I've expected it all along. You
                        needn't worry about me. I know all about this. I've seen which way the wind is
                        blowing, and I know how to trim my sails."
                    Addison reached out and took his hand. "But don't resign, whatever
                        you do," he said, cautiously. "That would be a confession of weakness, and
                        they don't expect  you to. I
                        wouldn't want you to. Stand your ground. This whole thing will blow over.
                        They're jealous, I think."
                    "I never intended to," replied Cowper wood.
                        "There's no legitimate charge against me. I know it will all blow over if
                        I'm given time enough." Nevertheless he was chagrined to think that he should
                        be subjected to such a conversation as this with any one.
                    Similarly in other ways "society" so calledwas quite able to
                        enforce its mandates and conclusions.
                    The one thing that Cowper wood most resented, when he learned of it much later, was a
                        snub direct given to Aileen at the door of the Norrie Simms'; she called there only to
                        be told that Mrs. Simms was not at home, although the carriages of others were in the street. A
                        few days afterward Aileen, much to his regret and astonishment for he did not then know the
                        causeactually became ill.
                    If it had not been for Cowper wood's eventual financial triumph over all
                        oppositionthe complete routing of the enemyin the struggle for control in the gas situationthe
                        situation would have been hard, indeed. As it was, Aileen suffered bitterly; she felt that the
                        slight was principally directed at her, and would remain in force. In the privacy of their own
                        home they were compelled eventually to admit, the one to the other, that their house of cards,
                        resplendent and forceful looking as it was, had fallen to the ground. Personal confidences
                        between people so closely united are really the most trying of all. Human souls are constantly
                        trying to find each other, and rarely succeeding.
                    You know, he finally said to her once, when he came in rather unexpectedly and found
                        her sick in bed, her eyes wet, and her maid dismissed for the day, "I understand what
                        this is all about. To tell you the truth, Aileen, I rather expected it. We have been going too
                        fast, you and I. We have been pushing this matter too hard. Now, I don't like to see
                        you taking it this way, dear. This battle isn't lost. Why, I thought you had more
                        courage than this. Let me tell you something which you don't seem to remember. Money
                        will solve all this sometime. I'm winning in this fight right now, and I'll
                        win in others. They are coming to me. Why, dearie, you oughtn't to despair.  You're too young. I never do.
                        You'll win yet. We can adjust this matter right here in Chicago, and when we do we will
                        pay up a lot of scores at the same time. We're rich, and we're going to be
                        richer. That will settle it. Now put on a good face and look pleased; there are plenty of things
                        to live for in this world besides society. Get up now and dress, and we'll go for a
                        drive and dinner down-town. You have me yet. Isn't that something?"
                    "Oh yes," sighed Aileen, heavily; but she sank back again. She put
                        her arms about his neck and cried, as much out of joy over the consolation he offered as over
                        the loss she had endured. "It was as much for you as for me," she sighed.
                    "I know that," he soothed; "but don't worry about
                        it now. You will come out all right. We both will. Come, get up." Nevertheless, he was
                        sorry to see her yield so I weakly. It did not please him. He resolved some day to have a grim
                        adjustment with society on this score. Meanwhile Aileen was recovering her spirits. She was
                        ashamed of her weakness when she saw how forcefully he faced it all.
                    "Oh, Frank," she exclaimed, finally, "you're
                        always so wonderful. You're such a darling."
                    "Never mind," he said, cheerfully. "If we don't
                        win this game here in Chicago, we will somewhere."
                    He was thinking of the brilliant manner in which he had adjusted his affairs with the
                        old gas companies and Mr. Schryhart, and how thoroughly he would handle some other matters when
                        the time came.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    UNDERCURRENTS
                    IT was during the year that followed their social repudiation, and the next and the
                        next, that Cowper wood achieved a keen realization of what it would mean to spend the rest of
                        his days in social isolation, or at least confined in his sources of entertainment to a circle
                        or element which constantly reminded him of the fact that he was not identified with the best,
                        or, at least, not the most significant, however dull that might be. When he had first attempted
                        to introduce Aileen into society it was his idea that, however tame they might chance to find it
                        to begin with, they themselves, once admitted, could make it into something very interesting and
                        even brilliant. Since the time the Cowper woods had been repudiated, however, they had found it
                        necessary, if they if they wished any social diversion at all, to fall back upon such various
                        minor elements as they could scrape an acquaintance with passing actors and actresses, to whom
                        occasionally they could give a dinner; artists and singers whom they could invite to the house
                        upon gaining an introduction; and, of course, a number of the socially un-important, such as the
                        Haatstaedts, Hoecksemas, Videras, Baileys, and others still friendly and willing to come in a
                        casual way. Cowper wood found, to time to invite a business friend, a. lover of pictures, or
                        some young artist to the house to dinner or for the evening, and on these occasions Aileen was
                        always present. The Addisons called or invited them occasionally. But it was a dull game, the
                        more so since their complete defeat was thus all the more plainly indicated.
                    This defeat, as Cowper wood kept reflecting, was really, not his fault at all. He had
                        been getting along well enough j personally. If Aileen had only been a somewhat different  type of woman! Nevertheless, he was in no way
                        prepared/ to desert or reproach her. She had clung to him through his stormy prison days. She
                        had encouraged him when he needed encouragement. He would stand by her and see what could be
                        done a little later; but this ostracism was a rather dreary thing to endure. Besides,
                        personally, he Appeared to be becoming more and more interesting to men and to women, The men
                        friends he had made he retained Addison, Bailey, Videra, McKibben, Rambaud, and others. There
                        were women in society, a number of them, who regretted his disappearance if not that of Aileen.
                        Occasionally the experiment would be tried of inviting him without his wife. At first he refused
                        invariably; later he went alone occasionally to a dinner-party without her knowledge.
                    It was during this interregnum that Cowper wood for the first time clearly began to
                        get the idea that there was a marked difference between him and Aileen intellectually and
                        spiritually; and that while he might be in accord with her in many waysemotionally, physically,
                        idyllicly there were, nevertheless, many things which he could do alone which she could not
                        doheights to which he could rise where she could not possibly follow. Chicago society might be a
                        negligible quantity, but he was now to contrast her sharply with the best of what the Old World
                        had to offer in the matter of femininity, for following their social expulsion in Chicago and
                        his financial victory, he once more decided to go abroad. In Rome, at the Japanese and Brazilian
                        embassies (where, because of his wealth, he gained introduction), and at the newly established
                        Italian Court, he encountered at a distance charming social figures of considerable
                        significanceItalian countesses, English ladies of high degree, talented American women of strong
                        artistic and social proclivities. As a rule they were quick to recognize the charm of his
                        manner, the in-cisiveness and grip of his mind, and to estimate at all its worth the high
                        individuality of his soul; but he could also always see that Aileen was not so acceptable. She
                        was 'too rich in her entourage, too showy. Her glowing health and beauty was a species
                        of affront to the paler, more sublimated souls of many who were not in themselves unattractive.
                    
                    "Isn't that the typical American for you," he heard a
                        woman remark, at one of those large, very general court receptions to which so many are freely
                        admitted, and to which Aileen had been determined to go. He was standing aside talking to an
                        acquaintance he had madean English-speaking Greek banker stopping at the Grand Hotel while
                        Aileen promenaded with the banker's wife. The speaker was an Englishwoman, "So
                        gaudy, so self-conscious, and so na$iUve!"
                    Cowper wood turned to look. It was Aileen, and the lady speaking was undoubtedly well
                        bred, thoughtful, good-looking. He had to admit that much that she said was true, but how were
                        you to gage a woman like Aileen, anyhow? She was not reprehensible in any wayjust a full-blooded
                        animal glowing with a love of life. She was attractive to him. It was too bad that people of
                        obviously more conservative tendencies were so opposed to her. Why could they not see what he
                        sawa kind of childish enthusiasm for luxury and show which sprang, perhaps, from the fact that
                        in her youth she had not enjoyed the social opportunities which she needed and longed for. He
                        felt sorry for her. At the same time he was inclined to feel that perhaps now another type of
                        woman would be better for him socially. If he had a harder type, one with keener artistic
                        perceptions and a penchant for just the right social touch or note, how much better he would do!
                        He came home bringing a Perugino, brilliant examples of Luini, Previtali, and Pinturrichio (this
                        last a portrait of Caesar Borgia), which he picked up in Italy, to say nothing of two red
                        African vases of great size that he found in Cairo, a tall gilt Louis Fifteenth standard of
                        carved wood that he discovered in Rome, two ornate candelabra from Venice for his walls, and a
                        pair of Italian torcheras from Naples to decorate the corners of his library. It was thus by
                        degrees that his art collection was growing.
                    At the same time it should be said, in the matter of women and the sex question, his
                        judgment and views had begun to change tremendously. When he had first met Aileen he had many
                        keen intuitions regarding life and sex, and above all clear faith that he had a right to do as
                        he pleased. Since he had been out of prison and once more  on his upward way there had been many a stray glance cast in his direction;
                        he had so often had it clearly forced upon him that he was fascinating to women. Although he had
                        only so recently acquired Aileen legally, yet she was years old to as a mistress, and the first
                        engrossingit had been almost all-engrossingenthusiasm was over. He loved her not only for her
                        faithful enthusiasm; but the power of others to provoke in him a momentary interest, and passion
                        even, was something which he did not pretend to understand, explain, or moralize about. So it was ye was He did not want to
                        hurt Aileen's feelings by letting her know that his impulses thus wantonly strayed to
                        others, but so it was.
                    Not long after he had returned from the European trip he stopped one afternoon in the
                        one exclusive dry-goods store in State Street to purchase a tie. As he was entering a woman
                        crossed aisle before him, from one counter to anothera type of woman which he was coming to
                        admire, but only from a rather distant point of view, seeing them going here and there in the
                        world She was a dashing type, essentially smart and trig, with a neat figure, dark hair and
                        eyes, an olive skin, small mouth, quaint noseall in all quite a figure for Chicago at the time.
                        She had, furthermore, a curious look of current wisdom in her eyes, on air of saucy insolence
                        which aroused Cowperwood's sense of mastery, his desire to dominate. To the look of
                        provocation and defiance which she flung him for the fraction of a second he returned a
                        curiously leonine glare which went over her like a dash of cold water. It was not a hard look,
                        however, merely urgent and full of meaning. She was the vagrom-minded wife of a prosperous
                        lawyer who was absorbed in his business and in himself. She pretended indifference for a moment
                        after the first glance, but paused a little way off as if to examine some laces. Cowperwood
                        looked after her to catch a second fleeting, attracted look. He was on his way to several
                        engagements which he did not wish to break, but he took out a note-book, wrote on a slip of
                        paper the name of a hotel, and underneath: "Parlor, second floor, Tuesday, I
                        P.M." Passing by where she stood, he put it into her gloved hand, which was hanging by
                        her side. The fingers  closed over it automatically.
                        She had noted his action. On the day and hour suggested she was there, although he had given no
                        name. That liaison, while delightful to him, was of no great duration. The lady was interesting,
                        but too fanciful.
                    Similarly, at the Henry Huddlestones', one of their neighbors at the first
                        Michigan Avenue house they occupied, he twenty-three who interested him greatly for the moment.
                        Her name was not very attractive Ella F. Hubby, as he eventually learnedbut she was not
                        un-pleasing. Her principal charm was a laughing, hoydenish countenance and roguish eyes, one was
                        the daughter ot a well-to-do commission merchant in South Water Street. That her interest should
                        have been aroused by that of Cowperwood in her was natural enough. She was young, foolish,
                        impressionable, easily struck by the glitter of a reputation, and Mrs. Huddlestone had spoken
                        highly of Cowperwood and his wife and the great things he was doing or was going to do. When
                        Ella saw him, and saw that he was still young-looking, with the love of beauty in his eyes and a
                        force of presence which was not at all hard where she was concerned, she was charmed; and when
                        Aileen was not looking her glance kept constantly wandering to his with a laughing signification
                        of friendship and admiration. It was the most natural thing in the world for him to say to her,
                        when they had adjourned to the drawing-room, that if she were in the neighborhood of his office
                        some day she might care to look in on him. The look he gave her was one of keen understanding,
                        and brought a look of its own kind, warm and flushing, in return. She came, and there began a
                        rather short liaison. It was interesting but not brilliant. The girl did not have sufficient
                        temperament to bind him beyond a period of rather idle investigation.
                    There was still, for a little while, another woman, whom he had knowna Mrs. Josephine
                        Ledwell, a smart widow, who came primarily to gamble on the Board of Trade, but who began to see
                        at once, on introduction, the charm of a flirtation with Cowperwood. She was a woman not unlike
                        Aileen in type, a little older, not so good-looking, and of a  harder, more subtle commercial type of mind, one rather interested Cowperwood
                        because she was so trig, self-sufficient, and careful. She did her best to lure him on to a
                        liaison with her, which finally resulted, her apartment on the North Side being the center of
                        this relationship. It lasted perhaps six weeks. Through it all he was quite satisfied that he
                        did not like her so very well. Any one who associated with him had Aileen's present
                        attractiveness to contend with, as well as the original charm of his first wife. It was no easy
                        matter.
                    It was during this period of social dullness, however, which somewhat resembled,
                        though it did not exactly parallel his first years with his first wife, that Cowperwood finally
                        met a woman who was destined to leave a marked impression on his life. He could not soon forget
                        her. Her name was Rita Sohlberg. She was the wife of Harold Sohlberg, a Danish violinist who was
                        then living in Chicago, a very young man; but she was not a Dane, and he was by no means a
                        remarkable violinist, though he had unquestionably the [musical temperament.]2
                    You have perhaps seen the would-be's, the nearly's, the pretenders
                        in every fieldinteresting people alldevoted with a kind of mad enthusiasm to the thing they wish
                        to do. They manifest in some ways all the externals or earmarks of their professional
                        traditions, and yet are as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. You would have had to know
                        Harold Sohlberg only a little while to appreciate that he belonged to this order of artists. He
                        had a wild, stormy, November eye, a wealth of loose, brownish-black hair combed upward from the
                        temples, with one lock straggling Napoleonically down toward the eyes; cheeks that had almost a
                        babyish tint that was fine and large and full, but only faintly aquiline and eyebrows and
                        mustache that somehow seemed to Hare quite like his errant and foolish soul. He had been sent
                        away from Denmark (Copenhagen) because he had been a ne'er-do-well up to twenty-five
                        and because he was constantly falling in love with women who would not have anything to do with
                        him. Here in Chicago as a teacher, with his small pension of forty dollars a month sent him  by his mother, he had gained a few pupils, and by
                        practising hungry by turns, he had managed to make an interesting showing and pull himself
                        through. He was only twenty-eight at the time he met Rita Greenough, of Wichita, Kansas, and at
                        the time they met Cowperwood Harold was thirty-four and she twenty-seven.
                    She had been a student at the Chicago Fine Arts School, and at various student
                        affairs had encountered Harold when he seemed to play divinely, and when life was all romance
                        and art. Given the spring, the sunshine on the lake, white sails of ships, a few walks and talks
                        on pensive afternoons when the city swam in a golden haze, and the thing was done. There was a
                        sudden Saturday afternoon marriage, a runaway day to Milwaukee, a return to the studio now to be
                        fitted out for two, and then kisses, kisses, kisses until love was satisfied or eased.
                    But life cannot exist on that diet alone, and so by degrees the difficulties had
                        begun to manifest themselves. Fortunately, the latter were not allied with sharp financial want.
                        Rita was not poor. Her father conducted a small but profitable grain elevator at Wichita, and,
                        after her this whole idea of art and music in its upper reaches was to him a strange, far-off,
                        uncertain thing. A thin, meticulous, genial person interested in small trade opportunities, and
                        exactly suited to the rather sparse social life of Wichita, he found Harold as curious as a
                        bomb, and preferred to handle him gingerly. Gradually, however, being a very human if simple
                        person, he came to be very proud or itboasted in Wichita of Rita and her artist husband, invited
                        them home to astound the neighbors during the summer-time, and the fall brought his almost
                        farmer-like wife on to see them and to enjoy trips, sight-seeing, studio teas. It was amusing,
                        typically American, na$iUve, almost impossible from many point of view.
                    Rita Sohlberg was of the semi-phlegmatic type, soft, full-blooded, with a body that
                        was going to be fat at forty, but which at present was deliriously alluring. Having soft, silky,
                        light-brown hair, the color of light dust, and moist gray-blue eyes, with a fair skin and even,
                        white  teeth, she was flatteringly self-conscious of
                        her charms. She pretended in a gay, childlike way to be unconscious of the thrill she sent
                        through many susceptible males, and yet she knew well enough all the while what she was doing
                        and how she was doing it; it pleased her so to do. She was conscious of the wonder of her
                        smooth, soft arms and neck, the fullness and seductiveness of her body, the grace and perfection
                        of her clothing, or, at least, the individuality and taste which she made them indicate. She
                        could take an old straw-hat form, a ribbon, a feather, or a rose, and with an innate artistry of
                        feeling turn it into a bit of millinery which somehow was just the effective thing for her. one
                        chose naive combinations or white and blues, pinks and. white, browns and pale yellows, which
                        somehow suggested her own soul, and topped them with great sashes of silky brown (or even red)
                        ribbon tied about her waist, and large, soft-brimmed, face-haloing hats. She was a graceful
                        dancer, could sing a little, could play feelinglysometimes brilliantlyand could draw. Her art
                        was a makeshift, however; she was no artist. The most significant thing about her was her moods
                        and her thoughts, which were uncertain, casual, anarchic. Rita Sohlberg, from the conventional
                        point of view, was a dangerous person, and yet from her own point of view at this time she was
                        not so at alljust dreamy and sweet.
                    A part of the peculiarity of her state was that Sohlberg had begun to disappoint
                        Ritasorely. Truth to tell, he was suffering from that most terrible of all maladies, uncertainty
                        of soul and inability to truly find himself. At times he was not sure whether he was cut out to
                        be a great violinist or a great composer, or merely a great teacher, which last he was never
                        willing really to admit. "I am an arteest," he was fond of saying.
                        "Ho, how I suffer from my temperament!" And again: "These dogs These
                        cows! These pigs!" This of people. The quality of this playing was exceedingly erratic,
                        even though at times it attained to a kind of subtlety, tenderness, awareness, and charm which
                        brought him some attention. As a rule, however, it reflected the chaotic state of his own brain.
                        He would play violently, feverishly, with a wild passionateness of gesture which robbed him of
                        all ability to control his own technic.
                    
                    "Oh, Harold!" Rita used to exclaim at first, ecstatically. Later
                        she was not so sure.
                    Life and character must really get somewhere to be admirable, and Harold, really and
                        truly, did not seem to be getting anywhere. He taught, stormed, dreamed, wept; but he ate his
                        three meals a day, Rita noticed, and he took an excited interest at times in other women. To be
                        the be-all and end-all of some one man's life was the least that Rita could conceive or
                        concede as the worth of her personality, and so, as the years went on and Harold began to be
                        unfaithful) first in moods, transports, then in deeds, her mood became dangerous. She counted
                        them upa girl music pupil, then an art student, then the wife of a banker at whose house Harold
                        played socially. There followed strange, sullen moods on the part of Rita, visits home,
                        groveling repentances on the part of Harold, tears, violent, passionate reunions, and then the
                        same thing over again. What would you?
                    Rita was not jealous of Harold any more; she had lost faith in his ability as a
                        musician. But she was disappointed that her charms were not sufficient to blind him to all
                        others. That was the fly in the ointment. It was an affront to her beauty, and she was still
                        beautiful. She was unctuously full-bodied, not quite so tall as Aileen, not really as large, but
                        rounder and plumper, softer and more seductive. Physically she was not well set up, so vigorous;
                        but her eyes and mouth and the roving character of her mind held a strange lure. Mentally she
                        was much more aware than Aileen, much more precise in her knowledge of art, music, literature,
                        and current events; and in the field of romance she was much more vague and alluring. She knew
                        many things about flowers, precious stones, insects, birds, characters in fiction, and poetic
                        prose and verse generally.
                    At the time the Cowperwoods first met the Sohlbergs the latter still had their studio
                        in the New Arts Building, and all was seemingly as serene as a May morning, only Harold was not
                        getting along very well. He was drifting. The meeting was at a tea given by the Haatstaedts,
                        with whom the Cowperwoods were still friendly, and Harold played. Aileen, who was there alone,
                        seeing a chance to  brighten her own life a little,
                        invited the Sohlbergs, who seemed rather above the average, to her house to a musical evening.
                        They came.
                    On this occasion Cowperwood took one look at Sohlberg and placed him exactly.
                        "An erratic, emotional temperament," he thought. "Probably not able
                        to place himself for want of consistency and application." But he liked him after a
                        fashion. Sohlberg was interesting as an artistic type or figurequite like a character in a
                        Japanese print might be. He greeted him pleasantly.
                    "And Mrs. Sohlberg, I suppose," he remarked, feelingly, catching a
                        quick suggestion of the rhythm and sufficiency and na$iUve taste that went with her. She was in
                        simple white and bluesmall blue ribbons threaded above lacy flounces in the skirt. Her arms and
                        throat were deliciously soft and bare. Her eyes were quick, and yet soft and babyishpetted eyes.
                    "You know," she said to him, with a peculiar rounded formation of
                        the mouth, which was a characteristic of her when she talkeda pretty, pouty mouth, "I
                        thought we would never get heah at all. There was a fire"she pronounced it
                        fy-yah"at Twelfth Street" (the Twelfth was Twelfth in her mouth) "and
                        the engines were all about there. Oh, such sparks and smoke! And the flames redalmost orange and
                        black. They're pretty when they're that waydon't you think
                        so?"
                    Cowperwood was charmed. "Indeed, I do", he said, genially, using a
                        kind of superior and yet sympathetic air which he could easily assume on occasion. He felt as
                        though Mrs. Sohlberg might be a charming daughter to himshe was so cuddling and shyand yet he
                        could see that she was definite and individual. Her arms and face, he told himself. were lovely.
                        Mrs. Sohlberg only saw before her a smart, cold, exact mancapable, very, she presumedwith
                        brilliant, incisive eyes. How different from Harold, she thought, who would never be you be
                        anything muchnot even famous.
                    "I'm so glad you brought your violin," Aileen was saying
                        to Harold, who was in another corner. "I've been looking forward to your
                        coming to play for us."
                    
                    "Very nize ov you, I'm sure," Sohlberg replied, with his
                        sweety drawl. "Such a nize plaze you have hereall these loafly books, and jade, and
                        glass."
                    He had an unctuous, yielding way which was charming, Aileen thought. He should have a
                        strong, rich woman to take care of him. He was like a stormy, erratic boy.
                    After refreshments were served Sohlberg played. Cowperwood was interested by his
                        standing figurehis eyes, his hairbut he was much more interested in Mrs. Sohlberg, to whom his
                        look constantly strayed. He watched her hands on the keys, her fingers, the dimples at her
                        elbows. What an adorable mouth, he thought, and what light, fluffy hair! But, more than that,
                        there was a mood that invested it alla bit of tinted color of the mind that reached him and made
                        him sympathetic and even passionate toward her. She was the kind of woman he would like. She was
                        somewhat like Aileen when she was six years younger (Aileen was now thirty-three, and Mrs.
                        Sohlberg twenty-seven), only Aileen had always been more robust, more vigorous, less nebulous.
                        Mrs. Sohlberg (he finally thought it out for himself) was like the rich tinted interior of a
                        South Sea oyster-shellwarm, colorful, delicate. But there was something firm there, too.
                        No-where in society had he seen any one like her. She was rapt, sensuous, beautiful. He kept his
                        eyes on her until finally she became aware that he was gazing at her, and then she looked back
                        at him in an arch, smiling way, fixing her mouth in a potent line. Cowperwood was captivated.
                        Was she vulnerable? was his one thought. Did that faint smile mean anything more than mere
                        social complaisance? Probably not, but could not a temperament so rich and full be awakened to
                        feeling by his own? When she was through playing he took occasion to say:
                        "Wouldn't you like to stroll into the gallery? Are you fond of
                        pictures?" He gave her his arm.
                    "Now, you know," said Mrs. Sohlberg, quaintlyvery captivatingly, he
                        thought, because she was so pretty "at one time I thought I was going to be a great
                        artist. Isn't scribed 'to whom I owe it all.' You would have to see
                        the drawing to see how funny that is."
                    
                    She laughed softly.
                    Cowperwood responded with a refreshed interest in life. Her laugh was as grateful to
                        him as a summer wind. "See," he said, gently, as they entered the room aglow
                        with the soft light produced by guttered jets, "here is a Luini bought last
                        winter." It was "The Mystic Marriage of St. Catharine." He paused
                        while she surveyed the rapt expression of the attenuated saint. "And here," he
                        went on, "is my greatest find so far." They were before the crafty countenance
                        of C$aEsar Borgia painted by Pinturrichio.
                    "What a strange face!" commented Mrs. Sohlberg, na$iUvely.
                        "I didn't know any one had ever painted him. He looks somewhat like an artist
                        himself, doesn't he?" She had never read the involved and quite Satanic
                        history of this man, and only knew the rumor of his crimes and machinations.
                    "He was, in his way," smiled Cowperwood, who had had an outline of
                        his life, and that of his father, Pope Alexander VI., furnished him at the time of the purchase.
                        Only so recently had his interest in Caesar Borgia begun. Mrs. Sohlberg scarcely gathered the
                        sly humor of it.
                    "Oh yes, and here is Mrs. Cowperwood," she commented, turning to
                        the painting by Van Beers. "It' s high in key, isn't it?"
                        she said, loftily, but with an innocent loftiness that appealed to him. He liked spirit and some
                        presumption in a woman. "What brilliant colors! I like the idea of the garden and the
                        clouds."
                    She stepped back, and Cowperwood, interested only in her, surveyed the line of her
                        back and the profile of her face. Such co-ordinated perfection of line and color!
                        "Where every motion weaves and sings," he might have commented. Instead he
                        said: "That was in Brussels. The clouds were an afterthought, and that vase on the
                        wall, too."
                    "It's very good, I think," commented Mrs. Sohlberg, and
                        moved away.
                    "How do you like this Israels?" he asked. It was the painting
                        called "The Frugal Meal."
                    "I like it," she said, "and also your Bastien
                        Le-Page," referring to "The Forge." "But I think your old
                        masters are much more interesting. If you get many more you  ought to put them together in a room. Don't you think so? I
                        don't care for your Germe very much." She had a cute drawl which he
                        considered infinitely alluring.
                    "Why not?" asked Cowperwood.
                    "Oh, it's rather artificial; don't you think so? I like
                        the color, but the women's bodies are too perfect, I should say. It's very
                        pretty, though."
                    He had little faith m the ability of women aside from their value as objects of art;
                        and yet now and then, as in this instance, they revealed a sweet insight which sharpened his
                        own. Aileen, he reflected, would not be capable of making a remark such as this. She was not as
                        beautiful now as this womannot as alluringly simple, na$iUve, delicious, nor yet as wise. Mrs.
                        Sohlberg, he reflected shrewdly, had a kind of fool for a husband. Would she take an interest in
                        him, Frank Cowperwood? Would a woman like this surrender on any basis outside of divorce and
                        marriage? He wondered. On her part, Mrs. Sohlberg was thinking what a forceful man Cowperwood
                        was, and how close he had stayed by her. She felt his interest, for she had often seen these
                        symptoms in other men and knew what they meant. She knew the pull of her own beauty, and, while
                        she heightened it as artfully as she dared, yet she kept aloof, too, feeling that she had never
                        met any one as yet for whom it was worth while to be different. But Cowperwoodhe needed some one
                        more soulful than Aileen, she thought.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    A NEW AFFECTION
                    THE growth of a relationship between Cowperwood and Rita Sohlberg was fostered quite
                        accidentally by Aileen, who took a foolishly sentimental interest in Harold which yet was not
                        based on anything of real meaning. She liked him because he was a superlatively gracious,
                        flattering, emotional man where womenpretty womenwere concerned. She had some idea she could
                        send him pupils, and, anyhow, it was nice to call at the Sohlberg studio. Her social life was
                        dull enough as it was. So she went, and Cowperwood, mindful of Mrs. Sohlberg, came also. Shrewd
                        to the point of destruction, he encouraged Aileen in her interest in them. He suggested that
                        which Sohlberg could play and be paid. There were boxes drive Sundays or other days.
                    The very chemistry of life seems to play into the hands of a situation of this kind.
                        Once Cowperwood was thinking vividly, forcefully, of her, Rita began to think in like manner of
                        him. Hourly he grew more attractive, a strange, gripping man. Beset by his mood, she was having
                        the devil's own time with her conscience. Not that anything had been said as yet, but
                        he was investing her, gradually beleaguering her, sealing up, apparently, one avenue after
                        another of escape. One Thursday afternoon, when neither Aileen nor he could attend the Sohlberg
                        tea, Mrs. Sohlberg received a magnificent bunch of Jacqueminot roses. "For your nooks
                        and corners," said a card. She knew well enough from whom it came and what it was
                        worth. There were all of fifty dollars, worth of roses. It gave her breath of a world of money
                        that she had never known. Daily she  saw the name of
                        his banking and brokerage firm advertised in the papers. Once she met him in Merrill's
                        store at noon, and he invited her to lunch; but she felt obliged to decline. Always he looked at
                        her with such straight, vigorous eyes. To think that her beauty had done or was doing this! Her
                        mind, quite beyond herself, ran forward to an hour when perhaps this eager, magnetic man would
                        take charge of her in a way never dreamed of by Harold. But she went shopping calling, reading,
                        brooding over. Harold's inefficiency, and stopping oddly sometimes to thinkthe
                        etherealized grip of Cowperwood upon her. Those strong hands of hishow fine they wereand those
                        large, soft-hard, incisive eyes. The puritanism of Wichita (modified sometime since by the art
                        life of Chicago, such as it was) was having a severe struggle with the manipulative subtlety of
                        the agesrepresented in this man.
                    "You know you are very elusive," he said to her one evening at the
                        theater when he sat behind her during the entr'acte, and
                        Harold and Aileen had gone to walk in the foyer. The hubbub of conversation drowned the sound of
                        anything that might be said. Mrs. Sohlberg was particularly pleasing in a lacy evening gown.
                    "No," she replied, amusedly, flattered by his attention and acutely
                        conscious of his physical nearness. By degrees she had been yielding herself to his mood,
                        thrilling at his every word. "It seems to me I am very stable," she went on.
                        I' m certainly substantial enough."
                    She looked at her full, smooth arm lying on her lap.
                    Cowperwood, who was feeling all the drag of her substantiality, but in addition the
                        wonder of her temperament, which was so much richer than Aileen's, was deeply moved.
                        Those little blood moods that no words ever (or rarely) indicate were coming to him from
                        herfaint zephyr-like emanations of emotions, moods, and fancies in her mind which allured him.
                        She was like Aileen in animality, but better, still sweeter, more delicate, much richer
                        spiritually. Or was he just tired of Aileen for the present, he asked himself at times. No, no,
                        he told himself that could not be. Rita Sohlberg was by far the most pleasing woman he had ever
                        known.
                    "Yes, but elusive, just the same," he went on, leaning  toward her. "You remind me of something
                        that I can find no word fora bit of color or a perfume or tonea flash of something. I follow you
                        in my thoughts all the time now. Your knowledge of art interests me. I like your playingit is
                        like you. You make me think of delightful things that have nothing to do with the ordinary run
                        of my life. Do you understand?"
                    "It is very nice," she said, "if I do." She took
                        a breath, softly, dramatically. "You make me think vain things, you know."
                        (Her mouth was a delicious O.) "You paint a pretty picture. She was warm, flushed,
                        suffused with a burst of her own temperament.
                    "You are like that," he went on, insistently. "You make me
                        feel like that all the time. You know," he added, leaning over her chair, "I
                        sometimes think you have never lived. There is so much that would complete your perfectness. I
                        should like to send you abroad or take youanyhow, you should go. You are very wonderful to me.
                        Do you find me at all interesting to you?"
                    "Yes, but"she paused" you know I am afraid of all this and
                        of you." Her mouth had that same delicious formation which had first attracted him.
                        "I don't think we had better talk like this, do you? Harold is very jealous,
                        or would be. What do you suppose Mrs. Cowperwood would think?"
                    "I know very well, but we needn't stop to consider that now, need
                        we? It will do her no harm to let me talk to you. Life is between individuals, Rita. You and I
                        have very much in common. Don't you see that? You are infinitely the most interesting
                        woman I have ever known. You are bringing me something I have never known. Don't you
                        see that? In want you to tell me something truly. Look at me. You are not happy as you are, are
                        you? Not perfectly happy?"
                    "No." She smoothed her fan with her fingers.
                    "Are you happy at all?"
                    "I thought I was once, I'm not any more, I think."
                    "It is so plain why," he commented. You are so much more wonderful
                        than your place gives you scope for. You are an individual, not an acolyte to swing a censer for
                             another. Mr. Sohlberg is very interesting, but
                        you can't be happy that way. It surprises me you haven't seen it."
                    "Oh," she exclaimed, with a touch of weariness, "but
                        perhaps I have."
                    He looked at her keenly, and she thrilled. "I don't think
                        we'd better talk so here," she replied. "You'd better
                        be"
                    He laid his hand on the back of her chair, almost touching her shoulder.
                    "Rita," he said using her given name again, "you wonderful
                        woman!"
                    "Oh!" she breathed.
                    Cowperwood did not see Mrs. Sohlberg again for over a weekten days exactlywhen one
                        afternoon Aileen came for him in a new kind of trap, having stopped first to pick up the
                        Sohlbergs. Harold was up in front with her and she had left a place behind for Cowperwood with
                        Rita. She did not in the vaguest way suspect how interested he washis manner was so deceptive.
                        Aileen imagined that she was the superior woman of the two, the better-looking, the
                        better-dressed, hence the more ensnaring. She could not guess what a lure this woman s
                        temperament had for Cowperwood, who was so brisk, dynamic, seemingly unromantic, but who, just
                        the same, in his nature concealed (under a very forceful exterior) a deep underlying element of
                        romance and fire.
                    "This is charming," he said, sinking down beside Rita.
                        "What a fine evening! And the nice straw hat with the roses, and the nice linen dress.
                        My, my!" The roses were red; the dress white, with thin, green ribbon run through it
                        here and there. She was keenly aware of the reason for his enthusiasm. He was so different from
                        Harold, so healthy and out-of-doorish, so able. To-day Harold had been in tantrums over fate,
                        life, his lack of success.
                    "Oh, I shouldn't complain so much if I were you," she had
                        said to him, bitterly. "You might work harder and storm less."
                    This had produced a scene which she had escaped by going for a walk. Almost at the
                        very moment when she had returned Aileen had appeared. It was a way out,  She had cheered up, and accepted, dressed. So had Sohlberg.
                        Apparently smiling and happy, they had set out on the drive. Now, as Cowperwood spoke, she
                        glanced about her contentedly. I m lovely, she thought, and he loves me. How wonderful it would
                        be if we dared." But she said aloud: "I'm not so very nice.
                        It's just the daydon't you think so? It's a simple dress.
                        I'm not very happy, though, to-night, either."
                    "What's the matter?" he asked, cheeringly, the rumble of
                        the traffic destroying the carrying-power of their voices. He leaned toward her, very anxious to
                        solve any difficulty which might confront her, perfectly willing to ensnare her by kindness.
                        "Isn't there something I can do? We're going now for a long ride to
                        the pavilion in Jackson Park, and then, after dinner, we'll come back by moonlight.
                        Won't that be nice? You must be smiling now and like yourselfhappy. You must be smiling
                        now and like yourselfhappy. You have no reason to be otherwise that I know of. I will do
                        anything for you that you want donethat can be done. You can have anything you want that I can
                        give you. What is it? You know how much I think of you. If you leave your affairs to me you
                        would never have any troubles of any kind."
                    Oh, it isn't anything you can donot now, anyhow. My affairs! Oh yes. What
                        are they? Very simple, all."
                    She had that delicious atmosphere of remoteness even from herself. He was enchanted.
                    "But you are not simple to me, Rita," he said, softly,
                        "nor are your affairs. They concern me very much. You are so important to me. I have
                        told you that. Don't you see how true it is? You are a strange complexity mewonderful.
                        I'm and over you. Ever since I saw you last I have been thinking, thinking. If you have
                        troubles let me share them. You are so much to memy only trouble. I can fix your life. Join it
                        with mine. I need you, and you need me."
                    "Yes," The said, "I know." Then she paused.
                        "It's nothing much," she went on"just a quarrel."
                    "What over?"
                    "Over me, really." The mouth was delicious. "I
                        can't swing the censer always, as you say." That thought  of his had stuck. "It's all right now, though.
                        Isn't the day lovely, be-yoot-i-ful!"
                    Cowperwood looked at her and shook his head. She was such a treasureso
                        inconsequential. Aileen, busy driving and talking, could not see or hear. She was interested in
                        Sohlberg, and the southward crush of vehicles on Michigan Avenue was distracting her attention.
                        As they drove swiftly past budding trees, kempt lawns, fresh-made flower-beds, open windowthe
                        whole seductive world of springCowperwood felt as though life had once more taken a fresh start.
                        His magnetism, if it had been visible, would have enveloped him like a glittering aura. Mrs.
                        Sohlberg felt that this was going to be a wonderful evening.
                    The dinner was at the Parkan open-air chicken $aG la
                        Maryland affair, with waffles and champagne to help out. Aileen flattered by Sohlberg's
                        gaiety under her spell was having a delightful time, jesting, toasting, laughing, walking on the
                        grass. Sohlberg was making love to her in foolish, inconsequential way, as many men were
                        inclined to do; but she was putting him off gaily with "silly boy" and
                        "hush". She was so sure of herself that she was free how she had to laugh at
                        him. Cowperwood, quite certain that she was faithful, took it all in good part. Sohlberg was
                        hand. "He's not a bad sort," he commented. "I rather like
                        him, though I don't think he's so much of a violinist."
                    After dinner they drove along the lake-shore and out through an open bit of
                        tree-blocked prairie land, the moon shining in a clear sky, filling the fields and topping the
                        lake with a silvery effulgence. Mrs. Sohlberg was being inoculated with the virus Cowperwood,
                        and it was taking deadly effect. The tendency of her own stirred emotionally, was to act. She
                        was essentially dynamic and passionate. Cowperwood was beginning to stand out in her mind as the
                        force that he was. It would be wonderful to be loved by such a man. There would be an eager,
                        vivid life between them. It frightened and drew her like a blazing lamp in the dark. To get
                        control of herself she talked of art, people, of Paris, Italy, and he re  sponded in like strain, but all the while he smoothed her hand, and
                        once, under the shadow of some trees, he put his hand to her hair, turned her face, and put his
                        mouth softly to her cheek. She flushed, trembled, turned pale, in the grip of this strange
                        storm, but drew herself together. It was wonderfulheaven. Her old life was obviously going to
                        pieces.
                    "Listen," he said, guardedly. "Will you meet me to-morrow
                        at three just beyond the Rush Street bridge? I will pick you up promptly. You won't
                        have to wait a moment."
                    She paused, meditating, dreaming, almost hypnotized by his strange world of fancy.
                    "Will you?" he asked, eagerly.
                    "Wait," she said, softly. "Let me think. Can I?"
                        She paused.
                    "Yes," she said, after a time, drawing in a deep breath.
                    "Yes" as if she had arranged something in her mind.
                    "My sweet," he whispered, pressing her arm, while he looked at her
                        profile in the moonlight.
                    "But I'm doing a great deal," she replied, softly, a
                        little breathless and a little pale.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    A FATEFUL INTERLUDE
                    COWPERWOOD was enchanted. He kept the proposed tryst with eagerness and found her all
                        that he than anybody he had ever known. In their charming apartment on the North Side which he
                        at once engaged, and where he sometimes spent mornings, evenings, afternoons, as opportunity
                        afforded, he studied her with the most critical eye and found her almost flawless. She had that
                        boundless value which youth and a certain insouciance of manner contribute. There was, delicious
                        to relate, no melancholy in her nature, but a kind of innate sufficiency which neither looked
                        forward to nor back upon troublesome ills. She loved beautiful things, but was not extravagant;
                        and what interested him and commanded his respect was that no urgings of his toward prodigality,
                        however subtly advanced, could affect her. She knew what she wanted, spent carefully, bought
                        tastefully, arrayed herself in ways which appealed to him as the flowers did. His feeling for
                        her became at times so great that he wished, one might almost have said, to destroy itto appease
                        the urge and allay the pull in himself, but it was useless. The charm of her endured. His
                        transports would leave her refreshed apparently, prettier, more graceful than ever, it seemed to
                        him, putting back her ruffled hair with her hand, mouthing at herself prettily in the glass,
                        thinking of many remote delicious things at once.
                    "Do you remember that picture we saw in the art store the other day,
                        Algernon?" she would drawl, calling him by his second name, which she had adopted for
                        herself as being more suited to his moods when with her and more pleasing to her. Cowperwood had
                        protested, but she held  to it. "Do you
                        remember that lovely blue of the old man's coat?" (It was an
                        "Adoration of the Magi.") "Wasn't that
                        be-yoot-i-ful?"
                    She drawled so sweetly and fixed her mouth in such an odd way that he was impelled to
                        kiss her. "You clover blossom," he would say to her, coming over and taking
                        her by the arms. "You sprig of cherry bloom. You Dresden china dream."
                    "Now, are you going to muss my hair, when I've just managed to fix
                        it?"
                    The voice was the voice of careless, genial innocence and the eyes.
                    "Yes, I am, minx."
                    "Yes, but you mustn't smother me, you know. Really, you know you
                        almost hurt me with your mouth. Aren't you going to be nice to me?"
                    "Yes, sweet. But I want to hurt you, too."
                    "Well, then, if you must."
                    But for all his transports the lure was still there. She was like a butterfly, he
                        thought, yellow and white or blue and gold, fluttering over a hedge of wild rose.
                    In these intimacies it was that he came quickly to understand how much she knew of
                        social movements and tendencies, though she was just an individual of the outer fringe. She
                        caught at once a clear understanding of his social point of view, his art ambition, his dreams
                        of something better for himself in every way. She seemed to see clearly that he had not as yet
                        realized himself, that Aileen was not just the woman for him, though she might be one. She
                        talked of her own husband after a time in a tolerant wayhis foibles, defects, weaknesses. She
                        was not unsympathetic, he thought, just weary of a state that was not properly balanced either
                        in love, ability, or insight. Cowperwood had suggested that she could take a larger studio for
                        herself and Harolddo away with the petty economies that had hampered her and himand explain it
                        all on the grounds of a larger generosity on the part of her family. At first she objected; but
                        Cowperwood was tactful and finally brought it about. He again suggested a little while later
                        that she should persuade Harold to go to Europe. There would be the same ostensible
                        reasonadditional means  from her relatives. Mrs.
                        Sohlberg, thus urged, petted, made over, assured, came finally to accept his liberal ruleto bow
                        to him; she became as contented as a cat. With caution she accepted of his largess, and made the
                        cleverest use of it she could. For something over a year neither Sohlberg nor Aileen was aware
                        of the intimacy which had sprung up. Sohlberg, easily bamboozled, went back to Denmark for a
                        visit, then to study in Germany. Mrs. Sohlberg followed Cowperwood to Europe the following year.
                        At Aix-les-Bains, Biarritz, Paris, even London, Aileen never knew that there was an additional
                        figure in the background. Cowperwood was trained by Rita into a really finer point of view. He
                        came to know better music, books, even the facts. She encouraged him in his idea of a
                        representative collection of the old masters, and begged him to be cautious in his selection of
                        moderns. He felt himself to be delightfully situated indeed.
                    The difficulty with this situation, as with all such where an individual ventures
                        thus bucaneeringly on the sea of sex, is the possibility of those storms which result from
                        misplaced confidence, and from out built-up system of ethics relating to property in women. To
                        Cowperwood, however, who was a law unto himself, who knew no law except such as might be imposed
                        upon him by his lack of ability to think, this possibility of entanglement, wrath, rage, pain,
                        offered no particular obstacle. It was not at all certain that any such thing would follow.
                        Where the average man might have found one such liaison difficult to manage, Cowperwood, as we
                        have seen, had previously entered on several such affairs almost simultaneously; and now he had
                        ventured on yet another; in the last instance with much greater feeling and enthusiasm. The
                        previous affairs had been emotional makeshifts at bestmore or less idle philanderings in which
                        his deeper moods and feelings were not concerned. In the case of Mrs. Sohlberg all this was
                        changed. For the present at least she was really all in to him. But this temperamental
                        characteristic of his relating to his love of women, his artistic if not emotional subjection to
                        their beauty, and the mystery of their personalities led him into still a further affair, and
                        this last was not so fortunate in its outcome.
                    
                    Antoinette Nowak had come to him fresh from a West Side high school and a Chicago
                        business college, and had been engaged as his private stenographer and secretary. This girl had
                        blossomed forth into something exceptional, as American children of foreign parents are wont to
                        do. You would have scarcely believed that she, with her fine, lithe body, her good taste in
                        dress, her skill in stenography, bookkeeping, and business details, could be the daughter of a
                        struggling Pole, who had first worked in the Southwest Chicago Steel Mills, and who had later
                        kept a fifth-rate cigar, news, and stationery store in the Polish district, the merchandise of
                        playing-cards and a back room for idling and casual gaming being the principal reasons for its
                        existence. Antoinette at all, but Minka (the Antoinette having been borrowed by her from an
                        article in one of the Chicago Sunday papers), was a fine dark, brooding girl, ambitious and
                        hopeful, who ten days after she had accepted her new place was admiring Cowperwood and following
                        his every daring movement with almost excited interest. To be the wife of such a man, she
                        thoughtto even command his interest, let alone his affectionmust be wonderful. After the dull
                        world she had knownit seemed dull compared to the upper, rarefied realms which she was beginning
                        to glimpse through himand after the average men in the real-estate office over the way where she
                        had first worked, Cowperwood, in his good clothes, his remote mood, his easy, commanding manner,
                        touched the most ambitious chords of her being. One day she saw Aileen sweep in from her
                        carriage, wearing warm brown furs, smart polished boots, a street-suit of corded brown wool, and
                        a fur toque sharpened and emphasized by a long dark-red feather which shot upward like a dagger
                        or a quill pen. Antoinette hated her. She conceived herself to be better, or as good at least.
                        Why was life divided so unfairly? What sort of a man was Cowperwood, anyhow? One night after she
                        had written out a discreet but truthful history of himself which he had dictated to her, and
                        which she had sent to the Chicago newspapers for him soon after the opening of his brokerage
                        office in Chicago, she went home and dreamed of what he had told her, only altered, of course,
                        as in dreams. She  thought that Cowperwood stood
                        beside her in his handsome private office in La Salle Street and asked her:
                    "Antoinette, what do you think of me?" Antoinette was nonplussed,
                        but brave. In her dream she round herself intensely interested in him.
                    "Oh, I don't know what to think. I'm so sorry,"
                        was her answer. Then he laid his hand on hers, on her cheek, and she awoke. She began thinking,
                        what a pity, what a shame that such a man should ever have been in prison. He was so handsome.
                        He had been married twice. Perhaps his first wife was very homely or very mean-spirited. She
                        thought of this, and the next day went to work meditatively. Cowperwood, engrossed in his own
                        plans, was not thinking of her at present. He was And Aileen, seeing her one day merely
                        considered her an underlying. The woman in business was such a novelty that as yet she was declass$ea. Aileen really thought nothing of Antoinette at all.
                    Somewhat over a year after Cowperwood had become intimate with Mrs. Sohlberg his
                        rather practical business relations with Antoinette Nowak took on a more intimate color. What
                        shall we say of thisthat he had already wearied of Mrs. Sohlberg? Not in the least. He was
                        desperately fond of her. Or that he despised Aileen, whom he was thus grossly deceiving? Not at
                        all. She so for the reason that her self-imagined rights were being thus roughly infringed upon.
                        He was sorry for her, but inclined to justify himself on the ground that these other
                        relationswith possibly the exception of Mrs. Sohlbergwere not enduring. If it had been possible
                        to marry Mrs. Sohlberg he might have done so, and he did speculate at times as to whether
                        anything would ever induce Aileen to leave him; but this was more or less idle speculation. He
                        rather fancied they would live out their days together, seeing that he was able thus easily to
                        deceive her. But as for a girl like Antoinette Nowak, she figured in that braided symphony of
                        mere sex attraction which somehow makes up that geometric formula of beauty which rules the
                        world. She was charming in a dark way, beautiful, 
                        with eyes that burned with an unsatisfied fire; and Cowperwood, although at first only in the
                        least moved by her, became by degrees interested in her, wondering at the amazing, transforming
                        power of the American atmosphere.
                    "Are your parents English, Antoinette?" he asked her, one morning,
                        with that easy familiarity which he assumed to all underlings and minor intellectsan air that
                        could not be resented in him, and which was usually accepted as a compliment.
                    Antoinette, clean and fresh in a white shirtwaist, a black walking-skirt, a ribbon of
                        black velvet about her neck, and her long, black hair laid in a heavy braid low over her
                        forehead and held close by a white celluloid comb, looked at him with pleased and grateful eyes.
                        She had been used to such different types of menthe earnest, fiery, excitable, sometimes drunken
                        and swearing men of her childhood, always striking, marching, praying in the Catholic churches;
                        and then the men of the business world, crazy over money, and with no understanding of anything
                        save some few facts about Chicago and its momentary possibilities. In Cowperwood's
                        office, taking his letters and hearing him talk in his quick, genial way with old Laughlin,
                        Sippens, and others, she had learned more of life than she had ever dreamed existed. He was like
                        a vast open window out of which she was looking upon an almost illimitable landscape.
                    "No, sir," she replied, dropping her slim, firm, white hand,
                        holding a black lead-pencil restfully on her notebook. She smiled quite innocently because she
                        was pleased.
                    "I thought not," he said, "and yet you're
                        American enough."
                    "I don't know how it is," she said, quite solemnly.
                        "I have a brother who is quite as American as I am. We don't either of us look
                        like our father or mother."
                    "What does your brother do?" he asked, indifferently.
                    "He's one of the weighers at Arneel & Co. He expects to be
                        a manager sometime. She smiled.
                    Cowperwood looked at her speculatively, and after a  momentary return glance she dropped her eyes. Slowly, in spite of herself, a
                        telltale flush rose and mantled her brown cheeks. It always did when he looked at her.
                    "Take this letter to General Van Sickle," he began, on this
                        occasion quite helpfully, and in a few minutes she had recovered. She could not be near
                        Cowperwood for long at a time, however, without being stirred by a feeling which was not of her
                        own willing. He fascinated and suffused her with a dull fire. She sometimes wondered whether a
                        man so remarkable would ever be interested in a girl like her.
                    The end of this essential interest, of course, was the eventual assumption of
                        Antoinette. One might go through all the dissolving details of days in which she sat taking
                        dictation, receiving instructions, going about her office duties in a state of apparently chill,
                        practical, commercial single-mindedness; but it would be to no purpose. As a matter of fact,
                        without in any way affecting the preciseness and accuracy of her labor, her thoughts were always
                        upon the man in the inner officethe strange master who whole world of individuals, solemn and
                        commercial, who came, presented their cards, talked at times almost interminably, and went away.
                        It was the rare individual, however, she observed, who had the long conversation with
                        Cowperwood, and that interested her the more. His instructions to her were always of the
                        briefest, and he depended on her native intelligence to supply much that he scarcely more than
                        suggested.
                    "You understand, do you?" was his customary phrase.
                    "Yes," she would reply.
                    She felt as though she were fifty times as significant here as she had ever been in
                        her life before.
                    The office was clean, hard, bright, like Cowperwood himself. The morning sun,
                        streaming in through an almost solid glass east front shaded by pale-green roller curtains, came
                        to have an almost romantic atmosphere for her Cowperwood's private office, as in
                        Philadelipa, was a solid cherry-wood box in which he could shut himself completelysight-proof
                        sound-proof. When the door was closed it was sacrosanct. He made it a rule, sensibly, to keep
                        his door open as much as possible, even when he was dictating, sometimes  not. It was in these half-hours of dictationthe door open, as a rule,
                        for he did not care for too much privacythat he and Miss Nowak came closest. After months and
                        months, and because he had been busy with the other woman mentioned, of whom she knew nothing,
                        she came to enter sometimes with a sense of suffocation, sometimes of maidenly shame. It would
                        never have occurred to her to admit frankly that she wanted Cowperwood to make love to her. It
                        would have frightened her to have thought of herself as yielding easily, and yet there was not a
                        detail of his personality that was not now burned in her brain. His light, thick always smoothly
                        parted hair, his wide, clear, inscrutable eyes, his carefully manicured hands, so full and firm,
                        his fresh clothing of delicate, intricate patternshow these fascinated her! He seemed always
                        remote except just at the moment of doing something, when, curiously enough, he seemed intensely
                        intimate and near.
                    One day, after many exchanges of glances in which her own always fell sharplyin the
                        midst of a letterhe arose and closed the half-open door. She did not think so much of that, as a
                        ruleit had happened beforebut now, to-day, because of a studied glance he had given her, neither
                        tender nor smiling, she felt as though something unusual were about to happen. Her own body was
                        going hot and cold by turnsher neck and hands. She had a fine figure, finer than she realized,
                        with shapely limbs and torso. Her head had some of the sharpness of the old Greek coinage, and
                        her hair was plaited as in ancient cut stone. Cowperwood noted it. He came back and, without
                        taking his seat, bent over her and intimately took her hand.
                    "Antoinette," he said, lifting her gently.
                    She looked up, then arosefor he slowly drew herbreathless, the color gone, much of
                        the capable practicality that was hers completely eliminated. She felt limp, inert. She pulled
                        at her hand faintly, and then, lifting her eyes, was fixed by that hard, insatiable gaze of his.
                        Her head swamher eyes were filled with a telltale confusion.
                    "Antoinette!"
                    "Yes," she murmured.
                    She tried to pull herself together, to inject some of her  native rigidity of soul into her airthat rigidity which she always
                        imagined would never desert herbut it was gone. There came instead to her a picture of the far
                        Blue Island Avenue neighborhood from which she emanatedits low brown cottages, and then this
                        smart, hard office and this apparently. A strange foaming seemed to be in her blood. She was
                        deliriously, deliciously numb and happy.
                    "Oh, I don't know what I think," she gasped. "I
                        Oh yes, I do, I do."
                    "I like your name," he said, simply.
                        "Antoinette." And then, pulling her to him, he slipped his arm about her
                        waist.
                    "She was frightened, numb, and then suddenly, not so much from shame as
                        shock, tears rushed to her eyes. She turned and put her hand on the desk and hung her head and
                        sobbed.
                    "Why, Antoinette," he asked, gently, bending over her, are you so
                        much unused to the world? I thought you said you loved me. Do you want me to forget all this and
                        go on as before? I can, of course, if you can, you know."
                    He knew that she loved him, wanted him.
                    She heard him plainly enough, shaking.
                    "Do you?" he said, after a time, giving her moments in which to
                        recover.
                    "Oh, let me cry!" she recovered herself sufficiently to say, quite
                        wildly. "I don't know why I'm crying. It's just because
                        I'm nervous, I suppose. Please don't mind me now."
                    "Antoinette," he repeated, "look at me! Will you
                        stop?"
                    "Oh no, not now. My eyes are so bad."
                    "Antoinette! Come, look!" He put his hand under her chin.
                        "See, I'm not so terrible."
                    "Oh," she said, when her eyes met his again, "I"
                        And then she folded her arms against his breast while he petted her hand and held her close.
                    "I'm not so bad, Antoinette. It's you as much as it is me.
                        You do love me, then?"
                    "Yes, yesoh yes!"
                    
                    "And you don't mind?"
                    "No. It's all so strange." Her face was hidden.
                    She put up her lips and slipped her arms about him. He held her close.
                    He tried teasingly to make her say why she cried, thinking the while of what Aileen
                        or Rita would think if they knew, but she would not at firstadmitting later that it was a sense
                        of evil. Curiously she also thought of Aileen, and how, on occasion, she had seen her sweep in
                        and out. Now she was sharing with her (the dashing Mrs. Cowperwood, so vain and superior) the
                        wonder of his affection. Strange as it may seem, she looked on it now as rather an honor. She
                        had risen in her own estimationher sense of life and power. Now, more than ever before, she knew
                        something of life because she knew something of love and passion. The future seemed tremulous
                        with promise. She went back to her machine after a while, thinking of this. What would it all
                        come to? she wondered, wildly. You could not have told by her eyes that she had been crying.
                        Instead, a rich glow in her brown cheeks heightened her beauty. No disturbing sense of Aileen
                        was involved with all this. Antoinette was of the newer order that was beginning to privately
                        question ethics and morals. She had a right to her life, lead where it would. And to what it
                        would bring her. The feel of Cowperwood's lips was still fresh on hers. What would the
                        future reveal to her now? What?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    AN OVERTURE TO CONFLICT
                    THE result of this understanding was not so important to Cowperwood as it was to
                        Antoinette. In a vagrant mood he had unlocked a spirit here which was fiery, passionate, but in
                        his case hopelessly worshipful. However much she might be grieved by him, Antoinette, as he
                        subsequently learned, would never sin against his personal welfare. Yet she was unwittingly the
                        means of first opening the flood-gates of suspicion on Aileen, thereby establishing in the
                        latter's mind the fact of Cowperwood's persistent unfaithfulness.
                    The incidents which led up to this were comparatively trivialnothing more, indeed, at
                        first than the sight of Miss Nowak and Cowperwood talking intimately in his office one afternoon
                        when the others had gone and the fact that she appeared to be a little bit disturbed by
                        Aileen's arrival. Later came the discoverythough of this Aileen could not be absolutely
                        sureof Cowperwood and Antoinette in a closed one stormy November afternoon in State Street when
                        he was supposed to be out of the city. She was coming out of Merrill s store at the time, and
                        just happened to glance at the passing vehicle, which was running near the curb. Aileen,
                        although uncertain, was greatly shocked. Could it be possible that he had not left town? She
                        journeyed to his office on the pretext of taking old Laughlin's dog, Jennie, a pretty
                        collar she had found; actually to find if Antoinette were away at the same time. Could it be
                        possible, she kept asking herself, that Cowperwood had become interested in his own
                        stenographer? The fact that the office assumed that he was out of town and that Antoinette was
                        not there gave her pause. Laughlin quite innocently informed her that he thought Miss Nowak  had gone to one of the libraries to make up certain
                        reports. It left her in doubt.
                    What was Aileen to think? Her moods and aspirations were linked so closely with the
                        love and success of Cowperwood that she could not, in spite of herself, but take fire at the
                        least thought of losing him. He himself wondered sometimes, as he threaded the mesh-like paths
                        of sex, what she would do once she discovered his variant conduct. Indeed, there had been little
                        occasional squabbles, not sharp, but suggestive, when he was trifling about with Mrs. Kittridge,
                        Mrs. Ledwell, and others. There were, as may be imagined, from time to time absences, brief and
                        unimportant, which he explained easily, passional indifferences which were not explained so
                        easily, and the like; but since his affections were not really involved in any of those
                        instances, he had managed to smooth the matter over quite nicely.
                    "Why do you say that?" he would demand, when she suggested, apropos
                        of a trip or a day when she had not been with him, that there might nave Deen another.
                        "You know there hasn't. If I am going in for that sort of thing
                        you'll learn it fast enough. Even if I did, it wouldn't, mean that I was
                        unfaithful to you spiritually."
                    "Oh, wouldn't it?" exclaimed Aileen, resentfully, and with
                        some disturbance of spirit. "Well, you can keep your spiritual faithfulness.
                        I'm not going to be content with any sweet thoughts."
                    Cowperwood laughed even as she laughed, for he knew she was right and he felt sorry
                        for her. At the same time her biting humor pleased him. He knew that she did not really suspect
                        him of actual infidelity; he was obviously so fond of her. But she also knew that he was
                        innately attractive to women, and that there were enough of the philandering type to want to
                        lead him astray and make her life a burden. Also that he might prove a very willing victim.
                    Sex desire and its fruition being such an integral factor in the marriage and every
                        other sex relation woman is prone to study the periodic manifestations that go with it quite as
                        one dependent on the weathera sailor, for examplemight study the barometer. In this Aileen was
                        no exception. She was so beautiful herself, and had 
                        been so much to Cowperwood physically, that she had followed the corresponding evidences or
                        feeling in him with the utmost interest, accepting the recurring ebullitions of his physical
                        emotions as an evidence of her own enduring charm. As time went on, howeverand that was long
                        before Mrs. Sohlberg or any one else had appearedthe original flare of passion had undergone a
                        form of subsidence, though not noticeable enough to be disturbing. Aileen thought and thought,
                        but she did not investigate. Indeed, because of the precariousness of her own situation as a
                        social failure she was afraid to do so.
                    With the arrival of Mrs. Sohlberg and then of Antoinette Nowak as factors in the
                        potpourri, the situation became more difficult. Humanly fond of Aileen as Cowperwood was, and
                        because of his lapses and her affection, desirous of being kind, yet for the time being he was
                        alienated almost completely from her. He grew remote according as his clandestine affairs were
                        drifting or blazing, without, however, losing his firm grip on his financial affairs, and Aileen
                        noticed it. It worried her. She was so vain that she could scarcely believe that Cowperwood
                        could long be indifferent, and for a while her sentimental interest in Sohlberg's
                        future and unhappiness of soul beclouded her judgment; but she finally began to feel the drift
                        of affairs. The pathos of all this is that it so quickly descends into the realm of the
                        unsatisfactory, the banal, the pseudo intimate. Aileen noticed it at once. She tried
                        protestations. "You don't kiss me the way you did once," and then a
                        little later, "You haven't noticed me hardly for four whole days.
                        What's the matter?"
                    "Oh, I don't know," replied Cowperwood, easily;
                        "I guess I want you as much as ever. I don't see that I am any
                        different." He took her in his arms and petted and caressed her; but Aileen was
                        suspicious, nervous.
                    The psychology of the human animal, when confronted by these tangles, these ripping
                        tides of the heart, has little to do with so-called reason or logic. It is amazing how in the
                        face of passion and the affections and the changing face of life all plans and theories by which
                        we guide ourselves fall to the ground. Here was Aileen talking bravely at the time she invaded
                        Mrs. Lillian Cowperwood's domain  of the
                        necessity of "her Frank" finding a woman suitable to his needs, tastes,
                        abilities, but now that the possibility of another woman equally or possibly better suited to
                        him was looming in the offingalthough she had no idea who it might beshe could not reason, in
                        the same way. Her ox, God wot, was the one that was being gored. What if he should find some one
                        whom he could want more than he did her? Dear heaven, how terrible that would be! What would she
                        do? she asked herself, thoughtfully. She lapsed into the blues one afternoonalmost criedshe
                        could scarcely say why. Another time she thought of all the terrible things she would do, how
                        difficult she would make it for any other woman who invaded her preserves. How ever, she was not
                        sure. Would she declare war if she discovered another? She knew she would eventually; and yet
                        she knew, too, that if she did, and Cowperwood were set in his passion, thoroughly alienated, it
                        would do no good. It would be terrible, but what could she do to win him back? That was the
                        issue. Once warned, however, by her suspicious questioning, Cowperwood was more mechanically
                        attentive than ever. He did his best to conceal his altered moodhis enthusiasms for Mrs.
                        Sohlberg, his interest in Antoinette Nowakand this helped somewhat. But finally there was a
                        detectable change. Aileen noticed it first after they had been back from Europe nearly a year.
                        At this time she was still interested in Sohlberg, but in a harmlessly flirtatious way. She
                        thought he might be interesting physically, but would he be as delightful as Cowperwood? Never!
                        When she felt that Cowperwood himself might be changing she pulled herself up at once, and when
                        Antoinette appearedthe carriage incidentSohlberg lost his, at best, unstable charm. She began to
                        meditate on what a terrible thing it would be to lose Cowperwood, seeing that she had failed to
                        establish herself socially. Perhaps that had something to do with his defection. No doubt it
                        had. Yet she could not believe, after all his protestations of affection in Philadelphia, after
                        all her devotion to him in those dark days of his degradation and punishment, that he would
                        really turn on her. No, he might stray momentarily, but if she protested enough, made a scene,
                        perhaps, he would not feel so free to  injure herhe
                        would remember and be loving and devoted again. After seeing him, or imagining she had seen him,
                        in the carriage, she thought at first that she would question him, but later decided that she
                        would wait and watch more closely. Perhaps he was beginning to run around with other women.
                        There was safety in numbersthat she knew. Her heart, her pride, was hurt, but not broken.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE CLASH
                    THE peculiar personality of Rita Sohlberg was such that by her very action she
                        ordinarily allayed suspicion, or rather distracted it. Although a novice, she had a strange
                        ease, courage, or balance of soul which kept her whole and self-possessed under the most trying
                        of circumstances. She might have been overtaken in the most compromising of positions, but her
                        manner would always have indicated ease, a sense of innocence, nothing unusual, for she had no
                        sense of moral degradation in this matterno troublesome emotion as to what was to flow from a
                        relationship of this kind, no worry as to her own soul, sin, social opinion, or the like. She
                        was really interested in art and lifea pagan, in fact. Some people are thus hardily equipped. It
                        is the most notable attribute of the hardier type of personalitiesnot necessarily the most
                        brilliant or successful. You might have said that her soul was Na$iUvely unconscious of the
                        agony of others in loss. She would have taken any loss to herself with an amazing
                        equablenesssome qualms, of course, but not manybecause her vanity and sense of charm would have
                        made look forward to something better or as good.
                    She had called on Aileen quite regularly in the past, with or without Harold, and had
                        frequently driven with the Cowperwoods or joined them at the theater or elsewhere. She had
                        decided, after becoming intimate with Cowperwood, to study art again, which was a charming
                        blind, for it called for attendance at afternoon or evening classes which she frequently
                        skipped. Besides, since Harold had more money he was becoming gayer, more reckless and
                        enthusiastic over women, and Cowperwood deliberately advised her to encourage him in some
                        liaison which, in case  exposure should subsequently
                        come to them, would effectually tie his hands.
                    "Let him get in some affair," Cowperwood told Rita.
                        "We'll put detectives on his trail and get evidence. He won't have a
                        world to say."
                    "We don't really need to do that," she protested sweetly,
                        na$iUvely. "He's been in enough scrapes as it is. He's given me some
                        of the letters" (she pronounced it "lettahs") "written
                        him."
                    "But we'll need actual witnesses if we ever need anything at all.
                        Just tell me when he's in love again, and I'll do the rest."
                    "You know I think," she drawled, amusingly, "that he is
                        now. I saw him on the street the other day with one of his studentsrather a pretty girl,
                        too."
                    Cowperwood was pleased. Under the circumstances he would almost have been willingnot
                        quitefor Aileen to succumb to Sohlberg in order to entrap her and make his situation secure. Yet
                        he really did not wish it in the last analysiswould have been grieved temporarily if she had
                        deserted him. However, in the case of Sohlberg, detectives were employed, the new affair with
                        the flighty pupil was unearthed and sworn to by witnesses, and this, combined with the
                        "lettahs" held by Rita, constituted ample material wherewith to "hush
                        up" the musician if ever he became unduly obstreperous. So Cowperwood and Rita s state
                        was quite comfortable.
                    But Aileen, meditating over Antoinette Nowak, was beside herself with curiosity,
                        doubt, worry. She did not want to injure Cowperwood in any way after his bitter Philadelphia
                        experience, and yet when she thought of his deserting her in this way she fell into a great
                        rage. Her vanity, as much as her love, was hurt. What could she do to justify or set at rest her
                        suspicions? Watch him personally? She was too dignified and vain to lurk about street-corners or
                        offices or hotels. Never! Start a quarrel without additional evidencethat would be silly. He was
                        too shrewd to give her further evidence once she spoke. He would merely deny it. She brooded
                        irritably, recalling after a time, and with an aching heart, that her father had put detectives
                        on her track once ten years before,  and had actually
                        discovered her relations with Cowperwood and their rendezvous. Bitter as that memory
                        wastorturingyet now the same means seemed not too abhorrent to employ under the circumstances.
                        No harm had come to Cowperwood m the former instance, she reasoned to herselfno especial
                        harmfrom that discovery (this was not true), and none would come to him now. (This also was not
                        true.) But one must forgive a fiery, passionate soul, wounded to the quick, some errors of
                        judgment. Her thought was that she would first be sure just what it was her beloved was doing,
                        and then decide what course to take. But she knew that she was treading on dangerous ground, and
                        mentally she recoiled from the consequences which might follow. He might leave her if she fought
                        him too bitterly. He might treat her as he had treated his first wife, Lillian.
                    She studied her liege lord curiously these days, wondering if it were true that he
                        had deserted her already, as he had deserted his first wife thirteen years before, wondering if
                        he could really take up with a girl as common as Antoinette Nowakwondering, wondering,
                        wonderinglhalf afraid and yet courageous. What could be done with him? If only he still loved
                        her all would be well yetbut oh!
                    The detective agency to which she finally applied, after weeks of soul-racking
                        suspense, was one of those disturbingly human implements which many are not opposed to using on
                        occasion, when it is the only means of solving a troublous problem of wounded feelings or
                        jeopardized interests. Aileen, being obviously rich, was forthwith shamefully overcharged; but
                        the services agreed upon were well performed. To her amazement, chagrin, and distress, after a
                        few weeks of observation Cowperwood was reported to have affairs not only with Antoinette Nowak,
                        whom she did suspect, but also with Mrs. Sohlberg. And these two affairs at one and the same
                        time. For the moment it left Aileen actually stunned and breathless.
                    The significance of Rita Sohlberg to her in this hour was greater than that of any
                        woman before or after. Of all living things, women dread women most of all, and of all women the
                        clever and beautiful. Rita Sohlberg had been  growing
                        on Aileen as a personage, for she had obviously been prospering during this past year, and her
                        beauty had been amazingly enhanced thereby. Once Aileen had encountered Rita in a light trap on
                        the Avenue, very handsome and very new, and she had commented on it to Cowperwood, whose reply
                        had been: "Her father must be making some money, Sohlberg could never earn it for
                        her."
                    Aileen sympathized with Harold because of his temperament, but she knew that what
                        Cowperwood said was true.
                    Another time, at a box-party at the theater, she had noted the rich elaborateness of
                        Mrs. Sohlberg's dainty frock, the endless pleatings of pale silk, the startling charm
                        of the needlework and the ribbons;countless, rosetted, smallthat meant work on the part of some
                        one.
                    "How lovely this is," she had commented.
                    "Yes," Rita had replied, airily; "I thought,
                        don't you' know, my dressmaker would never get done working on it."
                    It had cost, all told, two hundred and twenty dollars, and Cowperwood had gladly paid
                        the bill.
                    Aileen went home at the time thinking of Rita's taste and of how well she
                        had harmonized her materials to her personality. She was truly charming.
                    Now, however, when it appeared that the same charm that had appealed to her had
                        appealed to Cowperwood, she conceived an angry, animal opposition to it all. Rita Sohlberg! Ha!
                        A lot of satisfaction she'd get knowing, as she would soon, that Cowperwood was sharing
                        his affection for her with Antoinette Nowaka mere stenographer. And a lot of satisfaction
                        Antoinette would getthe cheap upstartwhen she learned, as she would, that Cowperwood loved her
                        so lightly that he would take an apartment for Rita Sohlberg and let a cheap hotel or an
                        assignation-house do for her.
                    But in spite of this savage exultation her thoughts kept coming back to herself, to
                        her own predicament, to torture and destroy her. Cowperwood, the liar! Cowperwood, the
                        pretender! Cowperwood, the sneak! At one moment she conceived a kind of horror of the man
                        because of all his protestations to her; at the next a ragebitter, swelling;  at the next a pathetic realization of her own
                        altered position. Say what one will, to take the love of a man like Cowperwood away from a woman
                        like Aileen was to leave her high and dry on land, as a fish out of its native element, to take
                        all the wind out of her sailsalmost to kill her. Whatever position she had once thought to hold
                        through him, was now jeopardized. Whatever joy or glory she I had had in being Mrs. Frank
                        Algernon Cowperwood, it was now tarnished. She sat in her room, this same day after the
                        detectives had given their report, a tired look in her eyes, the first set lines her pretty
                        mouth had ever known snowing about it, her past and her future whirling painfully and nebulously
                        in her brain. Suddenly she got up, and, seeing Cowperwood's picture on her dresser, his
                        still impressive eyes contemplating her, she seized it and threw it on the floor, stamping on
                        his handsome face with her pretty foot, and raging at him in her heart. The dog! The brute! Her
                        brain was full of the thought of Rita's white arms about him, of his lips to hers. The
                        spectacle of Rita's fluffy gowns, her enticing costumes, was in her eyes. Rita should
                        not have him; she should not have anything connected with him, nor, for that matter, Antoinette
                        Nowak, eitherthe wretched upstart, the hireling. To think he should stoop to an office
                        stenographer! Once on that thought, she decided that he should not be allowed to have a woman as
                        an assistant any more. He owed it to her to love her after all she had done for him, the coward,
                        and to let other women alone. Her brain whirled with strange thoughts. She was really not sane
                        in her present state. She was so wrought up by her prospective loss that she could only think of
                        rash, impossible, destructive things to do. She dressed swiftly, feverishly, and, calling a
                        closed carnage from the coach-house, ordered herself to be driven to the New Arts Building. She
                        would show this rosy cat of a woman, this smiling piece of impertinence, this she-devil, whether
                        she would lure Cowperwood away. She meditated as she rode. She would not sit back and be robbed
                        as Mrs. Cowperwood had been by her. Never! He could not treat her that way. She would die first!
                        She would kill Rita Sohlberg and Antoinette Nowak and Cowperwood and herself first. She would
                        prefer to die  that way rather than lose his love. Oh
                        yes, a thousand times!
                    Fortunately, Rita Sohlberg was not at the New Arts Building, or Sohlberg, either.
                        They had gone to a reception. Nor was she at the apartment on the North Side, where, under the
                        name of Jacobs, as Aileen had been informed by the detectives, she and Cowperwood kept
                        occasional tryst. Aileen hesitated for a moment, feeling it useless to wait, then she ordered
                        the coachman to drive to her husband's office. It was now nearly five o'clock.
                        Antoinette and Cowperwood had both gone, but she did not know it. She changed her mind, however,
                        before she reached the officefor it was Rita Sohlberg she wished to reach firstand ordered her
                        coachman to drive back to the Sohlberg studio. But still they had not returned. In kind of
                        aimless rage she went home, wondering now she should reach Rita Sohlberg first and alone. Then,
                        to her savage delight, the game walked into her bag. The Sohlbergs, returning home at six
                        o'clock from some reception farther out Michigan Avenue, had stopped, at the wish of
                        Harold, merely to pass the time of day with Mrs. Cowperwood. Rita was exquisite in a pale-blue
                        and lavender concoction, with silver braid worked in here and there. Her gloves and shoes were
                        pungent bits of romance, her hat a dream of graceful lines. At the sight of her, Aileen, who was
                        still in the hall and had opened the door herself, fairly burned to seize her by the throat and
                        strike her; but she restrained herself sufficiently to say, "Come in." She
                        still had sense enough and self-possession enough to conceal her wrath and to the close the
                        door. Beside his wife Harold was standing, offensively smug and inefficient in the fashionable
                        frock-coat and silk hat of the time, a restraining influence as yet. He was bowing and smiling:
                    "Oh." This sound was neither an "oh" nor an
                        "ah," but a kind of Danish inflected "awe," which was
                        usually not unpleasing to hear. "How are you, once more, Meeses Cowperwood? It eez
                        sudge a pleasure to see you again awe."
                    "Won't you two just go in the reception-room a moment,"
                        said Aileen, almost hoarsely. "I'll be right in. I want to get
                        something." Then, as an afterthought, she 
                        called very sweetly: "Oh, Mrs. Sohlberg, won't you come up to my room for a
                        moment? I have something I want to show you."
                    Rita responded promptly. She always felt it incumbent upon her to be very nice to
                        Aileen.
                    "We have only a moment to stay," she replied, archly and sweetly,
                        and coming out in the hall, "but I'll come up."
                    Aileen stayed to see her go first, then followed up-stairs swiftly, surely, entered
                        after Rita, and closed the door. With a courage and rage born of a purely animal despair, she
                        turned and locked it; then she wheeled swiftly, her eyes lit with a savage fire, her cheeks
                        pale, but later aflame, her hands, her fingers working in a strange, unconscious way.
                    "So," she said, looking at Rita, and coming toward her quickly and
                        angrily, "you'll steal my husband, will you? You'll live in a secret
                        apartment, will you? You'll come here smiling and lying to me, will you? You beast! You
                        cat! You prostitute! I'll show you now! You tow-headed beast! I know you now for what
                        you are! I'll teach you once for all! Take that, and that, and that!"
                    Suiting action to word, Aileen had descended upon her in a whirlwind, animal fashion,
                        striking, scratching, choking, tearing her visitor s hat from her head, ripping the laces from
                        her neck, beating her in the face, and clutching violently at her hair and throat to choke and
                        mar her beauty if she could. For the moment she was really crazy with rage.
                    By the suddenness of this onslaught Rita Sohlberg was taken back completely. It all
                        came so swiftly, so terribly, she scarcely realized what was happening before the storm was upon
                        her. There was no time for arguments, pleas, anything. Terrified, shamed, nonplussed, she went
                        down quite limply under this almost lightning attack. When Aileen began to strike her she
                        attempted in vain to defend herself, uttering at the same time piercing screams which could be
                        heard throughout the house. She screamed shrilly, strangely, like a wild dying animal. On the
                        instant all her fine, civilized poise had deserted her. From the sweetness and delicacy of the
                        reception atmospherethe  polite cooings, posturings,
                        and mouthings so charming to contemplate, so alluring in hershe had dropped on the instant to
                        that native animal condition that shows itself in fear. Her eyes had a look of hunted horror,
                        her lips and cheeks were pale and drawn. She retreated in a staggering, ungraceful way; she
                        writhed and squirmed, screaming in the strong clutch of the irate and vigorous Aileen.
                    Cowperwood entered the hall below just before the screams began. He had followed the
                        Sohlbergs almost immediately from his office, and, chancing to glance in the reception-room, he
                        had observed Sohlberg smiling, radiant, an intangible air of self-ingratiating, social, and
                        artistic sycophancy about him, his long black frock-coat buttoned smoothly around his body, his
                        silk hat still in his hands.
                    "Awe, how do you do, Meezter Cowperwood," he was beginning to say,
                        his curly head shaking in a friendly manner, "I'm soa glad to see you
                        again" whenbut who can imitate a scream of terror? We have no words, no symbols even,
                        for those essential sounds of fright and agony. They filled the hall, the library, the
                        reception-room, the distant kitchen even, and basement with a Kina of vibrant terror.
                    Cowperwood, always the man of action as opposed to nervous cogitation, braced up on
                        the instant like taut wire. What, for heaven's sake, could that be? What a terrible
                        cry! Sohlberg the artist, responding like a chameleon to the various emotional complexions of
                        life, began to breathe stertorously. to blanch, to lose control of him-self.
                    "My God!" he exclaimed, throwing up his hands,
                        "that's Rita! She s up-stairs in your wife s room! Something must have
                        happened. Oh" On the instant he was quite beside himself, terrified, shaking, almost
                        useless. Cowperwood, on the contrary, without a moment's hesitation had thrown his coat
                        to the floor, dashed up the stairs, followed by Sohlberg. What could it be? Where was Aileen? As
                        he bounded upward a clear sense of something untoward came over him; it was sickening,
                        terrifying. Scream! Scream! Scream! came the sounds.' "Oh, my  God! don't kill me! Help! Help!"
                            Screamthis last a long, terrified, ear-piercing wail.
                    Sohlberg was about to drop from heart failure, he was so frightened. His face was an
                        ashen gray. Cowperwood seized the door-knob vigorously and, finding the door locked, shook,
                        rattled, and banged at it.
                    "Aileen!" he called, sharply. "Aileen! What's the
                        matter in there? Open this door, Aileen!"
                    "Oh, my God! Oh, help! help! Oh, mercyo-o-o-o-oh!"
                    It was the moaning voice of Rita.
                    "I'll show you, you she-devil!" he heard Aileen calling.
                        "I'll teach you, you beast! You cat, you prostitute! There! there!
                        there!"
                    "Aileen!" he called, hoarsely. "Aileen!" Then,
                        getting no response, and the screams continuing, he turned angrily.
                    "Stand back!" he exclaimed to Sohlberg, who was moaning helplessly.
                        "Get me a chair, get me a tableany-thing." The butler ran to obey, but before
                        he could return Cowperwood had found an implement. "Here!" he said, seizing a
                        long, thin, heavily carved and heavily wrought oak chair which stood at the head of the stairs
                        on the landing. He whirled it vigorously over his head. Smash! The sound rose louder than the
                        scream inside.
                    Smash! The chair creaked and almost broke, but the door did not give.
                    
                        Smash! The chair broke and the door flew open. He had knocked the
                        lock loose and had leaped in to where Aileen, kneeling over Rita on the floor, was choking and
                        beating her into insensibility. Like an animal he was upon her.
                    "Aileen," he shouted, fiercely, in a hoarse, ugly, guttural voice,
                        "you fool! You idiotlet go! What the devil's the matter with you? What are you
                        trying to do? Have you lost your mind?you crazy idiot!"
                    He seized her strong hands and ripped them apart. He fairly dragged her back, half
                        twisting and half throwing her over his knee, loosing her clutching hold. She was so insanely
                        furious that she still struggled and cried, saying:
                    "Let me at her! Let me at her! I'll teach her! Don't you
                        try to hold me, you dog! I'll show you, too, you bruteoh"
                    
                    "Pick up that woman," called Cowperwood, firmly, to Sohlberg and
                        the butler, who had entered. "Get her out of here quick! My wife has gone crazy. Get
                        her out of here, I tell you! This woman doesn't know what she's doing. Take
                        her out and get a doctor. What sort of a hell's m$eCl$eCe is this, anyway?"
                    "Oh," moaned Rita, who was torn and fainting, almost unconscious
                        from sheer terror.
                    "I'll kill her!" screamed Aileen. "I'll
                        murder her! I'll murder you too, you dog! Oh"she began striking at him
                        "I'll teach you how to run around with other women, you dog, you
                        brute!"
                    Cowperwood merely gripped her hands and shook her vigorously, forcefully.
                    "What the devil has got into you, anyway, you fool?" he said to
                        her, bitterly, as they carried Rita out. "What are you trying to do, anywaymurder her?
                        Do you want the police to come in here? Stop your screaming and behave yourself, or
                        I'll shove a handkerchief in your mouth! Stop, I tell you! Stop! Do you hear me? This
                        is enough, you fool!" He clapped his hand over her mouth, pressing it tight and forcing
                        her back against him. He shook her brutally, angrily. He was very strong. "Now will you
                        stop," he insisted, "or do you want me to choke you quiet? I will, if you
                        don't. You're out of your mind. Stop, I tell you! [So this is the way you
                        carry on when things don't go to suit you?"] She was sobbing, struggling,
                        moaning, half screaming, quite beside herself.
                    "Oh, you crazy fool!" he said, swinging her round, and with an
                        effort getting out a handkerchief, which he forced over her face and in her mouth.
                        "There," he said, relievedly, "now will you shut up?"
                        Holding her tight in an iron grip, he let her struggle and turn, quite ready to put an end to
                        her breathing if necessary.
                    Now that he had conquered her, he continued to hold her tightly, stooping beside her
                        on one knee, listening and meditating. Hers, was surely a terrible passion. From some points of
                        view he could not blame her. Great was her provocation, great her love. He knew her disposition
                        well enough to have anticipated something of this sort. Yet the wretchedness, shame, scandal of
                        the terrible affair  upset his customary equilibrium.
                        To think any one should give way to such a storm as this! To think that Aileen should do it! To
                        think that Rita should have been so mistreated! It was not at all unlikely that she was
                        seriously injured, marred for lifepossibly even killed. The horror of that! The ensuing storm of
                        public rage! A trial! His whole career gone up in one terrific explosion of woe, anger, death!
                        Great God!
                    He called the butler to him by a nod of his head, when the latter, who had gone out
                        with Rita, hurried back.
                    "How is she?" he asked, desperately. " Seriously
                        hurt?"
                    "No, sir; I think not. I believe she's just fainted.
                        She'll be all right in a little while, sir. Can I be of any service, sir?"
                    Ordinarily Cowperwood would have smiled at such a scene. Now he was cold, sober.
                    "Not now," he replied, with a sigh of relief, still holding Aileen
                        firmly. "Go out and close the door. Call a doctor. Wait in the hall. When he comes,
                        call me."
                    Aileen, conscious of things being done for Rita, of sympathy being extended to her,
                        tried to get up, to scream again; but she couldn't; her lord and master held her in an
                        ugly hold. When the door was closed he said again: "Now, Aileen, will you hush? Will
                        you let me get up and talk to you, or must we stay here all night? Do you me to drop you forever
                        after to-night? I understand all about this, but I am in control now, and I am going to stay so.
                        You will come to your senses and be reasonable, or I will leave you to-morrow as sure as I am
                        here". His voice rang convincingly. "Now, shall we talk sensibly, or will you
                        go on making a fool of yourselfdisgracing me, disgracing the house, making yourself and myself
                        the laughing-stock of the servants, the neighborhood, the city? This is a fine showing
                        you've made to-day, Good God! A fine showing, indeed! A brawl in this house, a fight! I
                        thought you had better sensemore self-respectreally I did. You have seriously jeopardized my
                        chances here in Chicago. You have seriously injured and possibly killed a woman. You could even
                        be hanged for that. Do you hear me?"
                    "Oh, let them hang me," groaned Aileen. "I want to
                        die."
                    
                    He took away his hand from her mouth, loosened his grip upon her arms, and let her
                        get to her feet. She was still torrential, impetuous, ready to upbraid him, but once standing
                        she was confronted by him, cold, commanding, fixing her with a fishy eye. He wore a look now she
                        had never seen on his face beforea hard, wintry, dynamic flare, which one but his commercial
                        enemies, and only those occasionally, had seen.
                    "Now stop!" he exclaimed. "Not one more word! Not one! Do
                        you hear me?"
                    She wavered, quailed, gave way. All the fury of her tempestuous soul fell, as the sea
                        falls under a lapse of wind. She had had it in heart, on her lips, to cry again, "You
                        dog! you brute!" and a hundred other terrible, useless things, but somehow, under the
                        pressure of his gaze, the hardness of his heart, the words on her lips died away. She looked at
                        him uncertainly for a moment, then, turning, she threw herself on the bed near by, clutched her
                        cheeks and mouth and eyes, and, rocking back and forth in an agony of woe, she began to sob:
                    "Oh, my God! my God! My heart! My life! I want to die! I want to
                        die!"
                    Standing there watching her, there suddenly came to Cowperwood a keen sense of her
                        soul hurt, her heart hurt, and he was moved.
                    "Aileen," he said, after a moment or two, coming over and touching
                        her quite gently, "Aileen! Don't cry so. [I haven't left you yet.
                        Your life isn't utterly ruined.] Don't cry. This is bad business, but perhaps
                        it is not without remedy. Come now, pull yourself together, Aileen!"
                    For answer she merely rocked and moaned, uncontrolled and uncontrollable.
                    Being anxious about conditions elsewhere, he turned and stepped out into the hall. He
                        must make some show for the benefit of the doctor and the servants; he must look after Rita, and
                        offer some sort of passing explanation to Sohlberg.
                    "Here," he called to a passing servant, "shut that door
                        and watch it. If Mrs. Cowperwood comes out call me instantly."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    "HELL HATH NO FURY"
                    RITA was not dead by any means only seriously bruised, scratched, and choked. Her
                        scalp was cut in one place. Aileen had repeatedly beaten her head on the floor, and this might
                        have resulted seriously if Cowperwood had not entered as quickly as he had. Sohlberg for the
                        momentfor some little time, in factwas under the impression that Aileen had truly lost her mind,
                        had suddenly gone crazy, and that those shameless charges he had brain. Nevertheless The things
                        she had said haunted him. He was in a bad state himselfalmost a subject for the doctor. His lips
                        were bluish, his cheeks blanched. Rita had been carried into an adjoining bedroom and laid upon
                        a bed; cold water, ointments, a bottle of arnica had been procured; and when Cowperwood appeared
                        she was conscious and somewhat better. But she was still very weak and smarting from her wounds,
                        both mental and physical. When the doctor arrived he had been told that a lady, a guest, had
                        fallen down-stairs; when Cowperwood came in the physician was dressing her wounds.
                    As soon as he had gone Cowperwood said to the maid in attendance, "Go get me
                        some hot water." As the latter disappeared he bent over and kissed Rita's
                        bruised lips, putting his finger to his own in warning sign.
                    "Rita," he asked, softly, "are you fully
                        conscious?" She nodded weakly.
                    "Listen,-then," he said, bending over and speaking slowly.
                        "Listen carefully. Pay strict attention to what I'm saying. You must
                        understand every word, and do as I tell you. You are not seriously injured. You will be all
                        right. This will blow over. I have sent for another doctor  to call on you at your studio. Your husband has gone for some fresh clothes.
                        He will come back in a little while. My carriage will take you home when you are a little
                        stronger. You mustn't worry. Everything will be all right, but you must deny
                        everything, do you hear? Everything! In so far as you know, Mrs. Cowperwood is insane. I will
                        talk to your husband to-morrow. I will send you a trained nurse. Meantime you must be careful of
                        what you say and how you say it. Be perfectly calm. Don't worry. You are perfectly safe
                        here, and you will be there. Mrs. Cowperwood will not trouble you any more. I will see to that.
                        I am so sorry; but I love you. I am near you all the while. You must not let this make any
                        difference. You will not see her any more."
                    Still he knew that it would make a difference.
                    Reassured as to Rita's condition, he went back to Aileen's room to
                        plead with her againto soothe her if he could. He found her up and dressing, a new thought and
                        determination in her mind. Since she had thrown herself on the bed sobbing and groaning, her
                        mood had gradually changed; she began to reason that if she could not dominate him, could not
                        make him properly sorry, she had better leave. It was evident, she thought, that he did not love
                        her any more, seeing that his anxiety to protect Rita had been so great; his brutality in
                        restraining her so marked; and yet she did not want to believe that this was so. He had been so
                        wonderful to her in times past. She had not given up all hope of winning a victory over him, and
                        these other women she loved him too muchbut only a separation would do it. That might bring him
                        to his senses. She would get up, dress, and go down-town to a hotel. He should not see her any
                        more unless he followed her. She was satisfied that she had broken up the liaison with Rita
                        Sohlberg, anyway for the present, and as for Antoinette Nowak, she would attend to her later.
                        Her brain and her heart ached. She was so full of woe and rage, alternating, that she could not
                        cry any more now. She stood before her minor trying with trembling fingers to do over her toilet
                        and adjust a street-costume. Cowperwood was disturbed, nonplussed at this unexpected sight.
                    
                    "Aileen," he said, finally, coming up behind her,
                        "can't you and I talk this thing over peacefully now? You don't want
                        to do anything that you'll be sorry for. I don't want you to. I'm
                        sorry. You don't really believe that I've ceased to love you, do you? I
                        haven't, you know. This thing isn't as bad as it looks. I should think you
                        would have a little more sympathy with me after all we have been through together. You
                        haven't any real evidence of wrong-doing on which to base any such outburst as
                        this."
                    "Oh, haven't I?" she exclaimed, turning from the mirror,
                        where, sorrowfully and bitterly, she was smoothing her red-gold hair. Her cheeks were flushed,
                        her eyes red. Just now she seemed as remarkable to him as she had seemed that first day, years
                        ago, when in a red cape he had seen her, a girl of sixteen, running up the steps of her
                        father's house in Philadelphia. She was so wonderful then. It mellowed his mood toward
                        her.
                    "That's all you know about it, you liar!" she declared.
                        "It's little you know what I know. I haven't had detectives on your
                        trail for weeks for nothing. You sneak! You'd like to smooth around now and find out
                        what I know. Well, I know enough, let me tell you that. You won't fool me any longer
                        with your Rita Sohlbergs and your Antoinette Nowaks and your apartments and your houses of
                        assignation. I know what you are, you brute! And after all your protestations of love for me!
                        Ugh!"
                    She turned fiercely to her task while Cowperwood stared at her, touched by her
                        passion, moved by her force. It was fine to see what a dramatic animal she wasreally worthy of
                        him in many ways.
                    "Aileen, he said, softly hoping still to ingratiate himself by degrees,
                        "please don t be so bitter toward me. Haven't you any understanding of how
                        life worksany sympathy with it? I thought you were more generous, more tender.
                    He eyed her thoughtfully, tenderly, hoping to move her through her love for him.
                    "Sympathy! Sympathy!" She turned on him blazing.
                    "A lot you know about sympathy! I suppose I didn't give you any
                        sympathy when you were in the penitentiary in 
                        Philadelphia, did I? A lot of good it did medidn't it? Sympathy! Bah! To have you come
                        out here to Chicago and take up with a lot of prostitutescheap stenographers and wives of
                        musicians! You have given me a lot of sympathy, haven't you?with that woman lying in
                        the next room to prove it!"
                    She smoothed her lithe waist and shook her shoulders preparatory to putting on a hat
                        and adjusting her wrap. She proposed to go just as she was, and send Fadette back for all her
                        belongings.
                    "Aileen," he pleaded, determined to have his way, "I think
                        you're very foolish. Really I do. There is no occasion for all thisnone in the world.
                        Here you are talking at the top of your voice, scandalizing the whole neighborhood, fighting,
                        leaving the house. It's abominable. I don't want you to it. You love me yet,
                        don't you? You know you do. I know you don't mean all you say. You
                        can't. You really don't believe that I have ceased to love you, do you,
                        Aileen?"
                    "Love!" fired Aileen. "A lot you know about love! A lot
                        you have ever loved anybody, you brute! I know how you love. I thought you loved me once. Humph!
                        I see how you loved mejust as you've loved fifty other women, as you love that snippy
                        little Rita Sohlberg in the next roomthe cat!the dirty little beast!the way you love Antoinette
                        Nowaka cheap stenographer! Bah! You don't know what the word means." And yet
                        her voice trailed off into a kind of sob and her eyes filled with tears, hot, angry, aching.
                        Cowperwood saw them and came over, hoping in some way to take advantage of them. He was truly
                        sorry nowanxious to make her feel tender toward him once more.
                    "Aileen," he pleaded, "please don't be so bitter.
                        You shouldn't be so hard on me. I'm not so bad. Aren't you going to
                        be reasonable?" He put out a smoothing hand, but she jumped away.
                    "Don't you touch me, you brute!" she exclaimed, angrily.
                        "Don't you lay a hand on me. I don't want you to come near me.
                        I'll not live with you. I'll not stay live with your dear, darling Rita on the
                        North Side if you  want to. I don't care. I
                        suppose you've been in the next room comforting herthe beast! I wish I had killed her
                        Oh, God!" She tore at her throat in a violent rage, trying to adjust a button.
                    Cowperwood was literally astonished. Never had he seen such an outburst as this. He
                        had not believed Aileen to be capable of it. He could not help admiring her. Nevertheless he
                        resented the brutality of her assault on Rita and on his own promiscuous tendency, and this
                        feeling vented itself in one last unfortunate remark.
                    "I wouldn't be so hard on mistress if I were you, Aileen,"
                        he ventured, pleadingly. "I should have thought your own experience would
                        have"
                    He paused, for he saw on the instant that he was making a grave mistake. This
                        reference to her past as a mistress was crucial. On the instant she straightened up, and her
                        eyes filled with a great pain. "So that's the way you talk tome, is
                        it?" she asked. "I knew it! I knew it! I knew it would come!"
                    She turned to a tall chest of drawers as high as her breasts, laden with silverware,
                        jewel-boxes, brushes and combs, and, putting her arms down, she laid her head upon them and
                        began to cry. This was the last straw. He was throwing up her lawless girlhood love to her as an
                        offense.
                    "Oh!" she sobbed, and shook in a hopeless, wretched paroxysm.
                    Cowperwood came over quickly. He was distressed, pained. "I didn't
                        mean that, Aileen," he explained. "I didn't mean it in that waynot at
                        all. You rather drew that out of me; but I didn't mean it as a reproach. You were my
                        mistress, but good Lord, I never loved you any the less for thatrather more. You know I did. I
                        want you to believe that; it's true. These other matters haven't been so
                        important to methey really haven't"
                    He looked at her helplessly as she moved away to avoid him; he was distressed,
                        nonplussed, immensely sorry. As he walked to the center of the room again she suddenly suffered
                        a great revulsion of feeling, but only in the direction of more wrath. This was too much.
                    "So this is the way you talk to me," she exclaimed,  "after all I have done for you! You say
                        that to me after I waited for you and cried over you when you were in prison for nearly two
                        years? Your mistress! That's my reward, is it? Oh!"
                    Suddenly she observed her jewel-case, and, resenting all the gifts he had given her
                        in Philadelphia, in Paris, in Rome, here in Chicago, she suddenly threw open the lid and,
                        grabbing the contents by handfuls? began to toss them toward himto actually throw them in his
                        face. Out they came, handfuls of gauds that he had given her in real affection: a jade necklace
                        and bracelet of pale apple-green set in spun gold, with clasps of white ivory; a necklace of
                        pearls, assorted as to size and matched in color, that shone with a tinted, pearly flame in the
                        evening light; a handful of rings and brooches, diamonds, rubies, opals, amethysts; a dog-collar
                        of emeralds, and a diamond hair-ornament. She flung them at him excitedly, strewing the floor,
                        striking him on the neck, the face, the hands. "Take that! and that! and that! There
                        they are! I don't want anything more of yours. I don't want anything more to
                        do with you. I don't want anything that belongs to you. Thank God, I have money enough
                        of my own to live on! I hate youI despise you;I never want to see you any more. Oh"
                        And, trying to think of something more, but failing! she dashed swiftly down the hall and down
                        the stairs, while he stood for just one moment overwhelmed. Then he hurried after.
                    "Aileen!" he called. "Aileen, come back here!
                        Don't go, Aileen!" But she only hurried faster; she opened and closed the
                        door, and actually ran out in the dark, her eyes wet, her heart bursting. So this was the end of
                        that youthful dream that had begun so beautifully. She was no better than the othersjust one of
                        his mistresses. To have her past thrown up to her as a defense for the others! To be told that
                        she was no better than they! This was the last straw. She choked and sobbed as she walked,
                        vowing never to return, never to see him any more. But as she did so Cowperwood came running
                        after, determined for once, as lawless as he was, that this should not be the end of it all. She
                        had loved him, he reflected. She had laid every gift of passion and affection on the altar of
                             her love. It wasn't fair, really. She
                        must be made to stay. He caught up at last, reaching her under the dark of the November trees.
                    "Aileen," he said, laying hold of her and putting his arms around
                        her waist. "Aileen, dearest, this is plain madness. It is insanity. You're not
                        in your right mind. Don't go! Don't leave me! I love you! Don't you
                        know I do? Can't you really see that? Don't run away like this, and
                        don't cry. I do love you, and you know it. I always shall. Come back Kiss me?
                        I'll do better. Really I will. Give me another chance. Wait and see. Come
                        nowwon't you? That's my girl, my Aileen. Do come. Please!"
                    She pulled on, but he held her, smoothing her arms, her neck, her face.
                    "Aileen!" he entreated.
                    She tugged so that he was finally compelled to work her about into his arms; then,
                        sobbing, she stood there agonized but happy once more, in a way.
                    "But I don't want to," she protested. "You
                        don't love me any more. Let me go."
                    But he kept hold of her, urging, and finally she said, her head upon his shoulder as
                        of old, "Don't make me come back to-night. I don't want to. I
                        can't. Let me go down-town. I'll come back later, maybe."
                    "Then I'll go with you," he said, endearingly.
                        "It isn't right. There are a lot of things I should be doing to stop this
                        scandal, but I'll go."
                    And together they sought a street-car.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    "MAN AND SUPERMAN"
                    IT is a sad commentary on all save the most chemic unions those dark red flowers of
                        romance that bloom most often only for a tragic endthat they cannot endure the storms of
                        disaster that are wont to overtake them. A woman like Rita Sohlberg, with a seemingly urgent
                        feeling for Cowperwood, was yet not so charmed by him but that this shock to her pride was a
                        marked sedative. The crushing weight of such an exposure as this, the Homeric laughter inherent,
                        if not indicated in the faulty planning, the failure to take into account beforehand all the
                        possibilities which might lead to such a disaster, was too much for her to endure. She was stung
                        almost to desperation, maddened, at the thought of the gay, idle way in which she had walked
                        into Mrs. Cowperwood's clutches and been made into a spectacle and a laughing-stock by
                        her. What a brute she waswhat a demon! Her own physical weakness under the circumstances was no
                        grief to herrather a salve to her superior disposition; but just the same she had been badly
                        beaten, her beauty turned into a ragamuffin show, and that was enough. This evenings in the Lake
                        Shore Sanitarium, where she had been taken, she had but one thoughtto get away when it should
                        all be over and rest her wearied brain. She did not want to see Sohlberg any more; she did not
                        want to see Cowperwood any more. Already Harold, suspicious and determined to get at the truth,
                        was beginning to question her as to the strangeness of Aileen's attackher probable
                        reason. When Cowperwood was announced, Sohlberg's manner modified somewhat, for
                        whatever his suspicions were, he was not prepared to quarrel with this singular man as yet.
                    "I am so sorry about this unfortunate business," said Cowperwood,
                             coming in with brisk assurance. "I
                        never knew my wife to become so strangely unbalanced before. It was most fortunate that I
                        arrived when I did. I certainly owe you both every amend that can be made. I sincerely hope,
                        Mrs. Sohlberg, that you are not seriously injured. If there is anything I can possibly
                        doanything either of you can suggest"he looked around solicitously at
                        Sohlberg"I shall only be too glad to do it. How would it do for you to take Mrs.
                        Sohlberg away for a little while for a rest? I shall so gladly pay all expenses in connection
                        with her recovery."
                    Sohlberg, brooding and heavy, remained unresponsive, smoldering; Rita, cheered by
                        Cowperwood's presence, but not wholly relieved by any means, was questioning and
                        disturbed. She was afraid there was to be a terrific scene between them. She declared she was
                        better and would be all rightthat she did not need to go away, but that she preferred to be
                        alone.
                    "It's very strange," said Sohlberg, sullenly, after a
                        little while. "I daunt onderstand it! I daunt onderstand it at all. Why should she do
                        soach a thing? Why should she say soach things? Here we have been the best of friends opp to
                        now. Then suddenly she attacks my wife and sais all these strange things."
                    "But I have assured you, my dear Mr. Sohlberg, that my wife was not in her
                        right mind. She has been subject to spells of this kind in the past, though never to anything so
                        violent as this to-night. Already she has recovered her normal state, and she does not remember.
                        But, perhaps, if we are going to discuss things now we had better go out in the hall. Your wife
                        will need all the rest she can get."
                    Once outside, Cowperwood continued with brilliant assurance: "Now, my dear
                        Sohlberg, what is it I can say? What is it you wish me to do? My wife has made a lot of
                        groundless charges, to say nothing of injuring your wife most seriously and shamefully. I cannot
                        tell you, as I have said, how sorry I am. I assure you Mrs. Cowperwood is suffering from a gross
                        illusion. There is absolutely nothing to do, nothing to say, so fat as I can see, but to let the
                        whole matter drop. Don't you agree with me?"
                    Harold was twisting mentally in the coils of a trying  situation. His own position, as he knew, was not formidable. Rita had
                        reproached him over and over for infidelity. He began to swell and bluster at once.
                    "That is all very well for you to say, Mr. Cowperwood," he
                        commented, defiantly, "but how about me? Where do I come in? I daunt know what to
                        theenk yet. It ees very strange. Supposing what your wife sais was true? Supposing my wife has
                        been going around weeth some one? That ees what I want to find
                        out. Eef she has! Eef eet is what I theenk it ees I shallI shallI daunt know what I shall do. I
                        am a very violent man."
                    Cowperwood almost smiled, concerned as he was over avoiding publicity; he had no fear
                        of Sohlberg physically.
                    "See here," he exclaimed, suddenly, looking sharply at the musician
                        and deciding to take the bull by the horns, "you are in quite as delicate a situation
                        as I am, if you only stop to think. This affair, if it gets out, will involve not only me and
                        Mrs. Cowperwood, but yourself and your wife, and if I am not mistaken, I think your own affairs
                        are not in any too good shape. You cannot blacken your wife without blackening yourselfthat is
                        inevitable. None of us is exactly perfect. For myself I shall be compelled to prove insanity,
                        and I can do this easily. If there is anything in your past which is not precisely what it
                        should be it could not long be kept a secret. If you are willing to let the matter drop I will
                        make handsome provision for you both; if, instead, you choose to make trouble, to force this
                        matter into the daylight, I shall leave no stone unturned to protect myself, to put as good a
                        face on this matter as I can."
                    "What!" exclaimed Sohlberg. "You threaten me? You try to
                        frighten me after your wife charges that you have been running around weeth my wife? You talk
                        about my past! I like that. Haw! We shall see about dis! What is it you knaw about me?"
                    "Well, Mr. Sohlberg," rejoined Cowperwood, calmly, "I
                        know, for instance, that for a long while your wife has not loved you, that you have been living
                        on her as any pensioner might, that you have been running around with as many as six or seven
                        women in as many years or less. For months I have been acting as your wife's financial
                        adviser,  and in that time, with the aid of
                        detectives, I have learned of Anna Stelmak, Jessie Laska, Bertha Reese, Georgia Du Coindo I need
                        to say any more? As a matter of fact, I have a number of your letters in my
                        possession."
                    "Saw that ees it!" exclaimed Sohlberg, while Cowperwood eyed him
                        fixedly. "You have been running around weeth my wife? Eet ees true, then. A fine
                        situation! And you come here now weeth these threats, these lies to booldozeme. Haw! We weel see
                        about them. We weel see what I can do. Wait teel I can consult a lawyer first. Then we weel
                        see!"
                    Cowperwood surveyed him coldly, angrily. "What an ass!" he thought.
                    "See here," he said, urging Sohlberg, for privacy's sake,
                        to come down into the lower hall, and then into the street before the sanitarium, where two
                        gas-lamps were fluttering fitfully in the dark and wind, "I see very plainly that you
                        are bent on making trouble. It is not enough that I have assured you that there is nothing in
                        thisthat I have given you my word. You insist on going further. Very well, then. Supposing for
                        argument's sake that Mrs. Cowperwood was not insane; that every word she said was true;
                        that I had been misconducting myself with your wife? What of it? What will you do?"
                    "He looked at Sohlberg smoothly, ironically, while the latter flared up.
                    "Haw!" he shouted, melodramatically. "Why, I would keel
                        you, that's what I would do. I would keel her. I weel make a terrible scene. Just let
                        me knaw that this is so, and then see!"
                    "Exactly," replied Cowperwood, grimly. "I thought so. I
                        believe you. For that reason I have come prepared to serve you in just the way you
                        wish." He reached in his coat and took out two small revolvers, which he had taken T
                        from a drawer at home for this very purpose. They gleamed in the dark. "Do you see
                        these?" he continued. "I am going to save you the trouble of further
                        investigation, Mr. Sohlberg. Every word that Mrs. Cowperwood said tonightand I am saying this
                        with a full understanding of what this means to you and to meis true. She is not more insane
                        than I am. Your wife has been living in an apartment 
                        with me on the North Side for months, though you cannot prove that. She does not love you, but
                        me. Now if you want to kill me here is a gun." He extended his hand. "Take
                        your choice. If I am to die you might as well die with me."
                    He said it so coolly, so firmly, that Sohlberg, who was an innate coward, and who had
                        no more desire to die than any other healthy animal, paled. The look of cold steel was too much.
                        The hand that pressed them on him was hard and firm. He took hold of one, but his fingers
                        trembled. The steely, metallic voice in his ear was undermining the little courage that he had.
                        Cowperwood by now had taken on the proportions of a dangerous manthe lineaments of a demon. He
                        turned away mortally terrified.
                    "My God!" he exclaimed, shaking like a leaf. "You want to
                        keel me, do you? I weel not have anything to do with you! I weel not talk to you! I weel see my
                        lawyer. I weel talk to my wife first."
                    Oh, no you won't, replied Cowperwood, intercepting him as he turned to go
                        and seizing him firmly by the arm. "I am not going to have you do anything of the sort.
                        I am not going to kill you if you are not going to kill me; but I am going to make you listen to
                        reason for once. Now here is what else I have to say, and then I am through. I am not unfriendly
                        to you. I want to do you a good turn, little as I care for you. To begin with, there is nothing
                        in those charges my wife made, not a thing. I merely said what I did just now to see if you were
                        in earnest. You do not love your wife any more. She doesn't love you. You are no good
                        to her. Now, I have a very friendly proposition to make to you. If you want to leave Chicago and
                        stay away three years or more, I will see that you are paid five thousand dollars every year on
                        January firston the nailfive thousand dollars! Do you hear? Or you can stay here in Chicago and
                        hold your tongue and I will make it three thousandmonthly or yearly, just as you please. Butand
                        this is what I want you to rememberif you don t get out of town or hold your tongue, if you make
                        one single rash move against me, I will kill you, and I will kill you on sight. Now, I want you
                        to go away from here and behave yourself. Leave your wife alone. Come and see  me in a day or twothe money is ready for you any
                        time."
                    He paused while Sohlberg staredhis eyes round and glassy. This was the most
                        astonishing experience of his life, This man was either devil or prince, or both. "Good
                        God!" he thought. "He will do that, too. He will really kill me. Then the
                        astounding alternativefive thousand dollars a yearcame to his mind. Well, why not? His silence
                        gave consent.
                    "If I were you I wouldn't go up-stairs again to-night,"
                        continued Cowperwood, sternly. "Don't disturb her. She needs rest. Go on
                        down-town and come and see me to-morrowor if you want to go back I will go with you. I want to
                        say to Mrs. Sohlberg what I have said to you. But remember what I've told
                        you."
                    "Nau, thank you," replied Sohlberg, feebly. "I will go
                        down-town. Good night." And he hurried away.
                    "I'm sorry," said Cowperwood to himself, defensively.
                        "It is too bad, but it was the only way."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    A MATTER OF TUNNELS
                    THE question of Sohlberg adjusted thus simply, if brutally, Cowperwood turned his
                        attention to Mrs. Sohlberg. But there was nothing much to be done. He explained that he had now
                        completely subdued Aileen and Sohlberg, that the latter would make no more trouble, that he was
                        going to pension him, that Aileen would remain permanently quiescent. He expressed the greatest
                        solicitude for her, but Rita was now sickened of this tangle. She had loved him, as she thought,
                        but through the rage of Aileen she saw him in a different light, and she wanted to get away. His
                        money, plentiful as it was, did not mean as much to her as it might have meant to some women; it
                        simply spelled luxuries, without which she could exist if she must. His charm for her had,
                        perhaps, consisted mostly in the atmosphere of flawless security, which seemed to surround hima
                        glittering bubble of romance. That, by one fell attack, was now burst. [He was seen to be quite
                        as other men, subject to the same storms, the same danger of shipwreck. Only he was a better
                        sailor than most.] She recuperated gradually; left for home; left for Europe; details too long
                        to be narrated. Sohlberg, after much meditating and fuming, finally accepted the offer of
                        Cowperwood and returned to Denmark. Aileen, after a few days of quarreling, in which he agreed
                        to dispense with Antoinette Nowak, returned home.
                    Cowperwood was in no wise pleased by this rough d$eAnouement. Aileen had not raised
                        her own attractions in his estimation, and yet, strange to relate, he was not unsympathetic with
                        her. He had no desire to desert her as yet, though for some time he had been growing in the
                        feeling  that Rita would have been a much better type
                        of wife for him. But what he could not have, he could not have. He turned his attention with
                        renewed force to his business; but it was with many a backward glance at those radiant hours
                        when, with Rita in his presence or enfolded by his arms, he had seen life from a new and poetic
                        angle. She was so charming, so na$iUvebut what could he do?
                    For several years thereafter Cowperwood was busy following the Chicago street-railway
                        situation with increasing interest. He knew it was useless to brood over Rita Sohlbergshe would
                        not returnand yet he could not help it; but he could work hard, and that was something. His
                        natural aptitude and affection for street-railway work had long since been demonstrated, and it
                        was now making him restless. One might have said of him quite truly that the tinkle of car-bells
                        and the plop of plodding horses' feet was in his blood. He surveyed these extending
                        lines, with their jingling cars, as he went about the city, with an almost hungry eye. Chicago
                        was growing fast, and these little horse-cars on certain streets were crowded night and
                        morningfairly bulging with people at the rush-hours. If he could only secure an octopus-grip on
                        one or all of them; if he could combine and control them all! What a fortune! That, if nothing
                        else, might salve him for some of his woesa tremendous fortunenothing less. He forever busied
                        himself with various aspects of the scene quite as a poet might have concerned himself with
                        rocks and rills. To own these street-railways! To own these street-railways! So rang the song of
                        his mind.
                    Like the gas situation, the Chicago street-railway situation was divided into three
                        partsthree companies representing and corresponding with the three different sides or divisions
                        of the city. The Chicago City Railway Company, occupying the South Side and extending as far
                        south as Thirty-ninth Street, had been organized in 1859, and represented in itself a mine of
                        wealth. Already it controlled some seventy miles of track, and was annually being added to on
                        Indiana Avenue, on Wabash Avenue, on State Street, and on Archer Avenue. It owned over one
                        hundred and fifty cars of the old-fashioned, straw-strewn,  no-stove type, and over one thousand horses; it employed one hundred and
                        seventy conductors, one hundred and sixty drivers, a hundred stablemen, and blacksmiths,
                        harness-makers, and repaires in interesting numbers. Its snow-plows were busy on the street in
                        winter, its sprinkling-cars in summer. Cowperwood calculated its shares, bonds, rolling-stock,
                        and other physical properties as totaling in the vicinity of over two million dollars. The
                        trouble with this company was that its outstanding stock was principally controlled by Norman
                        Schryhart, who was now decidedly inimical to Cowperwood, or anything he might wish to do, and by
                        Anson Merrill, who had never manifested any signs of friendship. He did not see how he was to
                        get control of this property. Its shares were selling around two hundred and fifty dollars.
                    The North Chicago City Railway was a corporation which had been organized at the same
                        time as the South Side company, but by a different group of men. Its management was old,
                        indifferent, and incompetent, its equipment about the same. The Chicago West Division Railway
                        had originally been owned by the Chicago City or South Side Railway, but was now a separate
                        corporation. It was not yet so profitable as the other divisions of the city, but all sections
                        of the city were growing. The horse-bell was heard everywhere tinkling gaily.
                    Standing on the outside of this scene, contemplating its promise, Cowperwood much
                        more than any one else connected financially with the future of these railways at this time was
                        impressed with their enormous possibilitiestheir enormous future if Chicago continued to grow,
                        and was concerned with the various factors which might further or impede their progress.
                    Not long before he had discovered that one of the chief handicaps to street-railway
                        development, on the North and West Sides, lay in the congestion of traffic W the bridges
                        spanning the Chicago River. Between the street ends that abutted on it and connected the two
                        sides of the city ran this amazing streamdirty, odorous, picuturesque, compact of a heavy,
                        delightful, constantly crowding and moving boat traffic, which kept the various bridges
                        momentarily turning, and tied up the street traffic on either side of the  river until it seemed at times as though the tangle of teams and
                        boats would never any more be straightened out. It was lovely, human, natural, Dickensesquea fit
                        subject for a Daumier, a Turner, or a Whistler. The idlest of bridge-tenders judged for himself
                        when the boats and when the teams should be made to wait, and how long, while in addition to the
                        regular pedestrians a group of idlers stood at gaze fascinated by the crowd of masts, the crush
                        of wagons, and the picturesque tugs in the foreground below. Cowperwood, as he sat in his light
                        runabout, annoyed by a delay, or dashed swiftly forward to get over before a bridge turned, had
                        long since noted that the street-car service in the North and West Sides was badly hampered. The
                        unbroken South Side, unthreaded by a river, had no such problem, and was growing rapidly.
                    Because of this he was naturally interested to observe one day, in the course of his
                        peregrinations, that there existed in two places under the Chicago Riverin the first place at La
                        Salle Street, running north and south, and in the second at Washington Street, running east and
                        westtwo now soggy and rat-infested tunnels which were never used by anybodydark, dank, dripping
                        affairs only vaguely lighted with oil-lamp, and oozing with water. Upon investigation he learned
                        that they had been built years before to accommodate this same tide of wagon traffic, which now
                        congested at the bridges, and which even then had been rapidly rising. Being forced to pay a
                        toll in time to which a slight toll in cash, exacted for the privilege of using a tunnel, had
                        seemed to the investors and public infinitely to be preferred, this traffic had been offered
                        this opportunity of avoiding the delay. However, like many another handsome commercial scheme on
                        paper or bubbling in the human brain, the plan did not work exactly. These tunnels might have
                        proved profitable if they had been properly built with long, low-per-cent. grades, wide
                        roadways, and a sufficiency of light and air; but, as a matter of fact, they had not been
                        judiciously adapted to public convenience. Norman Schryhart' s father had been an
                        investor in these tunnels, and Anson Merrill. When they had proved unprofitable, after a long
                        period of pointless manipulationcost, one million dollarsthey had been sold to the city for  exactly that sum each, it being poetically deemed
                        that a growing city could better afford to lose so disturbing an amount than any of its humble,
                        ambitious, and respectable citizens. That was a little affair by which members of council had
                        profited years before; but that also is another story.
                    After discovering these tunnels Cowperwood walked through them several timesfor
                        though they were now boarded up, there was still an uninterrupted footpathand wondered why they
                        could not be utilized. It seemed to him that if the street-car traffic were heavy enough,
                        profitable enough, and these tunnels, for a reasonable sum, could be made into a lower grade,
                        one of the problems which now hampered the growth of the North and West Sides would be obviated.
                        But how? He did not own the tunnels. He did not own the street-railways. The cost of leasing and
                        rebuilding the tunnels would be enormous. Helpers and horses and extra drivers on any grade,
                        however slight, would have to be used, and that meant an extra expense. With street-car horses
                        as the only means of traction, and with the long, expensive grades, he was not so sure that this
                        venture would be a profitable one.
                    However, in the fall of 1880, or a little earlier (when he was still very much
                        entangled with the preliminary sex affairs that led eventually to Rita Sohlberg), he became a
                        ware of a new system of traction relating to street-cars which, together with the arrival of the
                        arc-light, the telephone, and other inventions, seemed destined to change the character of city
                        life entirely.
                    Recently in San Francisco, where the presence of hills made the movement of crowded
                        street-railway cars exceedingly difficult, a new type of traction had been introducedthat of the
                            cable, which was nothing more than a traveling rope of wire
                        running over guttered wheels in a conduit, and driven by immense engines, conveniently located
                        in adjacent stations or "power-houses." The cars earned a readily manipulated
                        "grip-lever," or steel hand, which reached down through a slot into a conduit
                        and "gripped" the moving cable. This invention solved the problem of hauling
                        heavily laden street-cars up and down steep grades. About the same time he also heard,  in a roundabout way, that the Chicago City Railway,
                        of which Schryhart and Merrill were the principal owners, was about to introduce this mode or
                        traction on its linesto cable State Street, and attach the cars
                        of other lines running farther out into unprofitable districts as "trailers."
                        At once the solution of the North and West Side problems flashed upon himcables.
                    Outside of the bridge crush and the tunnels above mentioned, there was one other
                        special condition which had been for some time past attracting Cowperwood's attention.
                        This was the waning energy of the North Chicago City Railway Companythe lack of foresight on the
                        part of its directors which prevented them from perceiving the proper solution of their
                        difficulties. The road was in a rather unsatisfactory state financiallyreally open to a coup of
                        some sort. In the beginning it had been considered unprofitable, so thinly populated was the
                        territory they served, and so short the distance from the business heart. Later, however, as the
                        territory filled up, they did better; only then the long waits at the bridges occurred. The
                        management, feeling that the lines were likely to be poorly patronized, had put down poor,
                        little, light-weight rails, and run slimpsy cars which were as cold as ice in winter and as hot
                        as stove-ovens in Summer. No attempt had been made to extend the down-town terminus of the
                        several lines into the business centerthey stopped just over the river which bordered it at the
                        north. (On the South Side Mr. Schryhart had done much better for his patrons. He had already
                        installed a loop for his cable about Merrill's store.) As on the West Side, straw was
                        strewn in the bottom of all the cars in winter to keep the feet of the passengers warm, and but
                        few Open cars were used in summer. The directors were averse to introducing them because of the
                        expense. So they had gone on and on, adding lines only where they were sure they would make a
                        good profit from the start, putting down the same style of cheap rail that had been used m the
                        beginning, and employing the same antique type of car which rattled and trembled as it ran,
                        until the patrons were enraged to the point of anarchy. Only recently, because of various suits
                        and complaints inaugurated, the company had been greatly annoyed, but  they scarcely knew what to do, how to meet the onslaught. Though
                        there was here and there a man of sensesuch as Terrence Mulgannon, the general superintendent;
                        Edwin Kaffrath, a director; William Johnson, the constructing engineer of the companyyet such
                        other men as Onias C. Skinner, the president, and Walter Parker, the vice-president, were
                        reactionaries of an elderly character, conservative meditative, stingy, and, worst of all,
                        fearful or without courage for great adventure. It is a sad commentary that age almost
                        invariably takes away the incentive to new achievement and makes "Let well enough
                        alone" the most appealing motto.
                    Mindful of this, Cowperwood, with a now splendid scheme in his mind, one day invited
                        John J. McKenty over to his house to dinner on a social pretext. When the latter, accompanied by
                        his wife, had arrived, and Aileen had smiled on them both sweetly, and was doing her best to be
                        nice to Mrs. McKenty, Cowperwood remarked:
                    "McKenty, do you know anything about these two tunnels that the city owns
                        under the river at Washington and La Salle streets?"
                    "I know that the city took them over when it didn't need them, and
                        that they're no good for anything. That was before my time, though," explained
                        McKenty, cautiously. "I think the city paid a million for them. Why?"
                    "Oh, nothing much," replied Cowperwood, evading the matter for the
                        present. "I was wondering whether they were in such condition that they
                        couldn't be used for anything. I see occasional references in the papers to their
                        uselessness."
                    "They're in pretty bad shape, I'm afraid,"
                        replied McKenty. "I haven't been through either of them in years and years.
                        The idea was originally to let the wagons go through them and break up the crowding at the
                        bridges. But it didn't work. They made the grade too steep and the tolls too high, and
                        so the drivers preferred to wait for the bridges. They were pretty hard on horses. I can testify
                        to that myself. I've driven a wagon-load through them more than once. The city should
                        never have taken them over at all by rights. It was a deal. I don't know  who all was in it. Carmody was mayor then, and
                        Aldrich was in charge of public works."
                    He relapsed into silence, and Cowperwood allowed the matter of the tunnels to rest
                        until after dinner when they had adjourned to the library. There he placed a friendly hand on
                        McKenty's arm, an act of familiarity which the politician rather liked.
                    "You felt pretty well satisfied with the way that gas business came out last
                        year, didn't you?" he inquired.
                    "I did," replied McKenty, warmly. "Never more so. I told
                        you that at the time." The Irishman liked Cowperwood, and was grateful for the swift
                        manner in which he had been made richer by the sum of several hundred thousand dollars.
                    "Well, now, McKenty," continued Cowperwood, abruptly, and with a
                        seeming lack of connection, "has it ever occurred to you that things are shaping up for
                        a big change in the street-railway situation here? I can see it coming. There's going
                        to be a new motor power introduced on the South Side within a year or two. You've heard
                        of it?"
                    "I read something of it," replied McKenty, surprised and a little
                        questioning. He took a cigar and prepared to listen. Cowperwood, never smoking, drew up a chair.
                    "Well, I'll tell you what that means," he explained.
                        "It means that eventually every mile of street-railway track in this cityto say nothing
                        of all the additional miles that will be built before this change takes placewill have to be
                        done over on an entirely new basis. I mean this cable-conduit system. These old companies that
                        are hobbling along now with an old equipment will have to make the change. They'll have
                        to spend millions and millions before they can bring their equipment up to date. If
                        you've paid any attention to the matter you must have seen what a condition these North
                        and West Side lines are in."
                    "It's pretty bad; I know that," commented McKenty.
                    "Just so," replied Cowperwood, emphatically. "Well, now,
                        if I know anything about these old managements from studying them, they're going to
                        have a hard time bringing themselves to do this. Two to three million are two to three million,
                        and it isn't going to be an easy matter  for
                        them to raise the moneynot as easy, perhaps, as it would be for some of the rest of us,
                        supposing we wanted to go into the street-railway business."
                    "Yes, supposing," replied McKenty, jovially. "But how are
                        you to get in it? There's no stock for sale that I know of."
                    "Just the same," said Cowperwood, "we can if we want to,
                        and I'II show you how. But at present there's just one thing in particular
                        I'd like you to do for me. I want to know if there is any way that we can get control
                        of either of those two old tunnels that I was talking to you about a little while ago.
                        I'like both if I might. Do you suppose that is possible?"
                    "Why, yes," replied McKenty, wondering; "but what have
                        they got to do with it? They're not worth anything. Some of the boys were talking about
                        filling them in some time agoblowing them up. The police think crooks hide in them."
                    "Just the same, don't let any one touch themdon't lease
                        them or anything," replied Cowperwood, forcefully. "I'll tell you
                        frankly what I want to do. I want to get control, just as soon as possible, of all the
                        street-railway lines I can on the North and West Sidesnew or old franchises. Then
                        you'll see where the tunnels come in."
                    He paused to see whether McKenty caught the point of all he meant, but the latter
                        failed.
                    "You don't want much, do you?" he said, cheerfully.
                        "But I don't see how you can use the tunnels. However, that's no
                        reason why I shouldn't take care of them for you, if you think that's
                        important."
                    "It's this way," said Cowperwood, thoughtfully.
                        "I'll make you a preferred partner in all the ventures that I control if you
                        do as I suggest. The street-railways, as they stand now, will have to be taken up lock, stock,
                        and barrel, and thrown into the scrap heap within eight or nine years at the latest. You see
                        what the south side company is beginning to do now. When it comes to the West and North Side
                        companies they won't find it so easy. They aren't earning as much as the South
                        Side, and besides they have those bridges to cross. That means a severe inconvenience to a cable
                        line. In the first place, the bridges will  have to
                        be rebuilt to stand the extra weight and strain. Now the question arises at onceat whose
                        expense? The city's?"
                    "That depends on who's asking for it," replied Mr.
                        McKenty, amiably.
                    "Quite so," assented Cowperwood. "In the next place, this
                        river traffic is becoming impossible from the point of view of a decent street-car service.
                        There are waits now of from eight to fifteen minutes while these tows and vessels get through.
                        Chicago has five hundred thousand population to-day. How much will it have in 1890? In 1900? How
                        will it be when it has eight hundred thousand or a million?"
                    "You're quite right," interpolated McKenty. "It
                        will be pretty bad."
                    "Exactly. But what is worse, the cable lines will carry trailers, or single
                        cars, from feeder lines. There won't be single cars waiting at these drawsthere will be
                        trains, crowded trains. It won't be advisable to delay a cable-train from eight to
                        fifteen minutes while boats are making their way through a draw. The public won't stand
                        for that very long, will it, do you think?"
                    "Not without making a row, probably," replied McKenty.
                    "Well, that means what, then?" asked Cowperwood. "Is the
                        traffic going to get any lighter? Is the river going to dry up?"
                    Mr. McKenty stared. Suddenly his face lighted. "Oh, I see," he
                        said, shrewdly. "It's those tunnels you're thinking about. Are they
                        in any shape to be used?"
                    "They can be made over cheaper than new ones can be built."
                    "True for you," replied McKenty, "and if they're
                        in any sort of repair they'd be just what you'd want." He was
                        emphatic, almost triumphant. "They belong to the city. They cost pretty near a million
                        apiece, those things."
                    "I know it," said Cowperwood. "Now, do you see what
                        I'm driving at?"
                    "Do I see!" smiled McKenty. "That's a real idea
                        you have, Cowperwood. I take off my hat to you. Say what you want."
                    "Well, then, in the first place," replied Cowperwood,  genially, "it is agreed that the city
                        won't part with those two tunnels under any circumstances until we can see what can be
                        done about this other matter?"
                    "It will not."
                    "In the next place, it is understood, is it, that you won't make it
                        any easier than you can possibly help for the North and West Side companies to get ordinances
                        extending their lines, or anything else, from now on? I shall want to introduce some franchises
                        for feeders and outlying lines myself."
                    "Bring in your ordinances," replied McKenty, "and
                        I'll do whatever you say. I've worked with you before. I know that you keep
                        your word."
                    "Thanks," said Cowperwood, warmly. "I know the value of
                        keeping it. In the mean while I'll go ahead and see what can be done about the other
                        matter. I don't know just now many men I will need to let in on this, or just what form
                        the organization will take. But you may depend upon it that your interests will be properly
                        taken care of, and that whatever is done will be done with your full knowledge and
                        consent."
                    "All very good," answered McKenty, thinking of the new field of
                        activity before them. A combination between himself and Cowperwood in a matter like this must
                        prove very beneficial to both. And he was satisfied, because of their previous relations, that
                        his own interests would not be neglected.
                    "Shall we go and see if we can find the ladies?" asked Cowperwood,
                        jauntily, laying hold of the politician's arm.
                    "To be sure," assented McKenty, gaily. "It's a
                        fine house you have herebeautiful. And your wife is as pretty a woman as I ever saw, if
                        you'll pardon the familiarity."
                    "I have always thought she was rather attractive myself," replied
                        Cowperwood, innocently.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    STREET-RAILWAYS AT LAST
                    AMONG the directors of the North Chicago City company there was one man, Edwin L.
                        Kaffrath, who was young and of a forward-looking temperament. His father, a former heavy
                        stockholder of this company, had recently died and left all his holdings and practically his
                        director-ship to his only son. Young Kaffrath was by no means a practical street-railway man,
                        though he fancied he could do very well at it if given a chance. He was the holder of nearly
                        eight hundred of the five thousand shares of stock; but the rest of it was so divided that he
                        could only exercise a minor influence. Nevertheless, from the day of his entrance into the
                        companywhich was months before Cowperwood began seriously to think over the situationhe had been
                        strong for improvementsextensions, more franchises, better cars, better horses, stoves in the
                        cars in winter, and the like, all of which suggestions sounded to his fellow-directors like mere
                        manifestations of the reckless impetuosity of youth, and were almost uniformly opposed.
                    "What's the matter with them cars?" asked Albert Thorsen,
                        one of the elder directors, at one of the meetings at which Kaffrath was present and offering
                        his usual protest. "I don't see anything the matter with 'em. I ride
                        in 'em."
                    Thorsen was a heavy, dusty, tobacco-bestrewn individual of sixty-six, who was a
                        little dull but genial. He was in the paint business, and always wore a very light steel-gray
                        suit much crinkled in the seat and arms.
                    "Perhaps that's what's the matter with them,
                        Albert," chirped up Solon Kaempfaert, one of his cronies on the board.
                    
                    The sally drew a laugh.
                    "Oh, I don't know. I see the rest of you on board often
                        enough."
                    "Why, I tell you what's the matter with them," replied
                        Kaffrath. "They're dirty, and they're flimsy, and the windows rattle
                        so you can't hear yourself think. The track is no good, and the filthy straw we keep in
                        them in winter is enough to make a person sick. We don't keep the track in good repair.
                        I don't wonder people complain. I'd com-plain myself."
                    "Oh, I don't think things are as bad as all that," put in
                        Onias C. Skinner, the president, who had a face which with its very short side-whiskers was as
                        bland as a Chinese god. He was sixty-eight years of age. "They're not the best
                        cars in the world, but they're good cars. They need painting and varnishing pretty
                        badly, some of them, but outside of that there's many a good year's wear in
                        them yet. I'd be very glad if we could put in new rolling-stock, but the item of
                        expense will be considerable. It's these extensions that we have to keep building and
                        the long hauls for five cents which eat up the profits." The so-called "long
                        hauls" were only two or three miles at the outside, but they seemed long to Mr.
                        Skinner.
                    "Well, look at the South Side," persisted Kaffrath. "I
                        don't know what you people are thinking of. Here's a cable system introduced
                        in Philadelphia. There's another in San Francisco. Some one has invented a car, as I
                        understand it, that's going to run by electricity, and here we are running carsbarns, I
                        call themwith straw in them. Good Lord, I should think it was about time that some of us took a
                        tumble to ourselves!"
                    "Oh, I don t know," commented Mr. Skinner. "It seems to me
                        we have done pretty well by the North Side. We have done a good deal."
                    Directors Solon Kaempfaert, Albert Thorsen, Isaac White, Anthony Ewer, Arnold C.
                        Benjamin, and Otto Matjes, being solemn gentlemen all, merely sat and stared.
                    The vigorous Kaffrath was not to be so easily repressed, however. He repeated his
                        complaints on other occasions. The fact that there was also considerable complaint in the
                        newspapers from time to time in regard to this same North  Side service pleased him in away. Perhaps this would be the Proverbial fire
                        under the terrapin Which would cause it to move long.
                    By this time, owing to Cowperwood's understanding with McKenty, all
                        possibility of the North Side company's securing additional franchises for unoccupied
                        streets, or even the use of the La Salle Street tunnel, had ended. Kaffrath did not know this.
                        Neither did the directors or officers of the company, but it was true. In addition, McKenty,
                        through the aldermen, who were at his beck and call on the North Side, was beginning to stir up
                        additional murmurs and complaints in order to discredit the present management. There was a
                        great to-do in council over a motion on the part of somebody to compel the North Side company to
                        throw out its old cars and lay better and heavier tracks. Curiously, this did not apply so much
                        to the West and South Sides, which were in the same condition. The rank and file of the city,
                        ignorant of the tricks which were constantly being employed in politics to effect one end or
                        another, were greatly cheered by this so-called "public uprising." They little
                        knew the pawns they were in the game, or how little sincerity constituted the primal impulse.
                    Quite by accident, apparently, one day Addison, thinking of the different men in the
                        North Side company who might be of service to Cowperwood, and having finally picked young
                        Kaffrath as the ideal agent, introduced himself to the latter at the Union League.
                    "That's a pretty heavy load of expense that's staring you
                        North and West Side street-railway people in the face," he took occasion to observe.
                    "How's that?" asked Kaffrath, curiously, anxious to hear
                        anything which concerned the development of the business.
                    "Well, unless I'm greatly mistaken, you, all of you, are going to
                        be put to the expense of doing over your lines completely in a very little whileso I
                        hearintroducing this new motor or cable system that they are getting on the South
                        Side." Addison wanted to convey the impression that the city council or public
                        sentiment or something was going to force the North Chicago company to indulge in this great and
                        expensive series of improvements.
                    
                    Kaffrath pricked up his ears. What was the city council going to do? He wanted to
                        know all about it. They discussed the whole situationthe nature of the cable-conduits, the cost
                        of the power-houses, the need of new rails, and the necessity of heavier bridges, or some other
                        means of getting over or under the river. Addison took very good care to point out that the
                        Chicago City or South Side Railway was in a much more fortunate position than either of the
                        other two by reason of its freedom from the river-crossing problem. Then he again commiserated
                        the North Side company on its rather difficult position. "Your company will have a very
                        great deal to do, I fancy," he reiterated.
                    Kaffrath was duly impressed and appropriately depressed, for his eight hundred shares
                        would be depressed in value by the necessity of heavy expenditures for tunnels and other
                        improvements Nevertheless there was some consolation in the thought that such betterment, as
                        Addison now described, would in the long run make the lines more profitable. But in the mean
                        time there might be rough sailing. The old directors ought to act soon now, he thought. With the
                        South Side company being done over, they would have to follow suit. But would they? How could he
                        get them to see that, even though it were necessary to mortgage the lines for years to come, it
                        would pay in the long run? He was sick of old, conservative, cautious methods.
                    After the lapse of a few weeks Addison, still acting for Cowperwood, had a second and
                        private conference with Kaffrath. He said, after exacting a promise of secrecy for the present,
                        that since their previous conversation he had become aware of new developments. In the interval
                        he had been visited by several men of long connection with street-railways in other localities.
                        They had been visiting various cities, looking for convenient outlet for their capital, and had
                        finally picked on Chicago. They had looked over the various lines here, and had decided that the
                        North Chicago City Railway was as good a field as any. He then elaborated with exceeding care
                        the idea which Cowperwood had outlined to him. Kaffrath, dubious at first, was finally won over.
                        He had too long chafed under  the dusty, poky
                        attitude of the old r$eAgime. He did not know who these new men were, but this scheme was in
                        line with his own ideas. It would require, as Addison pointed out, the expenditure of several
                        millions of dollars, and he did not see how the money could be raised without outside
                        assistance, unless the lines were heavily mortgaged. If these new men were willing to pay a high
                        rate for fifty-one percent, of this stock for ninety-nine years and would guarantee a
                        satisfactory rate of interest on all the stock as it stood, besides inaugurating a forward
                        policy, why not let them? It would be just as good as mortgaging the soul out of the old
                        property, and the management was of no value, anyhow. Kaffrath could not see how fortunes were
                        to be made for these new investors out of subsidiary construction and equipment companies, in
                        which Cowperwood would be interested, how by issuing watered stock on the old and new lines the
                        latter need scarcely lay down a dollar once he had the necessary opening capital (the
                        "talking capital," as he was fond of calling it) guaranteed. Cowperwood and
                        Addison had by now agreed, if this went through, to organize the Chicago Trust Company with
                        millions back of it to manipulate all their deals. Kaffrath only saw a better return on his
                        stock, possibly a chance to get in on the "ground plan," as a new phrase
                        expressed it, of the new company.
                    "That's what I've been telling these fellows for the past
                        three years," he finally exclaimed to Addison, flattered by the latter's
                        personal attention and awed by his great influence; "but they never have been willing
                        to listen to me. The way this North Side system has been managed is a crime. Why, a child could
                        do better than we have done. They've saved on track and rolling-stock, and lost on
                        population. People are what we want up there, and there is only one way that I know of to get
                        them, and that is to give them decent car service. I'll tell you frankly We've
                        never done it."
                    Not long after this Cowperwood had a short talk with Kaffrath, in which he promised
                        the latter not only six hundred dollars a share for all the stock he possessed or would part
                        with on lease, but a bonus of new company stock for his influence. Kaffrath returned to the
                        North Side jubilant  for himself and for his company.
                        He decided after due thought that a roundabout way would best serve CowperWood's ends,
                        a line of subtle suggestion from some seemingly disinterested party. Consequently he caused
                        William Johnson, the directing engineer, to approach Albert Thorsen, one of the most vulnerable
                        of the directors, declaring he had heard privately that Isaac White, Arnold C. Benjamin, and
                        Otto Matjes, three other directors and the heaviest owners, had been offered a very remarkable
                        price for their stock, and that they were going to sell, leaving the others out in the cold.
                    Thorsen was beside himself with grief. "When did you hear that?" he
                        asked.
                    Johnson told him, but for the time being kept the source of his information secret.
                        Thorsen at once hurried to his friend, Solon Kaempfaert, who in turn went to Kaffrath for
                        information.
                    "I have heard something to that effect," was Kaffrath's
                        only comment, "but really I do not know."
                    Thereupon Thorsen and Kaempfaert imagined that Kaffrath was in the conspiracy to sell
                        out and leave them with no particularly valuable pickings. It was very sad.
                    Meanwhile, Cowperwood, on the advice of Kaffrath, was approaching Isaac White, Arnold
                        C. Benjamin, and Otto Matjes directtalking with them as if they were the only three he desired
                        to deal with. A little later Thorsen and Kaempfaert were visited in the same spirit, and agreed
                        in secret fear to sell out or rather lease at the very advantageous terms Cowperwood offered,
                        providing he could get the others to do likewise. This gave the latter a strong backing of
                        sentiment on the board. Finally Isaac White stated at one of the meetings that he had been
                        approached with an interesting proposition, which he then and there outlined. He was not sure
                        what to think, he said, but the board might like to consider it. At once Thorsen and Kaempfaert
                        were convinced that all Johnson had suggested was true. It was decided to have Cowperwood come
                        and explain to the full board just what his plan was, and this he did in a long, bland, smiling
                        talk. It was made plain that the road would have to be put in shape in the near future, and that
                        this proposed plan relieved all of them of work, worry,  and care. Moreover, they were guaranteed more interest at once than they had
                        expected to earn in the next twenty or thirty years. Thereupon it was agreed that Cowperwood and
                        his plan should be given a trial. Seeing that if he did not succeed in paying the proposed
                        interest promptly the property once more became theirs, so they thought, and that he assumed all
                        obligationstaxes, water rents, old claims, a few pensionsit appeared in the light of a rather
                        idyllic scheme.
                    "Well, boys, I think this is a pretty good day's work
                        myself," observed Anthony Ewer, laying a friendly hand on the shoulder of Mr. Albert
                        Thorsen. "I'm sure we can all unite in wishing Mr. Cowperwood luck with his
                        adventure." Mr. Ewer's seven hundred and fifteen shares, worth seventy-one
                        thousand five hundred dollars, having risen to a valuation of four hundred and twenty-nine
                        thousand dollars, he was naturally jubilant.
                    "You're right," replied Thorsen, who was parting with four
                        hundred and eighty shares out of a total of seven hundred and ninety, and seeing them all bounce
                        in value from two hundred to six hundred dollars. "He's an interesting man. I
                        hope he succeeds."
                    Coweperwood, waking the next morning in Aileen's roomhe had been out late
                        the night before with McKenty, Addison, Videra, and othersturned and, patting her neck where she
                        was dozing, said: "Well, pet, yesterday afternoon I wound up that North Chicago Street
                        Railway deal. I'm president of the new North Side company just as soon as I get my
                        board of directors organized. We're going to De or some real consequence in this
                        village, after all, in a year or two."
                    He was hoping that this fact, among other things, would end in mollifying Aileen
                        toward him. She had been so gloomy, remote, weary these many daysever since the terrific assault
                        on Rita.
                    "Yes? she replied, with a half-hearted smile, rubbing her waking eyes. She
                        was clad in a foamy nightgown of white and pink. "That's nice, isn't
                        it?"
                    Cowperwood brought himself up on one elbow and looked at her, smoothing her round,
                        bare arms, which he always  admired. The luminous
                        richness of her hair had never lost its charm completely.
                    "That means that I can do the same thing with the Chicago West Division
                        Company in a year or so," he went on. " But there's going to be a lot
                        of talk about this, I'm afraid, and I don t want that just now. It will work out all
                        right. I can see Schryhart and Merrill and some of these other people taking notice pretty soon.
                        They've missed out on two of the biggest things Chicago ever hadgas and
                        railways."
                    "Oh yes, Frank, I'm glad for you," commented Aileen,
                        rather drearily, who, in spite of her sorrow over his defection, was still glad that he was
                        going on and forward. "You'll always do all right."
                    "I wish you wouldn't feel so badly, Aileen," he said, with
                        a kind of affectional protest. "Aren't you going to try and be happy with me?
                        This is as much for you as for me. You will be able to pay up old scores even better than I
                        will."
                    He smiled winningly.
                    "Yes," she replied, reproachfully but tenderly at that, a little
                        sorrowfully, "a lot of good money does me. It was your love I wanted."
                    "But you have that," he insisted. "I've told you
                        that over and over. I never ceased to care for you really. You know I didn't"
                    "Yes, I know" she replied, even as he gathered her close in his
                        arms. "I know how you care." But that did not prevent her from responding to
                        him warmly, for back of all her fuming protest was heartache, the wish to have his love intact,
                        to restore that pristine affection which she had once assumed would endure forever.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE POWER OF THE PRESS
                    THE morning papers, in spite of the efforts of Cowperwood and his friends to keep
                        this transfer secret, shortly thereafter were full of rumors of a change in "North
                        Chicago. Frank Algernon Cowperwood, hitherto unmentioned in connection with Chicago
                        street-railways, was pointed to as the probable successor to Onias C. Skinner, and Edwin L.
                        Kaffrath, one of the old directors, as future vice-president. The men back of the deal were
                        referred to as "in all likelihood Eastern capitalists " Cowperwood, as he sat
                        in Aileen's room examining the various morning papers, saw that before the day was over
                        he would be sought out for an expression ot opinion and further details, He proposed to ask the
                        newspaper men to wait a few days until he could talk to the publishers of the papers them
                        selveswin confidenceand then announce a general policy; it would be something that would please
                        the city, and the residents of the North Side in particular. At the same time he did not care to
                        promise anything which he could not easily and profitably perform. He wanted fame and
                        reputation, but he money even more; he in tended to get both.
                    To one who had been working thus long in the minor realms of finance, as Cowperwood
                        considered that he had so far been doing, this sudden upward step into the more conspicuous
                        regions of high finance and control was an all-inspiring thing. So long had he been stirring
                        about in a lesser region, paving the way by hours and hours of private thought and conference
                        and scheming, that now when he actually had achieved his end he could scarcely believe for the
                        time being that it was true. Chicago was such a splendid city. It was growing so fast. Its
                        opportunities were  so wonderful. These men who had
                        thus foolishly parted with an indefinite lease of their holdings had not really considered what
                        they were doing. This matter of Chicago street-railways, once he had them well in hand, could be
                        made to yield such splendid profits! He could incorporate and overcapitalize. Many subsidiary
                        lines, which McKenty would secure for him for a song, would be worth millions in the future, and
                        they should be his entirely; he would not be indebted to the directors of the old North Chicago
                        company for any interest on those. By degrees, year by year, as the city grew, the lines which
                        were still controlled by this old company, but were practically his, would become a mere item, a
                        central core, in the so very much larger system of new lines which he would build up about it.
                        Then the West Side, and even the South Side sectionsbut why dream? He might readily become the
                        sole master of street-railway traffic in Chicago! He might readily become the most princely
                        financial figure in the cityand one of the few great Financial magnates ot me nation.
                    In any public enterprise of any kind, as he knew, where the suffrages of the people
                        or the privileges in their possessions are desired, the newspapers must always be considered. As
                        Cowperwood even now was casting hungry eyes in the direction of the two tunnels'one to
                        be held in view of an eventual assumption of the Chicago West Division Company, the other to be
                        given to the North Chicago Street Railway, which he had now organized, it was necessary to make
                        friends with the various publishers. How to go about it?
                    Recently, because of the influx of a heavy native and foreign-born population
                        (thousands and thousands of men of all sorts and conditions looking for the work which the
                        growth of the city seemed to promise), and because of the dissemination of stirring ideas
                        through radical individuals of foreign groups concerning anarchism, socialism, communism, and
                        the like, the civic idea in Chicago had become most acute. This very May, in which Cowperwood
                        had been going about attempting to adjust matters in his favor, there had been a tremendous
                        national flare-up, when in a great public place on the West Side known as the Hay-market, at one
                        of a number of labor meetings, dubbed  anarchistic
                        because of the principles of some of the speakers, a bomb had been hurled by some excited
                        fanatic, which had exploded and maimed or killed a number of policemen, injuring slightly
                        several others. This had brought to the fore, once and for all, as by a flash of lightning, the
                        whole problem of mass against class, and had given it such an airing as m view of the cheerful,
                        optimistic, almost inconsequential American mind had not previously been possible. It changed,
                        quite as an eruption might, the whole face of the commercial landscape. Man thought
                        there-things. What was anarchism? What socialism? What rights had the rank and file, anyhow, in
                        economic and governmental development? Such were interesting questions, and following the
                        bombwhich acted as a great stone cast in the waterthese; still widening and emanating until they
                        took such Supposedly remote and impregnable quarters as editorial offices, banks and financial
                        institutions generally, and the haunts of political dignitaries and their jobs.
                    In the face of this, however, Cowperwood was not disturbed. He did not believe in
                        either the strength of the masses or their ultimate rights, though he sympathized with the
                        condition of individuals, and did believe that men like himself were sent into the world to
                        better perfect its mechanism and habitable order. Often now, in these preliminary days, he
                        looked at the large companies of men with their horses gathered in and about the several
                        carbarns of the company, and wondered at their state. So many of them were so dull. They were
                        rather like animals, patient, inartistic, hopeless. He thought of their shabby homes, their long
                        hours, their poor pay, and then concluded that if anything at all could be done for them it
                        would be pay them decent living wages, which he proposed to donothing more, i hey could not be
                        expected to understand his dreams or his visions, or to share in the magnificence and social
                        dominance which he craved. He finally decided that it would be as well for him to personally
                        visit the various newspaper publishers and talk the situation over with them. Addison, when
                        consulted as to this project, was somewhat dubious. He had small faith in the newspapers.
                    
                    He had seen them play petty politics, follow up enmities and personal grudges, and
                        even sell out, in certain cases, for pathetically small rewards.
                    "I tell you how it is, Frank," remarked Addison, on one occasion.
                        "You will have to do all this business on cotton heels, practically. You know that old
                        gas crowd are still down on you, in spite of the fact that you are one of their largest
                        stockholders. Schryhart isn't at all friendly, and he practically owns the Chronicle. Ricketts will just about say what he wants him to say. Hyssop,
                        of the Mail and the Transcript, is
                        an independent man, but he's a Presbyterian and a cold, self-righteous moralist.
                        Braxton's paper, the Globe, practically belongs to
                        Merrill, but Braxton's a nice fellow, at that. Old General MacDonald, of the Inquirer, is old General MacDonald. It's all according
                        to how he feels when he gets up in the morning. If he should chance to like your looks he might
                        support you forever and forever until you crossed his conscience in some way. He's a
                        fine old walrus. I like him. Neither Schryhart nor Merrill nor any one else can get anything out
                        of him unless he wants to give it. He may not live so many years, however, and I don't
                        trust that son of his. Haguenin, of the Press, is all right and
                        friendly to you, as I understand. Other things being equal, I think he'd naturally
                        support you in anything he thought was fair and reasonable. Well, there you have them. Get them
                        all on your side if you can. Don't ask for the La Salle Street tunnel right away. Let
                        it come as an afterthoughta great public need. The main thing will be to avoid having the other
                        companies stirring up a real fight against you. Depend on it, Schryhart will be thinking pretty
                        hard about this whole business from now on. As for Merrillwell, if you can show him where he can
                        get something out of it for his store, I guess he'll be for you."
                    It is one of the splendid yet sinister fascinations of life that there is no tracing
                        to their ultimate sources all the winds of influence that play upon a given barqueall the
                        breaths of chance that fill or desert our bellied or our sagging sails. We plan and plan, but
                        who by taking thought can add a cubit to his stature? Who can overcome or even  assist the Providence that shapes our ends, rough
                        hew them as we may. Cowperwood was now entering upon a great public career, and the various
                        editors and public Personalities of the city were watching him with interest. Augustus M.
                        Haguenin, a free agent with his organ, the Press, and yet not
                        free, either, because he was harnessed to the necessity of making his paper pay, was most
                        interested. Lacking the commanding magnetism of like MacDonald, he was nevertheless an honest
                        man, well-intentioned, thoughtful, careful. Haguenin ever science the outcome of in the
                        latter's career. It seemed to him that Cowperwood was probably destined to become a
                        significant figure. Raw, glittering force, however, compounded of the cruel Machiavellianism of
                        nature, if it be but Machiavellian, of nature, if it be but Machiavellian, seems to exercise a
                        profound attraction for the conventionally rooted. Your cautious citizen of average means,
                        looking out through the eye of his dull world of seeming fact, is often the first to forgive or
                        condone the grim butcheries of theory by which the strong rise. Haguenin, observing Cowperwood,
                        conceived of him as a man perhaps as much sinned against as sinning, a man who would be faithful
                        to stress. As it happened, the Haguenins were neighbors of the Cowperwoods, and since those days
                        when the latter had attempted unsuccessfully to enter Chicago society this family had been as
                        acceptable as any of those who had remained friendly.
                    And so, when Cowperwood arrived one day at the office of the Press in a blowing snow-stormit was just before the Christmas
                        holidaysHaguenin was glad to see him. "It's certainly real winter weather
                        we're having now, isn't it?" he observed, cheerfully. "How
                        goes the North Chicago Street Railway business?" For months he, with the other
                        publishers, had been aware that the whole North Side was to be made over by fine cable-tracks,
                        powerhouses, and handsome cars; and there already was talk that some better arrangement was to
                        be made to bring the passengers into the down-town section.
                    "Mr. Haguenin," said Cowperwood, smilinglyhe was arrayed in a heavy
                        fur coat, with a collar of beaver and 
                        driving-gauntlets of dogskin"we have reached the place in this street-railway problem
                        on the North Side where we are going to require the assistance of the newspapers, or at least
                        their friendly support. At present our principal difficulty is that all our lines, when they
                        come down-town, stop at Lake Streetjust this side of the bridges. That means a long walk for
                        everybody to all the streets south of it, and, as you probably know, there has been considerable
                        complaint. Besides that, this river traffic is becoming more and more what I may say it has been
                        for yearsan intolerable nuisance. We have all suffered from it. No effort has ever been made to
                        regulate it, and because it is so heavy I doubt whether it ever can be systematized in any
                        satisfactory way. The best thing in the long run would be to tunnel under the river; but that is
                        such an expensive proposition that, as things are now, we are in no position to undertake it.
                        The traffic on the North Side does not warrant it. It really does not warrant the reconstruction
                        of the three bridges which we now use at State, Dearborn, and Clark; yet, if we introduce the
                        cable system, which we now propose, these bridges will have to be done over. It seems to me,
                        seeing that this is an enterprise in which the public is as much interested almost as we are,
                        that it would only be fair if the city should help pay for this reconstruction work. All the
                        land adjacent to these lines, and the property served by them, will be greatly enhanced in
                        value. The city's taxing power will rise tremendously. I have talked to several
                        financiers here in Chicago, and they agree with me; but, as is usual in all such cases, I find
                        that some of the politicians are against me. Since I have taken charge of the North Chicago
                        company the attitude of one or two papers has not been any too friendly." (In the Chronicle, controlled by Schryhart, there had already been a
                        number of references to the probability that now, since Cowperwood and his friends were in
                        charge, the skyrocketing tactics of the old Lake View, Hyde Park, and other gas organizations
                        would be repeated. Braxton's Globe, owned by Merrill,
                        being semi-neutral, had merely suggested that it hoped that no such methods would be repeated
                        here.) "Perhaps you may know," Cowperwood continued, "that we have a
                        very sweeping programme of  improvement in mind, if
                        we can obtain proper public consideration and assistance."
                    At this point he reached down in one of his pockets and drew forth astutely drafted
                        maps and blue-prints, especially prepared for this occasion. They showed main cable lines on
                        North Clark, La Salle, and Wells streets. These lines coming down-town converged at Illinois and
                        La Salle streets on the North Sideand though Cowperwood made no reference to it at the moment,
                        they were indicated on the map in red as running over or under the river at La Salle Street,
                        where was no bridge, and emerging therefrom, following a loop along La Salle to Munroe, to
                        Dearborn, to Randolph, and thence into the tunnel again, Cowperwood allowed Haguenin to gather
                        the very interesting traffic significance of it all before he proceeded.
                    "On the map, Mr. Haguenin, I have indicated a plan which, if we can gain the
                        consent of the city, will obviate any quarrel as to the great expense of reconstructing the
                        bridges, and will make use of a piece of property which is absolutely without value to the city
                        at present, but which can be made into something of vast convenience to the public. I am
                        referring, as you see"he laid an indicative finger on the map in Mr.
                        Haguenin's hands"to the old La Salle Street tunnel, which is now boarded up
                        and absolutely of no use to any one. It was omit apparently under a misapprehension as to the
                        grade the average loaded wagon could negotiate. When it was found to be unprofitable it was sold
                        to the city and locked up. If you have ever been through it you know what condition it is in. My
                        engineers tell me the walls are leaking, and that there is great danger of a cave-in unless it
                        is very speedily repaired. I am also told that it will require about four hundred thousand
                        dollars to put it in suitable condition for use. My theory is that if the North Chicago Street
                        Railway is willing to go to this expense for the sake of solving this bridge-crush problem, and
                        giving the residents of the North Side a sensible and uninterrupted service into the business
                        heart, the city ought to be willing to make us a present of this tunnel for the time being, or
                        at least a long lease at a purely nominal rental."
                    Cowperwood paused to see what Haguenin would say.
                    
                    The latter was looking at the map gravely, wondering whether it was fair for
                        Cowperwood to make this demand, wondering whether the city should grant it to him without
                        compensation, wondering whether the bridge-traffic problem was as serious as he pointed out,
                        wondering, indeed, whether this whole move was not a clever ruse to obtain
                    "And what is this?" he asked, laying a finger on the aforementioned
                        loop.
                    "That," replied Cowperwood," is the only method we have
                        been able to figure out of serving the down-town business section and the North side, and of
                        solving this bridge problem. If we obtain the tunnel, as I hope we shall, all the cars of these
                        North Side lines will emerge here"he pointed to La Salle and Randolph"and
                        swing aroundthat is, they will if the city council give us the right of way. I think, of course,
                        there can be no reasonable objection to that. There is no reason why the Citizens of the North
                        Side shouldn't have as comfortable an access to the business heart as those of the West
                        or South Side."
                    "None in the world," Mr. Haguenin was compelled to admit.
                        "Are you satisfied, however, that the council and the city should sanction the gift of
                        a loop of this kind without some form of compensation?"
                    "I see no reason why they shouldn't," replied Cowperwood,
                        in a somewhat injured tone. "There has never been any question of compensation where
                        improvements have been suggested for the city in the past. The South Side company has been
                        allowed to turn in a loop around State and Wabash. The Chicago City Passenger Railway has a loop
                        in Adams and Washington streets.
                    "Quite so," said Mr. Haguenin, vaguely. "That is true. But
                        this tunnel, nowdo you think that should fall In the same category of public
                        beneficences?"
                    At the same time he could not help thinking, as he looked at the proposed loop
                        indicated on the map, that the new cable line, with its string of trailers, would give down-town
                        Chicago a truly metropolitan air and would provide a splendid outlet for the North Side. The
                        streets in question were magnificent commercial thoroughfares, crowded even at this date with
                        structures five, six, seven, and even eight  stones
                        high, and brimming with heavy streams of eager lifeyoung, fresh, optimistic. Because of the
                        narrow area into which the commercial life of the city tended to con-valuableamong the most
                        valuable in the whole city. Also he observed that if this loop did come here its cars, on their
                        return trip along Dearborn Street, would pass by his very doorthe office of the Pressthereby enhancing the value of that property of which he was the
                        owner.
                    "I certainly do, Mr. Haguenin," returned Cowperwood, emphatically,
                        in answer to his query. "Personally, I should think Chicago would be glad to pay a
                        bonus to get its street-railway service straightened out, especially where a corporation comes
                        forward with a liberal, conservative programme such as this. It means millions in growth of
                        property values on the North Side. It means millions to the business heart to have this loop
                        system laid down just as I suggest."
                    He put his finger firmly on the map which he had brought, and Haguenin agreed with
                        him that the plan was undoubtedly a sound business proposition. "Personally, I should
                        be the last to complain," he added, "for the line passes my door. At the same
                        time this tunnel, as I understand it, cost in the neighborhood of eight hundred thousand or a
                        million dollars. It is a delicate problem. I should like to know what the other editors think of
                        it, and how the city council itself would feel toward it."
                    Cowperwood nodded. "Certainly, certainly," he said. "With
                        pleasure, I would not come here at all if I did not feel that I had a perfectly legitimate
                        propositionone that the press of the city should unite in supporting. Where a corporation such
                        as ours is facing large expenditures, which have to be financed by outside capital, it is only
                        natural that we should wish to allay useless, groundless opposition in advance. I hope we may
                        command your support."
                    "I hope you may," smiled Mr. Haguenin. They parted the best of
                        friends.
                    The other publishers, guardians of the city's privileges, were not quite so
                        genial as Haguenin in their approval of Cowperwood's proposition. The use of a tunnel
                        and  several of the most important down-town streets
                        might readily be essential to the development of Cowperwood's North Side schemes, but
                        the gift of them was a different matter. Already, as a matter of fact, the various publishers
                        and editors had been consulted by Schryhart, Merrill, and others with a view to discovering how
                        they felt as to this new venture, and whether Cowperwood would be cheerfully indorsed or not.
                        Schryhart, smarting from the wounds he had received in the gas war, viewed this new activity on
                        Cowperwood's part with a suspicious and envious eye. To him much more than to the
                        others it spelled a new and dangerous foe in the street-railway field, although all the leading
                        citizens of Chicago were interested.
                    "I suppose now," he said one evening to the Hon. Walter Melville
                        Hyssop, editor and publisher of the Transcript and the Evening Mail, whom he met at the Union League, "that
                        this fellow Cowperwood will attempt some disturbing coup in connection with street-railway
                        affairs. He is just the sort. I think, from an editorial point of view, his political
                        connections will bear watching." Already there were rumors abroad that McKenty might
                        have something to do with the new company.
                    Hyssop, a medium-sized, ornate, conservative person, was not so sure. "We
                        shall find out soon enough, no doubt, what propositions Mr. Cowperwood has in hand," he
                        remarked. "He is very energetic and capable, as I understand it"
                    Hyssop and Schryhart, as well as the latter and Merrill, had been social friends for
                        years and years.
                    After his call on Mr. Haguenin, Cowperwood's naturally selective and
                        self-protective judgment led him next to the office of the Inquirer, old General MacDonald's paper, where he found that because of
                        rhuematism and the severe, inclement weather of Chicago, the old General had sailed only a few
                        days before for Italy. His son, an aggressive, mercantile type of youth of thirty-two, and a
                        managing editor by the name of Du Bois were acting in his stead. In the son, Truman Leslie
                        MacDonald, an intense, calm, and penetrating young man, Cowperwood encountered some one who,
                        like himself, saw life only from the point of view of sharp, self-centered, personal advantage.
                        What was he,  Truman Leslie MacDonald, to derive from
                        any given situation, and how was he to make the Inquirer an even
                        greater property than it had been under his father before him? He did not propose to be
                        overwhelmed by the old General's rather flowery reputation. At the same time he meant
                        to become imposingly rich. An active member of a young and very smart set which had been growing
                        up on the North Side, he rode, drove, was instrumental in organizing a new and exclusive country
                        club, and despised the rank and file as unsuited to the fine atmosphere to which he aspired. Mr.
                        Clifford Du Bois, the managing editor, was a cool reprobate of forty, masquerading as a
                        gentleman, and using the Inquirer in subtle ways for furthering
                        his personal ends, and that under the old General's very nose. He was osseous,
                        sandy-haired, blue-eyed, with a keen, formidable nose and a solid chin. Clifford Du Bois was
                        always careful never to let his left hand know what his right hand did.
                    It was this sapient pair that received Cowperwood in the old General's
                        absence, first in Mr. Du Bois's room and then in that of Mr. MacDonald. The latter had
                        already heard much of Cowperwood's doings. Men who had been connected with the old gas
                        warJordan Jules, for instance, president of the old North Chicago Gas Company, and Hudson Baker,
                        president of the old West Chicago Gas Companyhad denounced him long before as a bucaneer who had
                        pirated them out of very comfortable sinecures. Here he was now invading the North Chicago
                        street-railway field and coming with startling schemes for the reorganization of the down-town
                        business heart. Why shouldn't the city have something in return; or, better yet, those
                        who helped to formulate the public opinion, so influential in the success of
                        Cowperwood's plans? Truman Leslie MacDonald, as has been said, did not see life from
                        his father's point of view at all. He had in mind a sharp bargain, which he could drive
                        with Cowperwood during the old gentleman's absence. The General need never know.
                    "I understand your point of view, Mr. Cowperwood," he commented,
                        loftily, "but where does the city come in? I see very clearly how important this is to
                        the people of the North Side, and even to the merchants and real-estate  owners in the down-town section; but that simply means that it is ten
                        times as important to you. Undoubtedly, it will help the city, but the city is growing, anyhow,
                        and that will help you. I've said all along that these public franchises were worth
                        more than they used to be worth. Nobody seems to see it very clearly as yet, but it's
                        true just the same. That tunnel is worth more now than the day it was built. Even if the city
                        can't use it, somebody can."
                    He was meaning to indicate a rival car line.
                    Cowperwood bristled internally.
                    "That's all very well," he said, preserving his surface
                        composure, "but why make fish of one and flesh of another? The South Side company has a
                        loop for which it never paid a dollar. So has the Chicago City Passenger Railway. The North Side
                        company is planning more extensive improvements than were ever undertaken by any single company
                        before. I hardly think it is fair to raise the question of compensation and a franchise tax at
                        this time, and in connection with this one company only."
                    "Umwell, that may be true of the other companies. The South Side company had
                        those streets long ago. They merely connected them up. But this tunnel, nowthat's a
                        different matter, isn't it? The city bought and paid for that, didn't
                        it?"
                    "Quite trueto help out men who saw that they couldn't make another
                        dollar out of it," said Cowperwood, acidly. "But it's of no use to
                        the city. It will cave in pretty soon if it isn't repaired. Why, the consent of
                        property-owners alone, along the line of this loop, is going to aggregate a considerable sum. It
                        seems to me instead of hampering a great work of this kind the public ought to do everything in
                        its power to assist it. It means giving a new metropolitan flavor to this down-town section. It
                        is time Chicago was getting out of its swaddling clothes."
                    Mr. MacDonald, the younger, shook his head. He saw clearly enough the significance of
                        the points made, but he was jealous of Cowperwood and of his success. This loop franchise and
                        tunnel gift meant millions for some one. Why shouldn't there be something in it for
                        him? He called in Mr. Du Bois and went over the proposition with  him. Quite without effort the latter sensed the drift of the situation.
                    "It's an excellent proposition," he said. "I
                        don't see but that the city should have something, though. Public sentiment is rather
                        against gifts to corporations just at present."
                    Cowperwood caught the drift of what was in young MacDonald's mind.
                    "Well, what would you suggest as a fair rate of compensation to the
                        city?" he asked, cautiously, wondering whether this aggressive youth would go so far as
                        to commit himself in any way.
                    "Oh, well, as to that," MacDonald replied, with a deprecatory wave
                        of his hand, "I couldn't say. It ought to bear a reasonable relationship to
                        the value of the utility as it now stands. I should want to think that over. I
                        shouldn't want to see the city demand anything unreasonable. Certainly, though, there
                        is a privilege here that is worth something."
                    Cowperwood flared inwardly. His greatest weakness, if he had one, was that he could
                        but ill brook opposition of any kind. This young upstart, with his thin, cool face and sharp,
                        hard eyes! He would have liked to tell him and his paper to go to the devil. He went away,
                        hoping that he could influence the Inquirer in some other way
                        upon the old General's return.
                    As he was sitting next morning in his office in North Clark Street he was aroused by
                        the still novel-sounding bell of the telephoneone of the earliest in useon the wall back of him.
                        After a parley with his secretary, he was informed that a gentleman connected with the Inquirer wished to speak with him.
                    "This is the Inquirer," said a voice
                        which Cowperwood, his ear to the receiver, thought he recognized as that of young Truman
                        MacDonald, the General's son. "You wanted to know," continued the
                        voice, "what would be considered adequate compensation so far as that tunnel matter is
                        concerned. Can you hear me?"
                    "Yes," replied Cowperwood.
                    "Well, I should not care to influence your judgment one way or the other;
                        but if my opinion were asked I should  say about
                        fifty thousand dollars' worth of North Chicago Street Railway stock would be
                        satisfactory."
                    The voice was young, clear, steely.
                    "To whom would you suggest that it might be paid?" Cowperwood
                        asked, softly, quite genially.
                    "That, also, I would suggest, might be left to your very sound
                        judgment."
                    The voice ceased. The receiver was hung up.
                    "Well, I'll be damned!" Cowperwood said, looking at the
                        floor reflectively. A smile spread over his face. "I'm not going to be held up
                        like that. I don't need to be. It isn't worth it. Not at present,
                        anyhow." His teeth set.
                    He was underestimating Mr. Truman Leslie MacDonald, principally because he did not
                        like him. He thought his father might return and oust him. It was one of the most vital mistakes
                        he ever made in his life.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE COMING OF STEPHANIE PLATOW
                    DURING this period of what might have been called financial and commercial progress,
                        the affairs of Aileen and Cowperwood had been to a certain extent smoothed over. Each summer
                        now, partly to take Aileen's mind off herself and partly to satisfy his own desire to
                        see the world and collect objects of art, in which he was becoming more and more interested, it
                        was Cowperwood's custom to make with his wife a short trip abroad or to foreign
                        American lands, visiting in these two years Russia, Scandinavia, Argentine, Chili, and Mexico.
                        Their plan was to leave in May or June with the outward rush of traffic, and return in September
                        or early October. His idea was to soothe Aileen as much as possible, to fill her mind with
                        pleasing anticipations as to her eventual social triumph somewhere in New York or London, if not
                        Chicagoto make her feel that in spite of his physical desertion he was still spiritually loyal.
                    By now also Cowperwood was so shrewd that he had the ability to simulate an affection
                        and practise a gallantry which he did not feel, or, rather, that was not backed by real passion.
                        He was the soul of attention; he would buy her flowers, jewels, knickknacks, and ornaments; he
                        would see that her comfort was looked after to the last detail; and yet, at the very same
                        moment, perhaps, he would be looking cautiously about to see what life might offer in the way of
                        illicit entertainment. Aileen knew this, although she could not prove it to be true. At the same
                        time she had an affection and an admiration for the man which gripped her in spite of herself.
                    You have, perhaps, pictured to yourself the mood of some general who has perhaps
                        suffered a great defeat;  the employee who after
                        years of faithful service finds himself discharged. What shall life say to the loving when their
                        love is no longer of any value, when all that has been placed upon the altar of affection has
                        been found to be a vain sacrifice? Philosophy? Give that to dolls to play with. Religion? Seek
                        first the metaphysical-minded. Aileen was no longer the lithe, forceful, dynamic girl of 1865,
                        when Cowperwood first met her. She was still beautiful, it is true, a fair, full-blown, matronly
                        creature not more than thirty-five, looking perhaps thirty, feeling, alas, that she was a girl
                        and still as attractive as ever. It is a grim thing to a woman, however fortunately placed, to
                        realize that age is creeping on, and that love, that singing will-o'-the-wisp, is
                        fading into the ultimate dark. Aileen, within the hour of her greatest triumph, had seen love
                        die. It was useless to tell herself, as she did sometimes, that it might come back, revive. Her
                        ultimately realistic temperament told her this could never be. Though she had routed Rita
                        Sohlberg, she was fully aware that Cowperwood's original constancy was gone. She was no
                        longer happy. Love was dead. That sweet illusion, with its pearly pink for heart and borders,
                        that laughing cherub that lures with Cupid's mouth and misty eye, that young tendril of
                        the vine of life that whispers of eternal spring-time, that calls and calls where aching,
                        wearied feet by legion follow, was no longer in existence.
                    In vain the tears, the storms, the Self-tortures; in vain the looks in the mirror,
                        the studied examination of plump, sweet features still fresh and inviting. One day, at the sight
                        of tired circles under her eyes, she ripped from her neck a lovely ruche that she was adjusting
                        and, throwing herself on her bed, cried as though her heart would break. Why primp? Why
                        ornament? Her Frank did not love her. What to her now was a handsome residence in Michigan
                        Avenue, the refinements of a French boudoir, or clothing that ran the gamut of the
                        dressmaker's art, hats that were like orchids blooming in serried rows? In vain, in
                        vain! Like the raven that perched above the lintel of the door, sad memory was here, grave in
                        her widow weeds, crying "never more." Aileen knew that the sweet illusion
                        which had bound Cowperwood to her for a time had gone  and would never come again. He was here. His step was in the room mornings and evenings; at
                        night for long prosaic, uninterrupted periods she could hear him breathing by her side, his hand
                        on her body. There were other nights when he was not therewhen he was "out of the
                        city"and she resigned herself to accept his excuses at their face value. Why quarrel?
                        she asked herself. What could she do? She was waiting, waiting, but for what?
                    And Cowperwood, noting the strange, unalterable which time works in us all, the
                        inward lap of the marks of age, the fluted recession of that splendor and radiance which is
                        youth, sighed at times perhaps, but turned his face to that dawn which is forever breaking where
                        youth is. Not for him that poetic loyalty which substitutes for the perfection of young love its
                        memories, or takes for the glitter of passion and desire that once was the happy thoughts of
                        companionshipthe crystal memories that like early dews congealed remain beaded recollections to
                        comfort or torture for the end of former joys. On the contrary, after the vanishing of Rita
                        Sohlberg, with all that she meant in the way of a delicate insouciance which Aileen had never
                        known, his temperament ached, for he must have something like that. Truth to say, he must always
                        have youth, the illusion of beauty, vanity in womanhood, the novelty of a new, untested
                        temperament, quite as he must have pictures, old porcelain, music, a mansion, illuminated
                        missals, power, the applause of the great, unthinking world.
                    As has been said, this promiscuous attitude on Cowperwood's part was the
                        natural flowering out of a temperament that was chronically promiscuous, intellectually
                        uncertain, and philosophically anarchistic. From one point of view it might have been said of
                        him that he was seeking the realization of an ideal, yet to one's amazement our very
                        ideals change at times and leave us floundering in the dark. What is an ideal, anyhow? A wraith,
                        a mist, a perfume in the wind, a dream of fair water. The soul-yearning of a girl like
                        Antoinette Nowak was a little too strained for him. It was too ardent, too clinging, and he had
                        gradually extricated himself, not without difficulty, from that particular entanglement. Since
                        then he had been intimate  with other women for brief
                        periods, but to no great satisfactionDorothy Ormsby, Jessie Belle Hinsdale, Toma Lewis, Hilda
                        Jewell; but they shall be names merely. One was an actress, one a stenographer, one the daughter
                        of one of his stock patrons, one a church-worker, a solicitor for charity coming to him to seek
                        help for an orphan's home. It was a pathetic mess at times, but so are all defiant
                        variations from the accustomed drift of things. In the hardy language of Napoleon, one cannot
                        make an omelette without cracking a number of eggs.
                    The coming of Stephanie Platow, Russian Jewess on one side of her family,
                        Southwestern American on the other, was an event in Cowperwood's life. She was tall,
                        graceful, brilliant, young, with much of the optimism of Rita Sohlberg, and yet endowed with a
                        strange fatalism which, once he knew her better, touched and moved him. He met her on shipboard
                        on the way to G$oUteborg. Her father, Isadore Platow, was a wealthy furrier of Chicago. He was a
                        large, meaty, oily type of mana kind or ambling, gelatinous formula of the male, with the usual
                        sound commercial instincts of the Jew. but with an errant philosophy which led him to believe
                        first one thing and then another so long as neither interfered definitely with his business. He
                        was an admirer of Henry George and of so altruistic a programme as that of Robert Owen, and,
                        also, in his way, a social snob. And yet he had married Susetta Osborn, a Texas girl who was
                        once his bookkeeper Mrs. Platow was lithe, amiable, subtle, with an eye always to the main
                        social chancein other words, a climber. She was shrewd enough to realize that a knowledge of
                        books and art and current events was essential, and so she "went in" for these
                        things.
                    It is curious how the temperaments of parents blend and revivify in their children.
                        As Stephanie grew up she had repeated in her very differing body some of her father's
                        and mother's characteristicsan interesting variability of soul. She was tall, dark,
                        sallow, lithe, with a strange moodiness of heart and a recessive, fulgurous gleam in her
                        chestnut-brown, almost brownish-black eyes. She had a full, sensuous, Cupid's mouth, a
                        dreamy and even languishing expression, a graceful neck, and a heavy, dark, and yet pleasingly
                        modeled face. From both her father and mother  she
                        had inherited a penchant for art, literature, philosophy, and music. Already at eighteen she was
                        dreaming of painting, singing, writing poetry, writing books, actinganything and everything.
                        Serene in her own judgment of what was worth while, she was like to lay stress on any silly mood
                        or fad, thinking it exquisitethe last word. Finally, she was a rank voluptuary, dreaming dreams
                        of passionate union with first one and then another type of artist, poet, musicianthe whole
                        gamut of the artistic and emotional world.
                    Cowperwood first saw her on board the Centurion one
                        June morning, as the ship lay at dock in New York. He and Aileen were en route for Norway, she
                        and her father and mother for Denmark and Switzerland. She was hanging over the starboard rail
                        looking at a flock of wide-winged gulls which were besieging the port of the cook's
                        galley. She was musing soulfullyconscious (fully) that she was musing soulfully. He paid very
                        little attention to her, except to note that she was tall, rhythmic, and that a dark-gray plaid
                        dress, and an immense veil of gray silk wound about her shoulders and waist and over one arm,
                        after the manner of a Hindu shawl, appeared to become her much. Her face seemed very sallow, and
                        her eyes ringed as if indicating dyspepsia. Her black hair under a chic hat did not escape his
                        critical eye. Later she and her father appeared at the captain's table, to which the
                        Cowperwoods had also been invited.
                    Cowperwood and Aileen did not know how to take this girl, though she interested them
                        both. They little suspected the chameleon character of her soul. She was an artist, and as
                        formless and unstable as water. It was a mere passing gloom that possessed her. Cowperwood liked
                        the semi-Jewish cast of her face, a certain fullness of the neck, her dark, sleepy eyes. But she
                        was much too young and nebulous, he thought, and he let her pass. On this trip, which endured
                        for ten days, he saw much of her, in different moods, walking with a young Jew in whom she
                        seemed greatly interested, playing at shuffleboard, reading solemnly in a corner out of the
                        reach of the wind or spray, and usually looking na$iUve, preternaturally innocent, remote,
                        dreamy. At other times she seemed possessed of a wild  animation, her eyes alight, her expression vigorous, an intense glow in her soul. Once he saw
                        her bent over a small wood block, cutting a book-plate with a thin steel graving tool.
                    Because of Stephanie's youth and seeming unimportance, her lack of what
                        might be called compelling rosy charm, Aileen had become reasonably friendly with the girl. Far
                        subtler, even at her years, than Aileen, Stephanie gathered a very good impression of the
                        former, of her mental girth, and how to take her. She made friends with her, made a book-plate
                        for her, made a sketch of her. She confided to Aileen that in her own mind she was destined for
                        the stage, if her parents would permit; and Aileen invited her to see her husband's
                        pictures on their return. She little knew how much of a part Stephanie would play in
                        Cowperwood's life.
                    The Cowperwoods, having been put down at G$outeborg, saw no more of the Platows until
                        late October. Then Aileen, being lonely, called to see Stephanie, and occasionally thereafter
                        Stephanie came over to the South Side to see the Cowperwoods. She liked to roam about their
                        house, to dream meditatively in some nook of the rich interior, with a book for company. She
                        liked Cowperwood's pictures, his jades, his missals, his ancient radiant glass. From
                        talking with Aileen she realized that the latter had no real love for these things, that her
                        expressions of interest and pleasure were pure make-believe, based on their value as
                        possessions. For Stephanie herself certain of the illuminated books and bits of glass had a
                        heavy, sensuous appeal, which only the truly artistic can understand. They unlocked dark dream
                        moods and pageants for her. She responded to them, lingered over them, experienced strange moods
                        from them as from the orchestrated richness of music.
                    And in doing so she thought of Cowperwood often. Did he really like these things, or
                        was he just buying them to be buying them? She had heard much of the pseudo artisticthe people
                        who made a show of art. She recalled Cowperwood as he walked the deck of the Centurion. She remembered his large, comprehensive, embracing blue-gray
                        eyes that seemed to blaze with intelligence. He seemed to her quite obviously a more forceful
                        and significant  man than her father, and yet she
                        could not have said why. He always seemed so trigly dressed, so well put together. There was a
                        friendly warmth about all that he said or did, though he said or did little. She felt that his
                        eyes were mocking, that back in his soul there was some kind of humor over something which she
                        did not understand quite.
                    After Stephanie had been back in Chicago six months, during which time she saw very
                        little of Cowperwood, who was busy with his street-railway programme, she was swept into the net
                        of another interest which carried her away from him and Aileen for the time being. On the West
                        Side, among a circle of her mother's friends, had been organized an Amateur Dramatic
                        League, with no less object than to elevate the stage. That world-old problem never fails to
                        interest the new and the inexperienced. It all began in the home of one of the new rich of the
                        West Sidethe Timberlakes. They, in their large house on Ashland Avenue, had a stage, and Georgia
                        Timberlake, a romantic-minded girl of twenty with flaxen hair, imagined she could act. Mrs.
                        Timberlake, a fat, indulgent mother, rather agreed with her. The whole idea, after a few
                        discursive performances of Milton's "The Masque of Comus,"
                        "Pyramus and. Thisbe," and an improved Harlequin and Columbine, written by one
                        of the members, was transferred to the realm of the studios, then quartered in the New Arts
                        Building. An artist by the name of Lane Cross, a portrait-painter, who was much less of an
                        artist than he was a stage director, and not much of either, but who made his living by
                        hornswaggling society into the belief that he could paint, was induced to take charge of these
                        stage performances.
                    By degrees the "Garrick Players," as they chose to call themselves,
                        developed no little skill and craftsmanship in presenting one form and another of classic play.
                        "Romeo and Juliet," with few properties of any kind, "The Learned
                        Ladies" of Moli$eGre, Sheridan's "The Rivals," and the
                        "Elektra" of Sophocles were all given. Considerable ability of one kind and
                        another was developed, the group including two actresses of subsequent repute on the American
                        stage, one of whom was  Stephanie Platow. There were
                        some ten girls and women among the active member, and almost as many mena variety of characters
                        much too extended to discuss here. There was a dramatic critic by the name or Gardner Knowles, a
                        young man, very smug and handsome, who was connected with the Chicago
                            Press. Whipping his neatly trousered legs with his bright little cane, he used to
                        appear at the rooms of the players at the Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday teas which they
                        inaugurated, and discuss the merits of the venture. Thus the Garrick Players were gradually
                        introduced into the newspapers. Lane Cross, the smooth-faced, pasty-souled artist who had
                        charge, was a rake at heart, a subtle seducer of women, who, however, escaped detection by a
                        smooth, conventional bearing. He was interested in such as as Georgia Timberlake, Irma Ottley, a
                        rosy, aggressive maiden who essayed comic r$oCles, and Stephanie Platow. These, with another
                        girl, Ethel Tuckerman, very emotional and romantic, who could dance charmingly and sing, made up
                        a group of friends which became very close. Presently intimacies sprang up only in this real,
                        instead of ending in marriage, they merely resulted in sex liberty. Thus Ethel Tuckerman became
                        the mistress of Lane Cross; an illicit attachment grew up between Irma Ottley and a young
                        society idler by the name of Bliss Bridge; and Gardner Knowles, ardently admiring Stephanie
                        Platow, literally seized upon her one afternoon in her own home, when he went ostensibly to
                        interview her, and overpersuaded her. She was only reasonably fond of him not in love; but,
                        being generous, nebulous, passionate, emotional, inexperienced, voiceless, and vainly curious,
                        without any sense of the meums and teums that govern society in such matters, she allowed this
                        rather brutal thing to happen. She was not a cowardwas too nebulous and yet forceful to be such.
                        Her parents never knew. And once so launched, another worldthat of sex satisfactionbegan to dawn
                        on her.
                    Were these young people evil? Let the social philosopher answer. One thing is
                        certain: They did not establish homes and raise children. On the contrary, they led a gay,
                        butterfly existence for nearly two years; then came a  rift in the lute. Quarrels developed over parts, respective degrees of
                        ability, and leadership. Ethel Tuckerman fell out with Lane Cross, because she discovered him
                        making love to Irma Ottley. Irma and Bliss Bridge released each other, the latter transferring
                        his affections to Georgia Timberlake. Stephanie Platow, by far the most individual of them all,
                        developed a strange inconsequence as to her deeds. It was when she was drawing near the age of
                        twenty that the affair with Gardner Knowles began. After a time Lane Cross, with his somewhat
                        earnest attempt at artistic interpretation and his superiority in the matter of yearshe was
                        forty, and young Knowles only twenty-fourseemed more interesting to Stephanie, and he was quick
                        to respond. There followed an idle, passionate union with this man, which seemed important, but
                        was not so at all. And then it was that Stephanie began dimly to perceive that it was on and on
                        that the blessings lie, that somewhere there might he some man much more remarkable than either
                        of these; but this was only a dream. She thought of Cowperwood at times; but he seemed to her to
                        be too wrapped up in grim tremendous things, far apart from this romantic world of amateur
                        dramatic in which she was involved.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    AIRS FROM THE ORIENT
                    COWPERWOOD gained his first real impression of Stephanie at the Garrick Players,
                        where he went with Aileen once to witness a performance of "Elektra." He liked
                        Stephanie particularly in this part, and thought her beautiful. One evening not long afterward
                        he noticed her in his own home looking at his jades, particularly a row of bracelets and
                        ear-rings. He liked the rhythmic outline of her body, which reminded him of a letter S in
                        motion. Quite suddenly it came over him that she was a remarkable girlverydestined, perhaps, to
                        some significant future. At the same time Stephanie was thinking of him.
                    "Do you find them interesting?" he asked, stopping beside her.
                    "I think they're wonderful. Those dark-greens, and that pale, fatty
                        white! I can see how beautiful they would be in a Chinese setting. I have always wished we could
                        find a Chinese or Japanese play to produce sometime."
                    "Yes, with your black hair those ear-rings would look well," said
                        Cowperwood.
                    He had never deigned to comment on a feature of hers before. She turned her dark,
                        brown-black eyes on himvelvety eyes with a kind of black glow in themand now he noticed how
                        truly fine they were, and how nice were her handsbrown almost as a Malay's.
                    He said nothing more; but the next day an unlabeled box was delivered to Stephanie at
                        her home containing a pair of jade ear-rings, a bracelet, and a brooch with Chinese characters
                        intagliated. Stephanie was beside herself with delight. She gathered them up in her hands and
                        kissed them, fastening the ear-rings in her ears and adjusting the bracelet and ring. Despite
                        her experience with her friends  and relatives, her
                        stage associates, and her paramours, she was still a little unschooled in the world. Her heart
                        was essentially poetic and innocent. No one had her much of anythingnot even her parents. Her
                        allowance thus far in life had been a pitiful six dollars a week outside of her clothing. As she
                        surveyed these pretty things m the privacy of her room she wondered oddly whether Cowperwood was
                        growing to like her. Would such a strong, hard business man be interested in her? She had heard
                        her father say he was becoming very rich. Was she a great actress, as some said she was, and
                        would strong, able types of men like Cowperwood take to hereventually? She had heard of Rachel,
                        of Nell Gwynne, of the divine Sarah and her loves. She took the precious gifts and locked them
                        in a black-iron box which was sacred to her trinkets and her secrets.
                    The mere acceptance of these things in silence was sufficient indication to
                        Cowperwood that she was of a friendly turn of mind. He waited patiently until one day a letter
                        came to his officenot his houseaddressed, "Frank Algernon Cowperwood,
                        Personal." It was written in a small, neat, careful hand, almost printed.
                    I don't know how to thank you for your wonderful present, I didn't
                        mean you should give them to me, and I know you sent them. I shall keep them with pleasure and
                        wear them with delight. It was so nice of you to do this.
                    Stephanie Platow.
                    Cowper wood studied the handwriting, the paper, the phraseology. For a girl of only a
                        little over twenty this was wise and reserved and tactful. She might have written to him at his
                        residence. He gave her the benefit of a week's time, and then found her in his own home
                        one Sunday afternoon. Aileen had gone calling, and Stephanie was pretending to await her return.
                    "It's nice to see you there in that window," he said.
                    "You fit your background perfectly."
                    "Do I?" The black-brown eyes burned soulfully. The panneling back
                        of her was of dark oak, burnished by the rays of an afternoon winter sun.
                    Stephanie Platow had dressed for this opportunity. Her  full, rich, short black hair was caught by a childish band of blood-red
                        ribbon, holding it low over her temples and ears. Her lithe body, so harmonious in its graven
                        roundness, was clad in an apple-green bodice, and a black skirt with gussets of red about the
                        hem; her smooth arms, from the elbows down, were bare. On one wrist was the jade bracelet he had
                        given her. Her stockings were apple-green silk, and, despite the chill of the day, her feet were
                        shod in enticingly low slippers with brass buckles.
                    Cowperwood retired to the hall to hang up his overcoat and came back smiling.
                    "Isn't Mrs. Cowper wood about?"
                    "The butler says she's out calling, but I thought I'd wait
                        a little while, anyhow. She may come back."
                    She turned up a dark, smiling face to him, with languishing, inscrutable eyes, and he
                        recognized the artist at last, full and clear.
                    "I see you like my bracelet, don't you?"
                    "It's beautiful," she replied, looking down and surveying
                        it dreamily. "I don't always wear it. I carry it in my muff. I've
                        just put it on for a little while. I carry them all with me always. I love them so. I like to
                        feel them."
                    She opened a small chamois bag beside herlying with her handkerchief and a
                        sketch-book which she always carriedand took out the ear-rings and brooch.
                    Cowper wood glowed with a strange feeling of approval and enthusiasm at this
                        manifestation of real interest. He liked jade himself very much, but more than that the feeling
                        that prompted this expression in another. Roughly speaking, it might have been said of him that
                        youth and hope in womenparticularly youth when combined with beauty and ambition in a
                        girltouched him. He responded keenly to her impulse to do or be something in this world,
                        whatever it might be, and he looked on the smart, egoistic vanity of so many with a kindly,
                        tolerant, almost parental eye. Poor little organisms growing on the tree of lifethey would burn
                        out and fade soon enough. He did not know the ballad of the roses of yesteryear, but if he had
                        it would have appealed to him. He did not care to rifle them, willy-nilly; but should their
                        temperaments or tastes  incline them in his
                        direction, they would not suffer vastly in their lives because of him. The fact was, the man was
                        essentially generous where women were concerned.
                    "How nice of you!" he commented, smiling. "I like
                        that." And then, seeing a note-book and pencil beside her, he asked, "What are
                        you doing?"
                    "Just sketching."
                    "It's nothing much," she replied, deprecatingly.
                        "I don't draw very well."
                    "Gifted girl!" he replied, picking it up. "Paints, draws,
                        carves on wood, plays, sings, acts."
                    "All rather badly," she sighed, turning her head languidly and
                        looking away. In her sketch-book she had put all of her best drawings; there were sketches of
                        nude women, dancers, torsos, bits of running figures, sad, heavy, sensuous heads and necks of
                        sleeping girls, chins up, eyelids down, studies of her brothers and sister, and of her father
                        and mother.
                    "Delightful!" exclaimed Cowper wood, keenly alive to a new
                        treasure. Good heavens, where had been his eyes all this while? Here was a jewel lying at his
                        doorstepinnocent, untarnisheda real jewel. These drawings suggested a fire of perception,
                        smoldering and somber, which thrilled him.
                    "These are beautiful to me, Stephanie," he said, simply, a strange,
                        uncertain feeling of real affection creeping over him. The man's greatest love was for
                        art. It was hypnotic to him. "Did you ever study art?" he asked.
                    "No."
                    "And you never studied acting?"
                    "No."
                    She shook her head in a slow, sad, enticing way. The black hair concealing her ears
                        moved him strangely.
                    "I know the art of your stage work is real, and you have a natural art which
                        I just seem to see. What has been the matter with me, anyhow?"
                    "Oh no," she sighed. "It seems to me that I merely play at
                        everything. I could cry sometimes when I think how I go on."
                    "At twenty?"
                    
                    "That is old enough," she smiled, archly.
                    "Stephanie," he asked, cautiously, "how old are you,
                        exactly?"
                    "I will be twenty-one in April," she answered.
                    "Have your parents been very strict with you?"
                    She shook her head dreamily. "No; what makes you ask? They haven't
                        paid very much attention to me. They've always liked Lucille and Gilbert and Ormond
                        best." Her voice had a plaintive, neglected ring. It was the voice she used in her best
                        scenes on the stage.
                    "Don't they realize that you are very talented?"
                    "I think perhaps my mother feels that I may have some ability. My father
                        doesn't, I'm sure. Why?"
                    She lifted those languorous, plaintive eyes.
                    "Why, Stephanie, if you want to know, I think you're wonderful. I
                        thought so the other night when you were looking at those jades. It all came over me. You are an
                        artist, truly, and I have been so busy I have scarcely seen it. Tell me one thing."
                    "Yes."
                    She drew in a soft breath, filling her chest and expanding her bosom, while she
                        looked at him from under her black hair. Her hands were crossed idly in her lap. Then she looked
                        demurely down.
                    "Look, Stephanie! Look up! I want to ask you something. You have known
                        something of me for over a year. Do you like me?"
                    "I think you're very wonderful," she murmured.
                    "Is that all?"
                    "Isn't that much?" she smiled, shooting a dull, black-opal
                        look in his direction.
                    "You wore my bracelet to-day. Were you very glad to get it?"
                    "Oh yes," she sighed, with aspirated breath, pretending a kind of
                        suffocation.
                    "How beautiful you really are!" he said, rising and looking down at
                        her.
                    She shook her head.
                    "No."
                    "Yes!"
                    "No."
                    
                    "Come, Stephanie! Stand by me and look at me. You are so tall and slender
                        and graceful. You are like something out of Asia."
                    She sighed, turning in a sinuous way, as he slipped his arm a bout her.
                    "I don't think we should, should we?" she asked,
                        na$iUvely, after a moment, pulling away from him.
                    "Stephanie!"
                    "I think I'd better go, now, please."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    LOVE AND WAR
                    IT was during the earlier phases of his connection with Chicago street-railways that
                        Cowperwood, ardently interesting himself in Stephanie Platow, developed as serious a sex affair
                        as any that had yet held him. At once, after a few secret interviews with her, he adopted his
                        favorite ruse in such matters and established bachelor quarters in the down-town section as a
                        convenient meeting-ground. Several conversations with Stephanie were not quite as illuminating
                        as they might have been, for, wonderful as she wasa kind of artistic godsend in this dull
                        Western atmosphereshe was also enigmatic and elusive, very. He learned speedily, in talking with
                        her on several days when they met for lunch, of her dramatic ambitions, and of the seeming
                        spiritual and artistic support she required from some one who would have faith in her and
                        inspire her by his or her confidence. He learned all about the Garrick Players, her home
                        intimacies and friends, the growing quarrels in the dramatic organization. He asked her, as they
                        sat in a favorite and inconspicuous resort of his finding, during one of those moments when
                        blood and not intellect was ruling between them, whether she had ever
                    "Once," she na$iUvely admitted.
                    It was a great shock to Cowperwood. He had fancied her refreshingly innocent. But she
                        explained it was all so accidental, so unintentional on her part, very. She described it all so
                        gravely, soulfully, pathetically, with such a brooding, contemplative backward searching of the
                        mind, that he was astonished and in a way touched. What a pity! It was Gardner Knowles who had
                        done this, she admitted. But he was not very much to blame, either. It just happened. She had
                        tried to protest, but Wasn't  she angry?
                        Yes, but then she was sorry to do anything to hurt Gardner Knowles. He was such a charming boy,
                        and he had such a lovely mother and sister, and the like.
                    Cowperwood was astonished. He had reached that point in life where the absence of
                        primal innocence in a woman was not very significant; but in Stephanie, seeing that she was so
                        utterly charming, it was almost too bad. He thought what fools the Platows must be to tolerate
                        this art atmosphere for Stephanie without keeping a sharp watch over it. Nevertheless, he was
                        inclined to believe from observation thus far that Stephanie might be hard to watch. She was
                        ingrainedly irresponsible, apparentlyso artistically nebulous, so non-self-protective. To go on
                        and be friends with this scamp! And yet she protested that never after that had there been the
                        least thing between them. Cowperwood could scarcely believe it. She must be lying, and yet he
                        liked her so. The very romantic, inconsequential way in which she narrated all this staggered,
                        amused, and even fascinated hem.
                    "But, Stephanie," he argued, curiously, "there must have
                        been some aftermath to all this. What happened? What did you do?"
                    "Nothing." She shook her head.
                    He had to smile.
                    "But oh, don't let's talk about it!" she pleaded.
                        "I don't want to. It hurts me. There was nothing more."
                    She sighed, and Cowperwood meditated. The evil was now done, and the best that he
                        could do, if he cared for her at alland he didwas to overlook it. He surveyed her oddly,
                        wonderingly. What a charming soul she was, anyhow! How na$iUvehow brooding! She had artlots of
                        it. Did he want to give her up?
                    As he might have known, it was dangerous to trifle with a type of this kind,
                        particularly once awakened to the significance of promiscuity, and unless mastered by some
                        absorbing passion. Stephanie had had too much flattery and affection heaped upon her in the past
                        two years to be easily absorbed. Nevertheless, for the time being, anyhow, she was fascinated by
                        the significance of Cowperwood. It was wonderful to have so fine, so powerful a man care for
                        her. She conceived of him as a very great artist in 
                        his realm rather than as a business man, and he grasped this fact after a very little while and
                        appreciated it. To his delight, she was even more beautiful physically than he had anticipated a
                        smoldering, passionate girl who met him with a fire which, though somber, quite rivaled his own.
                        She was different, too, in her languorous acceptance of all that he bestowed from any one he had
                        ever known. She was as tactful as Rita Sohlbergmore sobut so preternaturally silent at times.
                    "Stephanie," he would exclaim, "do talk. What are you
                        thinking of? You dream like an African native."
                    She merely sat and smiled in a dark way or sketched or modeled him. She was
                        constantly penciling something, until moved by the fever of her blood, when she would sit and
                        look at him or brood silently, eyes down. Then, when he would reach for her with seeking hands,
                        she would sigh, "Oh yes, oh yes!"
                    Those were delightful days with Stephanie.
                    In the matter of young MacDonald's request for fifty thousand dollors in
                        securities, as well as the attitude of the other editorsHyssop, Braxton, Ricketts, and so onwho
                        had proved subtly critical, Cowperwood conferred with Addison and McKenty.
                    "A likely lad, that," commented McKenty, succintly, when he heard
                        it. "He'll do better than his father in one way, anyhow. He'll
                        probably make more money."
                    McKenty had seen old General MacDonald just once in his life, and liked him.
                    "I should like to know what the General would think of that if he
                        knew," commented Addison, who admired the old editor greatly. "I'm
                        afraid he wouldn't sleep very well."
                    There is just one thing, observed Cowperwood, thoughtfully. "This young man
                        will certainly come into control of the Inquirer sometime. He
                        looks to me like some one who would not readily forget an injury." He smiled
                        sardonically. So did McKenty and Addison.
                    "Be that as it may," suggested the latter, "he
                        isn't editor yet." McKenty, who never revealed his true views to any one but
                        Cowperwood, waited until he had the latter alone to observe:
                    
                    "What can they do? Your request is a reasonable one. Why shouldn't
                        the city give you the tunnel? It's no good to any one as it is. And the loop is no more
                        than the other roads have now. I'm thinking it's the Chicago City Railway and
                        that silk-stocking crowd in State Street or that gas crowd that's talking against you.
                        I've heard them before. Give them what they want, and it's a fine moral cause.
                        Give it to any one else, and there's something wrong with it. It's little
                        attention I pay to them. We have the council. Let it pass the ordinances. It can't be
                        proved that they don't do it willingly. The mayor is a sensible man. He'll
                        sign them. Let young MacDonald talk if he wants to. If he says too much you can talk to his
                        father. As for Hyssop, he's an old grandmother anyhow. I've never known him to
                        be for a public improvement yet that was really good for Chicago unless Schryhart or Merrill or
                        Arneel or some one else of that crowd wanted it. I know them of old. My advice is to go ahead
                        and never mind them. To hell with them! Things will be sweet enough, once you are as powerful as
                        they are. They'll get nothing in the future without paying for it. It's little
                        enough they've ever done to further anything that I wanted."
                    Cowperwood, however, remained cool and thoughtful. Should he pay young MacDonald? he
                        asked himself. Addison knew of no influence that he could bring to bear. Finally, after much
                        thought, he decided to proceed as he had planned. Consequently, the reporters around the City
                        Hall and the council-chamber, who were in touch with Alderman Thomas Dowling, McKenty's
                        leader on the floor of council, and those who called occasionally quite regularly, in factat the
                        office of the North Chicago Street Railway Company, Cowperwood's comfortable new
                        offices in the North Side, were now given to understand that two ordinancesone granting the free
                        use of the La Salle Street tunnel for an unlimited period (practically a gift of it), and
                        another granting a right of way in La Salle, Munroe, Dearborn, and Randolph streets for the
                        proposed loopwould be introduced in council very shortly. Cowperwood granted a very flowery
                        interview, in which he explained quite enthusiastically all that the North Chicago company was
                        doing and proposed to do, and made clear  what a
                        splendid development it would assure to the North Side and to the business center.
                    At once Schryhart, Merrill, and some individuals connected with the Chicago West
                        Division Company, began to complain in the newspaper offices and at the clubs to Ricketts,
                        Braxton, young MacDonald, and the other editors. Envy of the pyrotechnic progress of the man was
                        as much a factor in this as anything else. It did not make the slightest difference, as
                        Cowperwood had sarcastically pointed out, that every other corporation of any significance in
                        Chicago had asked and received without money and without price. Somehow his career in connection
                        with Chicago gas, his venturesome, if unsuccessful effort to enter Chicago society, his
                        self-acknowledged Philadelphia record, rendered the sensitive cohorts of the ultra-conservative
                        exceedingly fearful. In Schryhart's Chronicle appeared a
                        news column which was headed, "Plain Grab of City Tunnel Proposed." It was a
                        very truculent statement, and irritated Cowperwood greatly. The Press (Mr. Haguenin's paper), on the other hand, was most cordial to the idea of
                        the loop, while appearing to be a little uncertain as to whether the tunnel should be granted
                        without compensation or not. Editor Hyssop felt called upon to insist that something more than
                        merely nominal compensation should be made for the tunnel, and that "riders"
                        should be inserted in the loop ordinance making it incumbent upon the North Chicago company to
                        keep those thoroughfares in full repair and well lighted. The Inquirer, under Mr. MacDonald, junior, and Mr. Du Bois, was in rumbling opposition. No
                        free tunnels, it cried; no free ordinances for privileges in the down-town heart. It had nothing
                        to say about Cowperwood personally. The Globe, Mr.
                        Braxton's paper, was certain that no free rights to the tunnel should be given, and
                        that a much better route for the loop could be foundone larger and more serviceable to the
                        public, one that might be made to include State Street or Wabash Avenue, or both, where Mr.
                        Merrill's store was located. So it went, and one could see quite clearly to what extent
                        the interests of the public figured in the majority of these particular viewpoints.
                    Cowperwood, individual, reliant, utterly indifferent to  opposition of any kind, was somewhat angered by the manner in which his
                        overtures had been received, but still felt that the best way out of his troubles was to follow
                        MeKenty's advice and get power first. Once he had his cable-conduit down, his new cars
                        running, the tunnel rebuilt, brilliantly lighted, and the bridge crush disposed of, the public
                        would see what a vast change for the better had been made and would support him. Finally all
                        things were in readiness and the ordinance jammed through. McKenty, being a little dubious of
                        the outcome, had a rocking-chair brought into the council-chamber itself during the hours when
                        the ordinances were up for consideration. In this he sat, presumably as a curious spectator,
                        actually as a master dictating the course of liquidation in hand. Neither Cowperwood nor any one
                        else knew of MeKenty's action until too late to interfere withit. Addison and Videra,
                        when they read about it as sneeringly set forth in the news columns of the papers, lifted and
                        then wrinkled their eyebrows.
                    "That looks like pretty rough work to me," commented Addison.
                        "I thought McKenty had more tact. That's his early Irish training."
                    Alexander Rambaud, who was an admirer and follower of Cowperwood's, wondered
                        whether the papers were lying, whether it really could be true that Cowperwood had a serious
                        political compact with McKenty which would allow him to walk rough-shod over public opinion.
                        Rambaud considered Cowperwood's proposition so sane and reasonable that he could not
                        understand why there should be serious opposition, or why Cowperwood and McKenty should have to
                        resort to such methods.
                    However, the streets requisite for the loop were granted. The tunnel was leased for
                        nine hundred and ninety-nine years at the nominal sum of five thousand dollars per year. It was
                        understood that the old bridges over State, Dearborn, and Clark streets should be put in repair
                        or removed; but there was "a joker" inserted elsewhere which nullified this.
                        Instantly there were stormy outbursts in the Chronicle, Inquirer,
                        and Globe: but Cowperwood, when he read them, merely smiled.
                        "Let them grumble," he said to himself. "I put a very reasonable
                        proposition before them. Why should they complain? I'm doing more now than the  Chicago City Railway. It's jealousy,
                        that's all. If Schryhart or Merrill had asked for it, there would have been no
                        complaint."
                    McKenty called at the offices of the Chicago Trust Company to congratulate
                        Cowperwood. "The boys did as I thought they would," he said. "I had
                        to be there, though, for I heard some one say that about ten of them intended to ditch us at the
                        last moment."
                    "Good work, good work!" replied Cowperwood, cheerfully.
                        "This row will all blow over. It would be the same whenever we asked. The air will
                        clear up. We'll give them such a fine service that they'll forget all about
                        this, and be glad they gave us the tunnel."
                    Just the same, the morning after the enabling ordinances had passed, there was much
                        derogatory comment in influential quarters. Mr. Norman Schryhart, who, through his publisher,
                        had been fulminating defensively against Cowperwood, stared solemnly at Mr. Ricketts when they
                        met.
                    "Well," said the magnate, who imagined he foresaw a threatened
                        attack on his Chicago City Street Railway preserves, "I see our friend Mr. Cowperwood
                        has managed to get his own way with the council. I am morally certain he uses money to get what
                        he is after as freely as a fireman uses water. He's as slippery as an eel. I should be
                        glad if we could establish that there is a community of interest between him and these
                        politicians around City Hall, or between him and Mr. McKenty. I believe he has set out to
                        dominate this city politically as well as financially, and he'll need constant
                        watching. If public opinion can be aroused against him he may be dislodged in the course of
                        time. Chicago may get too uncomfortable for him. I know Mr. McKenty personally, but he is not
                        the kind of man I care to do business with."
                    Mr. Schryhart's method of negotiating at City Hall was through certain
                        reputable but somewhat slow-going lawyers who were in the employ of the South Side company. They
                        had never been able to reach Mr. McKenty at all. Ricketts echoed a hearty approval.
                        "You're very right," he said, with owlish smugness, adjusting a
                        waistcoat button that had come loose, and smoothing his cuffs. "He's a prince
                        of politicians. We'll have to look sharp if we ever  trap him." Mr. Ricketts would have been glad to sell out to Mr.
                        Cowperwood, if he had not been so heavily obligated to Mr. Schryhart. He had no especial
                        affection for Cowperwood, but he recognized in him a coming man.
                    Young MacDonald, talking to Clifford Du Bois in the office of the Inquirer, and reflecting how little his private telephone message had
                        availed him, was in a waspish, ironic frame of mind.
                    "Well," he said, "it seems our friend Cowperwood
                        hasn't taken our advice. He may make his mark, but the Inquirer isn't through with him by a long shot. He'll be wanting
                        other things from the city in the future."
                    Clifford Du Bois regarded his acid young superior with a curious eye. He knew nothing
                        of MacDonald's private telephone message to Cowperwood; but he knew how he himself
                        would have dealt with the crafty financier had he been in MacDonald's position.
                    "Yes, Cowperwood is shrewd," was his comment. "Pritchard,
                        our political man, says the ways of the City Hall are greased straight up to the mayor and
                        McKenty, and that Cowperwood can have anything he wants at any time. Tom Dowling eats out of his
                        hand, and you know what that means. Old General Van Sickle is working for him in some way. Did
                        you ever see that old buzzard flying around if there wasn't something dead in the
                        woods?"
                    "He's a slick one," remarked MacDonald. "But as
                        for Cowperwood, he can't get away with this sort of thing very long. He's
                        going too fast. He wants too much."
                    Mr. Du Bois smiled quite secretly. It amused him to see how Cowperwood had brushed
                        MacDonald and his objections asidedispensed for the time being with the services of the Inquirer. Du Bois confidently believed that if the old General
                        had been at home he would have supported the financier.
                    Within eight months after seizing the La Salle Street tunnel and gobbling four of the
                        principal down-town streets for his loop, Cowperwood turned his eyes toward the completion of
                        the second part of the programmethat of taking over the Washington Street tunnel and the Chicago
                        West Division Company, which was still drifting along  under its old horse-car r$eAgime. It was the story of the North Side company all over again.
                        Stockholders of a certain typethe averageare extremely nervous, sensitive, fearsome. They are
                        like that peculiar bivalve, the clam, which at the slightest sense of untoward pressure
                        withdraws into its shell and ceases all activity. The city tax department began by instituting
                        proceedings against the West Division company, compelling them to disgorge various unpaid
                        street-car taxes which had hitherto been conveniently neglected. The city highway department was
                        constantly jumping on them for neglect of street repairs. The city water department, by some
                        hocus-pocus, made it its business to discover that they had been stealing water. On the other
                        hand were the smiling representatives of Cowperwood, Kaffrath, Addison, Videra, and others,
                        approaching one director or stockholder after another with glistening accounts of what a
                        splendid day would set in for the Chicago West Division Company if only it would lease fifty-one
                        per cent. of its holdingsfifty-one per cent. of twelve hundred and fifty shares, par value two
                        hundred dollarsfor the fascinating sum of six hundred dollars per share, and thirty per cent.
                        interest on all stock not assumed.
                    Who could resist? Starve and beat a dog on the one hand; wheedle, pet, and hold meat
                        in front of it on the other, and it can soon be brought to perform. Cowperwood knew this. His
                        emissaries for good and evil were tireless. In the endand it was not long in comingthe directors
                        and chief stockholders of the Chicago West Division Company succumbed; and then, lo! the sudden
                        leasing by the Chicago West Division Company of all its property to the North Chicago Street
                        Railway Company, lessee in turn of the Chicago City Passenger Railway, a line which Cowperwood
                        had organized to take over the Washington Street tunnel. How had he accomplished it? The
                        question was on the tip of every financial tongue. Who were the men or the organization
                        providing the enormous sums necessary to pay six hundred dollars per share for six hundred and
                        fifty shares of the twelve hundred and fifty belonging to the old West Division company, and
                        thirty per cent. per year on all the remainder? Where was the money coming from to cable all
                        these lines? It was  simple enough if they had only
                        thought. Cowperwood was merely capitalizing the future.
                    Before the newspapers or the public could suitably protest, crowds of men were at
                        work day and night in the business heart of the city, their flaring torches and resounding
                        hammers making a fitful bedlamic world of that region; they were laying the first great cable
                        loop and repairing the La Salle Street tunnel. It was the same on the North and West Sides,
                        where concrete conduits were being laid, new grip and trailer cars built, new car-barns erected,
                        and large, shining power-houses put up. The city, so long used to the old bridge delays, the
                        straw-strewn, stoveless horse-cars on their jumping rails, was agog to see how fine this new
                        service would be. The La Salle Street tunnel was soon aglow with white plaster and electric
                        lights. The long streets and avenues of the North Side were threaded with concrete-lined
                        conduits and heavy street-rails. The powerhouses were completed and the system was started, even
                        while the contracts for the changes on the West Side were being let.
                    Schryhart and his associates were amazed at this swiftness of action, this dizzy
                        phantasmagoria of financial operations. It looked very much to the conservative traction
                        interests of Chicago as if this young giant out of the East had it in mind to eat up the whole
                        city. The Chicago Trust Company, which he, Addison, McKenty, and others had organized to
                        manipulate the principal phases of the local bond issues, and of which he was rumored to be in
                        control, was in a flourishing condition. Apparently he could now write his check for millions,
                        and yet he was not beholden, so far as the older and more conservative multimillionaires of
                        Chicago were concerned, to any one of them. The worst of it was that this Cowperwoodan upstart,
                        a jail-bird, a stranger whom they had done their best to suppress financially and ostracize
                        socially, had now become an attractive, even a sparkling figure in the eyes of the Chicago
                        public. His views and opinions on almost any topic were freely quoted; the newspapers, even the
                        most antagonistic, did not dare to neglect him. Their owners were now fully alive to the fact
                        that a new financial rival had appeared who was worthy of their steel.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    A FINANCIER BEWITCHED
                    IT was interesting to note how, able though he was, and bound up with this vast
                        street-railway enterprise which was beginning to affect several thousand men, his mind could
                        find intense relief and satisfaction in the presence and actions of Stephanie Platow. It is not
                        too much to say that in her, perhaps, he found revivified the spirit and personality of Rita
                        Sohlberg. Rita, however, had not contemplated disloyaltyit had never occurred to her to be
                        faithless to Cowperwood so long as he was fond of her any more than for a long time it had been
                        possible for her, even after all his philanderings, to be faithless to Sohlberg. Stephanie, on
                        the other hand, had the strange feeling that affection was not necessarily identified with
                        physical loyalty, and that she could be fond of Cowperwood and still deceive hima fact which was
                        based on her lack as yet of a true enthusiasm for him. She loved him and she didn't.
                        Her attitude was not necessarily identified with her heavy, lizardish animality, though that had
                        something to do with it; but rather with a vague, kindly generosity which permitted her to feel
                        that it was hard to break with Gardner Knowles and Lane Cross after they had been so nice to
                        her. Gardner Knowles had sung her praises here, there, and everywhere, and was attempting to
                        spread her fame among the legitimate theatrical enterprises which came to the city in order that
                        she might be taken up and made into a significant figure. Lane Cross was wildly fond of her in
                        an inadequate way which made it hard to break with him, and yet certain that she would
                        eventually. There was still another mana young playwright and poet by the name of Forbes
                        Gurneytall, fair, passionatewho had newly arrived on the scene and was courting her, or, rather,
                        being  courted by her at odd moments, for her time
                        was her own. In her artistically errant way she had refused to go to school like her sister, and
                        was idling about, developing, as she phrased it, her artistic possibilities.
                    Cowperwood, as was natural, heard much of her stage life. At first he took all this
                        palaver with a grain of salt, the babbling of an ardent nature interested in the flighty romance
                        of the studio world. By degrees, however he became curious as to the freedom of her actions, the
                        ease with which she drifted from place to placeLane Cross's studio; Bliss
                        Bridge's bachelor rooms, where he appeared always to be receiving his theatrical
                        friends of the Garrick Players; Mr. Gardner Knowles's home on the near North Side,
                        where he was frequently entertaining a party after the theater. It seemed to Cowperwood, to say
                        the least, that Stephanie was leading a rather free and inconsequential existence, and yet it
                        reflected her exactlythe color of her soul. But he began to doubt and wonder.
                    "Where were you, Stephanie, yesterday?" he would ask, when they met
                        for lunch, or in the evenings early, or when she called at his new offices on the North Side, as
                        she sometimes did to walk or drive with him.
                    "Oh, yesterday morning I was at Lane Cross's studio trying on some
                        of his Indian shawls and veils. He has such a lot of those thingssome of the loveliest oranges
                        and blues. You just ought to see me in them. I wish you might."
                    "Alone?"
                    "For a while. I thought Ethel Tuckerman and Bliss Bridge would be there, but
                        they didn't come until later. Lane Cross is such a dear. He's sort of silly at
                        times, but I like him. His portraits are so bizarre.
                    She went off into a description of his pretentious but insignificant art.
                    Cowperwood marveled, not at Lane Cross's art nor his shawls, but at this
                        world in which Stephanie moved. He could not quite make her out. He had never been able to make
                        her explain satisfactorily that first single relationship with Gardner Knowles, which she
                        declared had ended so abruptly. Since then he had doubted, as was his nature; but this girl was
                        so sweet, childish, irreconcilable with her  self,
                        like a wandering breath of air, or a pale-colored flower, that he scarcely knew what to think.
                        The artistically inclined are not prone to quarrel with an enticing sheaf of flowers. She was
                        heavenly to him, coming in, as she did at times when he was alone, with bland eyes and yielding
                        herself in a kind of summery ecstasy. She had always something artistic to tell of storms,
                        winds, dust, clouds, smoke forms, the outline of buildings, the lake, the stage, She would
                        cuddle in his arms and quote long sections from "Romeo and Juliet,"
                        "Paolo and Francesca," "The Ring and the Book,"
                        Keats's "Eve of St. Agnes." He hated to quarrel with her, because she
                        was like a wild rose or some art form in nature. Her sketch-book was always full of new things.
                        Her muff, or the light silk shawl she wore in summer, sometimes concealed a modeled figure of
                        some kind which she would produce with a look like that of a doubting child, and if he wanted
                        it, if he liked it, he could have it. Cowperwood meditated deeply. He scarcely knew what to
                        think.
                    The constant atmosphere of suspicion and doubt in which he was compelled to remain,
                        came by degrees to distress and anger him. While she was with him she was clinging enough, but
                        when she was away she was ardently cheerful and happy. Unlike the station he had occupied in so
                        many previous affairs, he found himself, after the first little while, asking her whether she
                        loved him instead of submitting to the same question from her.
                    He thought that with his means, his position, his future possibilities he had the
                        power to bind almost any woman once drawn to his personality; but Stephanie was too young and
                        too poetic to be greatly impaired by wealth and fame, and she was not yet sufficiently gripped
                        by the lure of him. She loved him in her strange way; but she was interested also by the latest
                        arrival, Forbes Gurney. This tall, melancholy youth, with brown eyes and pale-brown hair, was
                        very poor. He hailed from southern Minnesota, and what between a penchant for journalism,
                        verse-writing, and some dramatic work, was somewhat undecided as to his future. His present
                        occupation was that of an instalment collector for a furniture company, which set him free, as a
                        rule, at three o'clock in the afternoon. He 
                        was trying, in a mooning way, to identify himself with the Chicago newspaper world, and was a
                        discovery of Gardner Knowles.
                    Stephanie had seen him about the rooms of the Garrick Players. She had looked at his
                        longish face with its aureole of soft, crinkly hair, his fine wide mouth, deep-set eyes, and
                        good nose, and had been touched by an atmosphere of wistfulness, or, let us say, life-hunger.
                        Gardner Knowles brought a poem of his once, which he had borrowed from him, and read it to the
                        company, Stephanie, Ethel Tuckerman, Lane Cross, and Irma Ottley assembled.
                    "Listen to this," Knowles had suddenly exclaimed, taking it out of
                        his pocket.
                    It concerned a garden of the moon with the fragrance of pale blossoms, a mystic pool,
                        some ancient figures of joy, a quavered Lucidian tune.
                    "With eerie flute and rhythmic thrum Of muted strings and beaten
                        drum."
                    Stephanie Platow had sat silent, caught by a quality that was akin to her own. She
                        asked to see it, and read it in silence.
                    "I think it's charming, she said.
                    Thereafter she hovered in the vicinity of Forbes Gurney. Why, she could scarcely say.
                        It was not coquetry. She just drew near, talked to him of stage work and her plays and her
                        ambitions. She sketched him as she had Cowperwood and others, and one day Cowperwood found three
                        studies of Forbes Gurney in her note-book idyllicly done, a note of romantic feeling about them.
                    "Who is this?" he asked.
                    "Oh, he's a young poet who comes up to the PlayersForbes Gurney.
                        He's so charming; he's so pale and dreamy."
                    Cowperwood contemplated the sketches curiously. His eyes clouded.
                    "Another one of Stephanie's adherents," he commented,
                        teasingly. "It's a long procession I've joined. Gardner Knowles, Lane
                        Cross, Bliss Bridge, Forbes Gurney."
                    Stephanie merely pouted moodily.
                    
                    "How you talk! Bliss Bridge, Gardner Knowles! I admit I like them all, but
                        that's all I do do. They're just sweet and dear. You'd like Lane
                        Cross yourself; he's such a foolish old Polly. As for Forbes Gurney, he just drifts up
                        there once in a while as one of the crowd. I scarcely know him."
                    "Exactly," said Cowperwood, dolefully; "but you sketch
                        him."
                    For some reason Cowperwood did not believe this. Back in his brain he did not believe
                        Stephanie at all, he did not trust her. Yet he was intensely fond of herthe more so, perhaps,
                        because of this.
                    "Tell me truly, Stephanie," he said to her one day, urgently, and
                        yet very diplomatically. "I don't care at all, so far as your past is
                        concerned. You and I are close enough to reach a perfect understanding. But you didn't
                        tell me the whole truth about you and Knowles, did you? Tell me truly now. I
                        sha'n't mind. I can understand well enough how it could have happened. It
                        doesn't make the least bit of difference to me, really."
                    Stephanie was off her guard for once, in no truly fencing mood She was troubled at
                        times about her various relations, anxious to put herself straight with Cowperwood or with any
                        one whom she truly liked. Compared to Cowperwood and his affairs, Cross and Knowles were
                        trivial, and yet Knowles was interesting to her. Compared to Cowperwood, Forbes Gurney was a
                        stripling beggar, and yet Gurney had what Cowperwood did not havea sad, poetic lure. He awakened
                        her sympathies. He was such a lonely boy. Cowperwood was so strong, brilliant, magnetic.
                    Perhaps it was with some idea of clearing up her moral status generally that she
                        finally said: "Well, I didn't tell you the exact truth about it, either. I was
                        a little ashamed to."
                    At the close of her confession, which involved only Knowles, and was incomplete at
                        that, Cowperwood burned with a kind of angry resentment. Why trifle with a lying prostitute?
                        That she was an inconsequential free lover at twenty-one was quite plain. And yet there was
                        something so strangely large about the girl, so magnetic, and she was so beautiful after her
                        kind, that he could not think of giving her up. [She reminded him of himself.]
                    
                    "Well, Stephanie," he said, [trampling under foot an impulse to
                        insult or rebuke and dismiss her,] "you are strange. Why didn't you tell me
                        this before? I have asked and asked. Do you really mean to say that you care for me at
                        all?"
                    "How can you ask that?" she demanded, reproachfully, feeling that
                        she had been rather foolish in confessing. Perhaps she would lose him now, and she did not want
                        to do that. Because his eyes blazed with a jealous hardness she burst into tears. "Oh,
                        I wish I had never told you! There is nothing to tell, anyhow. I never wanted to."
                    Cowperwood was nonplussed. He knew human nature pretty well, and woman nature; his
                        common sense told him that this girl was not to be trusted, and yet he was drawn to her. Perhaps
                        she was not lying, and these tears were real.
                    "And you positively assure me that this was allthat there wasn't
                        any one else before, and no one since?"
                    Stephanie dried her eyes. They were in his private rooms in Randolph Street, the
                        bachelor rooms he had fitted for himself as a changing place for various affairs.
                    "I don't believe you care for me at all," she observed,
                        dolefully, reproachfully. "I don't believe you understand me. I don't
                        think you believe me. When I tell you how things are you don't understand. I
                        don't lie. I can't. If you are so doubting now, perhaps you had better not see
                        me any more. I want to be frank with you, but if you won't let me"
                    She paused heavily, gloomily, very sorrowfully, and Cowperwood surveyed her with a
                        kind of yearning. What an unreasoning pull she had for him! He did not believe her, and yet he
                        could not let her go.
                    "Oh, I don't know what to think," he commented, morosely.
                        "I certainly don't want to quarrel with you, Stephanie, "for telling
                        me the truth. Please don't deceive me. You are a remarkable girl. I can do so much for
                        you if you will let me. You ought to see that."
                    "But I'm not deceiving you," she repeated, wearily.
                        "I should think you could see."
                    "I believe you," he went on, trying to deceive himself against his
                        better judgment. "But you lead such a free, unconventional life."
                    
                    "Ah," thought Stephanie, "perhaps I talk too
                        much."
                    "I am very fond of you. You appeal to me so much.
                    "I love you, really. Don't deceive me. Don't run with all
                        these silly simpletons. They are really not worthy of you. I shall be able to get a divorce one
                        of these days, and then I would be glad to marry you."
                    "But I'm not running with them in the sense that you think.
                        They're not anything to me beyond mere entertainment. Oh, I like them, of course. Lane
                        Cross is a dear in his way, and so is Gardner Knowles. They have all been nice to me."
                    Cowperwood's gorge rose at her calling Lane Cross dear. It incensed him, and
                        yet he held his peace.
                    "Do give me your word that there will never be anything between you and any
                        of these men so long as you are friendly with me?" he almost pleadeda strange r$oCle
                        for him.; "I don't care to share you with any one else. I won't. I
                        don't mind what you have done in the past, but I don't want you to be
                        unfaithful in the future."
                    "What a question! Of course I won't. But if you don't
                        believe meoh, dear"
                    Stephanie sighed painfully, and Cowperwood's face clouded with angry though
                        well-concealed suspicion and jealousy.
                    "Well', I'll tell you, Stephanie, I believe you now.
                        I'm going to take your word. But if you do deceive me, and I should find it out, I will
                        quit you the same day. I do not care to share you with any one else. What I can't
                        understand, if you care for me, is how you can take so much interest in all these affairs? It
                        certainly isn't devotion to your art that's impelling you, is it?"
                    "Oh, are you going to go on quarreling with me?" asked Stephanie,
                        na$iUvely. "Won't you believe me when I say that I love you? Perhaps"
                        But here her histrionic ability came to her aid, and she sobbed violently.
                    Cowperwood took her in his arms. "Never mind;" he soothed.
                        "I do believe you. I do think you care for me. Only I wish you weren't such a
                        butterfly temperament, Stephanie."
                    So this particular lesion for the time being was healed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    THE EXPOSURE OF STEPHANIE
                    AT the same time the thought of readjusting her relations so that they would avoid
                        disloyalty to Cowperwood was never further from Stephanie's mind. Let no one quarrel
                        with Stephanie Platow. She was an unstable chemical compound, artistic to her finger-tips, not
                        understood or properly guarded by her family. Her interest in Cowperwood, his force and ability,
                        was intense. So was her interest in Forbes Gurneythe atmosphere of poetry that enveloped him.
                        She studied him curiously on the various occasions when they met, and, finding him bashful and
                        recessive, set out to lure him. She felt that he was lonely and depressed and poor, and her
                        womanly capacity for sympathy naturally bade her be tender.
                    Her end was easily achieved. One night, when they were all out in Bliss
                        Bridge's single-stickera fast-sailing saucerStephanie and Forbes Gurney sat forward of
                        the mast looking at the silver moon track which was directly ahead. The rest were in the cockpit
                        "cutting up" laughing and singing. It was very plain to all that Stephanie was
                        becoming interested in Forbes Gurney; and since he was charming and she wilful, nothing was done
                        to interfere with them, except to throw an occasional jest their way. Gurney, new to love and
                        romance, scarcely knew how to take his good fortune, how to begin. He told Stephanie of his home
                        life in the wheat-fields of the Northwest, how his family had moved from Ohio when he was three,
                        and how difficult were the labors he had always undergone. He had stopped in his plowing many a
                        day to stand under a tree and write a poemsuch as it wasor to watch the birds or to wish he
                        could go to college or to Chicago. She looked at him with dreamy eyes, her dark  skin turned a copper bronze in the moonlight, her
                        black hair irradiated with a strange, luminous grayish blue. Forbes Gurney, alive to beauty in
                        all its forms, ventured finally to touch her handshe of Knowles, Cross, and Cowperwoodand she
                        thrilled from head to toe. This boy was so sweet. His curly brown hair gave him a kind of Greek
                        innocence and aspect. She did not move, but waited, hoping he would do more.
                    "I wish I might talk to you as I feel," he finally said, hoarsely,
                        a catch in his throat.
                    She laid one hand on his.
                    "You dear!" she said.
                    He realized now that he might. A great ecstasy fell upon him. He smoothed her hand,
                        then slipped his arm about her waist, then ventured to kiss the dark cheek turned dreamily from
                        him. Artfully her head sunk to his shoulder, and he murmured wild nothingshow divine she was,
                        how artistic, how wonderful! With her view of things it could only end one way. She man$oEuvered
                        him into calling on her at her home, into studying her books and plays on the top-floor
                        sitting-room, into hearing her sing. Once fully in his arms, the rest was easy by suggestion. He
                        learned she was no longer innocent, and then
                    In the mean time Cowperwood mingled his speculations concerning large power-houses,
                        immense reciprocating engines, the problem of a wage scale for his now two thousand employees,
                        some of whom were threatening to strike, the problem of securing, bonding, and equipping the La
                        Salle Street tunnel and a down-town loop in La Salle, Munroe, Dearborn, and Randolph streets,
                        with mental inquiries and pictures as to what possibly Stephanie Platow might be doing. He could
                        only make appointments with her from time to time. He did not fail to note that, after he began
                        to make use of information she let drop as to her whereabouts from day to day and her free
                        companionship, he heard less of Gardner Knowles, Lane Cross, and Forbes Gurney, and more of
                        Georgia Timberlake and Ethel Tuckerman. Why this sudden reticence? On one occasion she did say
                        of Forbes Gurney "that he was having such a hard time, and that his clothes
                        weren't as nice as they should be, poor dear!" Stephanie herself, owing to
                        gifts  made to her by Cowperwood, was resplendent
                        these days. She took just enough to complete her wardrobe according to her taste.
                    "Why not send him to me?" Cowperwood asked. "I might find
                        something to do for him." He would have been perfectly willing to put him in some
                        position where he could keep track of his time. However, Mr. Gurney never sought him for a
                        position, and Stephanie ceased to speak of his poverty. A gift of two hundred dollars, which
                        Cowperwood made her in June, was followed by an accidental meeting with her and Gurney in
                        Washington Street. Mr. Gurney, pale and pleasant, was very well dressed indeed. He wore a pin
                        which Cowperwood knew had once belonged to Stephanie. She was in no way confused. Finally
                        Stephanie let it out that Lane Cross, who had gone to New Hampshire for the summer, had left his
                        studio in her charge. Cowperwood decided to have this studio watched.
                    There was in Cowperwood's employ at this time a young newspaper man, an
                        ambitious spark aged twenty-six, by the name of Francis Kennedy. He had written a very
                        intelligent article for the Sunday Inquirer, describing
                        Cowperwood and his plans, and pointing out what a remarkable man he was. This pleased
                        Cowperwood. When Kennedy called one day, announcing smartly that he was anxious to get out of
                        reportorial work, and inquiring whether he couldn't find something to do in the
                        street-railway world, Cowperwood saw in him a possibly useful tool.
                    "I'll try you out as secretary for a while," he said,
                        pleasantly. "There are a few special things I want done. If you succeed in those, I may
                        find something else for you later."
                    Kennedy had been working for him only a little while when he said to him one day:
                        "Francis, did you ever hear of a young man by the name of Forbes Gurney in the
                        newspaper world?"
                    They were in Coweperwood's private office.
                    "No, sir," replied Francis, briskly.
                    "You have heard of an organization called the Garrick Players,
                        haven't you?"
                    
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well, Francis, do you suppose you could undertake a little piece of
                        detective work for me, and handle it intelligently and quietly?"
                    "I think so," said Francis, who was the pink of perfection this
                        morning in a brown suit, garnet tie, and sard sieve-links. His shoes immaculately polished, and
                        his young, healthy face glistened.
                    "I'll tell you what I want you to do. There is a young actress, or
                        amateur actress, by the name of Stephanie Platow, who frequents the studio of an artist named
                        Cross in the New Arts Building. She may even occupy it in his absence I don't know. I
                        want you to find out for me what the relations of Mr. Gurney and this woman are. I have certain
                        business reasons for wanting to know."
                    Young Kennedy was all attention.
                    "You couldn't tell me where I could find out anything about this
                        Mr. Gurney to begin with, could you?" he asked.
                    "I think he is a friend of a critic here by the name of Gardner Knowles. You
                        might ask him. I need not say that you must never mention me."
                    "Oh, I understand that thoroughly, Mr. Cowperwood."
                    Young Kennedy departed, meditating. How was he to do this? With true journalistic
                        skill he first sought other newspaper men, from whom he learneda bit from one and a scrap from
                        anotherof the character of the Garrick Players, and of the women who belonged to it. He
                        pretended to be writing a one-act play, which he hoped to have produced.
                    He then visited Lane Cross's studio, posing as a newspaper interviewer. Mr.
                        Cross was out of town, so the elevator man said. His studio was closed.
                    Mr. Kennedy meditated on this fact for a moment.
                    "Does any one use his studio during the summer months?" he asked.
                    "I believe there is a young woman who comes here-yes."
                    "You don't happen to know who it is?"
                    "Yes, I do. Her name is Platow. What do you want to know for?"
                    
                    "Looky here," exclaimed Kennedy, surveying the rather shabby
                        attendant with a cordial and persuasive eye, "do you want to make some moneyfive or ten
                        dollars, and without any trouble to you?"
                    The elevator man, whose wages were exactly eight dollars a week, pricked up his ears.
                    "I want to know who comes here with this Miss Platow, when they comeall
                        about it. I'll make it fifteen dollars if I find out what I want, and I'll
                        give you five right now."
                    The elevator factotum had just sixty-five cents in his pocket at the time. He looked
                        at Kennedy with some un-certainty and much desire.
                    "Well what can I do?" he repeated. "I'm not here
                        after six. The janitor runs this elevator from six to twelve."
                    "There isn't a room vacant anywhere near this one, is
                        there?" Kennedy asked, speculatively.
                    The factotum thought. "Yes, there is. One just across the hall."
                    "What time does she come here as a rule?"
                    "I don't know anything about nights. In the day she sometimes comes
                        mornings, sometimes in the afternoon."
                    "Anybody with her?"
                    "Sometimes a man, sometimes a girl or two. I haven't really paid
                        much attention to her, to tell you the truth."
                    Kennedy walked away whistling.
                    From this day on Mr. Kennedy became a watcher over this very unconventional
                        atmosphere. He was in and out, principally observing the comings and goings of Mr. Gurney. He
                        found what he naturally suspected, that Mr. Gurney and Stephanie spent hours here at peculiar
                        timesafter a company of friends had jollified, for instance, and all had left, including Gurney,
                        when the latter would quietly return, with Stephanie sometimes, if she had left with the others,
                        alone if she had remained behind. The visits were of varying duration, and Kennedy, to be
                        absolutely accurate, kept days, dates, the duration of the hours, which he left noted in a
                        sealed envelope for Cowperwood in the morning. Cowperwood was enraged, but so great was his
                        interest in Stephanie that he was his interest in Stephanie that he was not prepared to act. He
                        wanted to see to what extent her duplicity would go.
                    
                    The novelty of this atmosphere and its effect on him was astonishing. Although his
                        mind was vigorously employed during the day, nevertheless his thoughts kept returning
                        constantly. Where was she? What was she doing? The bland way in which she could lie reminded him
                        of himself. To think that she should prefer any one else to him, especially at this time when he
                        was shining as a great constructive factor in the city, was too much. It smacked of age, his
                        ultimate displacement by youth. It cut and hurt.
                    One morning, after a peculiarly exasperating night of thought concerning her, he said
                        to young Kennedy: "I have a suggestion for you. I wish you would get this elevator man
                        you are working with down there to get you a duplicate key to this studio, and see if there is a
                        bolt on the inside. Let me know when you do. Bring me the key. The next time she is there of an
                        evening with Mr. Gurney step out and telephone me".
                    The climax came one night several weeks after this discouraging investigation began.
                        There was a heavy yellow moon in the sky, and a warm, sweet summer wind was blowing. Stephanie
                        had called on Cowperwood at his office about four to say that instead of staying down-town with
                        him, as they had casually planned, she was going to her home on the West Side to attend a
                        garden-party of some kind at Georgia Timberlake's. Cowperwood looked at her withfor
                        hima morbid eye. He was all cheer, geniality, pleasant badinage; but he was thinking all the
                        while what a shameless enigma she was, how well she played her part, what a fool she must take
                        him to be. He gave her youth, her passion, her attractiveness, her natural promiscuity of soul
                        due credit; but he could not forgive her for not loving him perfectly, as had so many others.
                        She had on a summery black-and-white frock and a fetching brown Leghorn hat, which, with a
                        rich-red poppy ornamenting a flare over her left ear and a peculiar ruching of white-and-black
                        silk about the crown, made her seem strangely young, debonair, a study in Hebraic and American
                        origins.
                    "Going to have a nice time, are you?" he asked, genially,
                        politically, eying her in his enigmatic and inscrutable way. "Going to shine among that
                        charming company you keep?
                    
                    I suppose all the standbys will be thereBliss Bridge, Mr. Knowles, Mr. crossdancing
                        attendance on you?
                    He failed to mention Mr. Gurney.
                    Stephanie nodded cheerfully. She seemed in an Innocent outing mood.
                    Cowperwood smiled, thinking how one of these daysvery shortly, perhapshe was certain
                        to take a signal revenge. He would catch her in a lie in a compromising position somewherein
                        this studio, perhapsand dismiss her with contempt. In an elder day, if they had lived in Turkey,
                        he would have had her strangled, sewn in a sack, and thrown into the Bosporus. As it was, he
                        could only dismiss her. He smiled and smiled, smoothing her hand. Have a good time," he
                        called, as she left. Later, at his own homeit was nearly midnightMr. Kennedy called him up.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood?"
                    "Yes."
                    "You know the studio in the New Arts Building?"
                    "Yes."
                    "It is occupied now."
                    Cowperwood called a servant to bring him his runabout. He had had a down-town
                        locksmith make a round key-stem with a bored clutch at the end of ita hollow which would fit
                        over the end of such a key as he had to the studio and turn it easily from the outside. He felt
                        in his pocket for it, jumped in his runabout, and hurried away. When he reached the New Arts
                        Building he found Kennedy in the hall and dismissed him. "Thanks," he
                        observed, brusquely.
                    "I will take care of this."
                    He hurried up the stairs, avoiding the elevator, to the vacant room opposite, and
                        thence reconnoitered the studio door. It was as Kennedy had reported. Stephanie was there, and
                        with Gurney. The pale poet had been brought there to furnish her an evening of delight. Because
                        of the stillness of the building at this hour he could hear their muffled voices speaking
                        alternately, and once Stephanie singing the refrain of a song. He was angry and yet grateful
                        that she had, in her genial way, taken the trouble to call and assure him that she was going to
                        a summer lawn-party and dance. He smiled grimly, sarcastically, as he thought  of her surprise. Softly he extracted the clutch-key
                        and inserted it, covering the end of the key on the inside and turning it. It gave solidly
                        without sound. He next tried the knob and turned it, feeling the door spring slightly as he did
                        so. Then inaudibly, because of a gurgled laugh with which he was thoroughly familiar, he opened
                        it and stepped in.
                    At his rough, firm cough they sprang upGurney to a hiding position behind a curtain,
                        Stephanie to one of concealment behind draperies on the couch. She could not speak, and could
                        scarcely believe that her eyes did not deceive her. Gurney, masculine and defiant, but by no
                        means well composed, demanded: "Who are you? What do you want here?"
                        Cowperwood replied very simply and smilingly: "Not very much. Perhaps Miss Platow there
                        will tell you." He nodded in her direction.
                    Stephanie, fixed by his cold, examining eye, shrank nervously, ignoring Gurney
                        entirely. The latter perceived on the instant that he had a previous liaison to deal withan
                        angry and outraged loverand he was not prepared to act either wisely or well.
                    "Mr. Gurney," said Cowperwood, complacently, after staring at
                        Stephanie grimly and scorching her with his scorn, "I have no concern with you, and do
                        not propose to do anything to disturb you or Miss Platow after a very few moments. I am not here
                        without reason. This young woman has been steadily deceiving me. She has lied to me frequently,
                        and pretended an innocence which I did not believe. To-night she told me she was to be at a
                        lawn-party on the West Side. She has been my mistress for months. I have given her money,
                        jewelry, whatever she wanted. Those jade ear-rings, by the way, are one of my gifts."
                        He nodded cheerfully in Stephanie's direction. "I have come here simply to
                        prove to her that she cannot lie to me any more. Heretofore, every time I have accused her of
                        things like this she has cried and lied. I do not know how much you know of her, or how fond you
                        are of her. I merely wish her, not you, or how know" and he turned and stared at
                        Stephanie"that the day of her lying to me is over."
                    During this very peculiar harangue Stephanie, who,  nervous, fearful, fixed, and yet beautiful, remained curled up in the corner
                        of the suggestive oriental divan, had been gazing at Cowperwood in a way which plainly attested,
                        trifle as she might with others, that she was nevertheless fond of himintensely so. His strong,
                        solid figure, confronting her so ruthlessly, gripped her imagination, of which she had a world.
                        She had managed to conceal her body in part, but her brown arms and shoulders, her bosom, trim
                        knees, and feet were exposed in part. Her black hair and na$iUve face were now heavy,
                        distressed, sad. She was frightened really, for Cowperwood at bottom had always overawed hera
                        strange, terrible, fascinating man. Now she sat and looked, seeking still to lure him by the
                        pathetic cast of her face and soul, while Cowperwood, scornful of her, and almost openly
                        contemptuous of her lover, and his possible opposition, merely stood smiling before them. It
                        came over her very swiftly now just what it was she was losinga grim, wonderful man. Beside him
                        Gurney, the pale poet, was rather thina mere breath of romance. She wanted to say something, to
                        make a plea; but it was so plain Cowperwood would have none of it, and, besides, here was
                        Gurney. Her throat clogged, her eyes filled, even here, and a mystical bog-fire state of emotion
                        succeeded the primary one of opposition. Cowperwood knew the look well. It gave him the only
                        sense of triumph he had.
                    "Stephanie," he remarked, "I have just one word to say to
                        you now. We will not meet any more, of course. You are a good actress. Stick to your profession.
                        You may shine in it if you do not merge it too completely with your loves. As for being a free
                        lover, it isn't incompatible with what you are, perhaps, but it isn't socially
                        advisable for you. Good night."
                    He turned and walked quickly out.
                    "Oh, Frank," called Stephanie, in a strange, magnetized, despairing
                        way, even in the face of her astonished lover. Gurney stared with his mouth open.
                    Cowperwood paid no heed. Out he went through the dark hall and down the stairs. For
                        once the lure of a beautiful, enigmatic, immoral, and promiscuous woman poison flower though she
                        waswas haunting him.
                    "D her!" he exclaimed. "D the little beast, anyhow!  The-! The-!" He used terms so hard, so
                        vile, so sad, all because he knew for once what it was to love and loseto want ardently in his
                        way and not to havenow or ever after. He was determined that his path and that of Stephanie
                        Platow should never be allowed
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    A FAMILY QUARREL
                    IT chanced that shortly before this liaison was broken off, some troubling
                        information was quite innocently conveyed to Aileen by Stephanie Platow's own mother.
                        One day Mrs. Platow, in calling on Mrs. Cowperwood, commented on the fact that Stephanie was
                        gradually improving in her art, that the Garrick Players had experienced a great deal of
                        trouble, and that Stephanie was shortly to appear m a new r$oClesomething Chinese.
                    "That was such a charming set of jade you gave her," she
                        volunteered, genially. "I only saw it the other day for the first time. She never told
                        me about it before. She prizes it so very highly, that I feel as though I ought to thank you
                        myself."
                    Aileen opened her eyes. "Jade!" she observed, curiously.
                        "Why, I don't remember." Recalling Cowperwood's Her face
                        showed her perplexity.
                    "Why, yes," replied Mrs. Platow, Aileen's show of surprise
                        troubling her. "The ear-rings and necklet, you know. She said you gave them to
                        her."
                    "To be sure," answered Aileen, catching herself as by a hair.
                        "I do recall it now. But it was Frank who really gave them. I hope she likes
                        them."
                    She smiled sweetly.
                    "She thinks they're beautiful, and they do become her,"
                        continued Mrs. Platow, pleasantly, understanding it all, as she fancied. The truth was that
                        Stephanie, having forgotten, had left her make-up box open one day at home, and her mother,
                        rummaging in her room for something, had discovered them and genially confronted her with them,
                        for she knew the value of jade. Nonplussed for the 
                        moment, Stephanie had lost her mental, though not her outward, composure and referred them back
                        casually to an evening at the Cowperwood home when Aileen had been present and the gauds had
                        been genially forced upon her.
                    Unfortunately for Aileen, the matter was not to be allowed to rest just so, for going
                        one afternoon to a reception given by Rhees Grier, a young sculptor of social proclivities, who
                        had been introduced to her by Taylor Lord, she was given a taste of what it means to be a
                        neglected wife from a public point of view. As she entered on this occasion she happened to
                        overhear two women talking in a corner behind a screen erected to conceal wraps. "Oh,
                        here comes Mrs. Cowperwood," said one. "She's the street-railway
                        magnate's wife. Last winter and spring he was running with that Platow girlof the
                        Garrick Players, you know."
                    The other nodded, studying Aileen's splendiferous green-velvet gown with
                        envy.
                    I wonder if she's faithful to him?" she queried, while Aileen
                        strained to hear. "She looks daring enough."
                    Aileen managed to catch a glimpse of her observers later, when they were not looking,
                        and her face showed her mingled resentment and feeling; but it did no good. The wretched
                        gossipers had wounded her in the keenest way. She was hurt, angry, nonplussed. To think that
                        Cowperwood by his variability should expose her to such gossip as this!
                    One day not so long after her conversation with Mrs. Platow, Aileen happened to be
                        standing outside the door of her own boudoir, the landing of which commanded the lower hall, and
                        there overheard two of her servants discussing the Cowperwood menage in particular and Chicago
                        life in general. One was a tall, angular girl of perhaps twenty-seven or eight, a chambermaid,
                        the other a short, stout woman of forty who held the position of assistant housekeeper. They
                        were pretending to dust, though gossip conducted in a whisper was the matter for which they were
                        foregathered. The tall girl had recently been employed in the family of Aymar Cochrane, the
                        former president of the Chicago West Division Railway and now a director of the new West Chicago
                        Street Railway Company.
                    
                    "And I was that surprised," Aileen heard this girl saying,
                        "to think I should be coming here. I cud scarcely believe me ears when they told me.
                        Why, Miss Florence was runnin' out to meet him two and three times in the week. The
                        wonder to me was that her mother never guessed."
                    "Och," replied the other, "he's the very divil
                        and all when it comes to the wimmin." (Aileen did not see the upward lift of the hand
                        that accompanied this). "There was a little girl that used to come here. Her father
                        lives up the street here. Haguenin is his name. He owns that morning paper, the Press, and has a fine house up the street here a little way. Well, I
                        haven't seen her very often of late, but more than once I saw him kissing her in this
                        very room. Sure his wife knows all about it. Depend on it. one had an awful right with some
                        woman here onct, so I hear, some woman that he was runnin' with and bringin'
                        here to the house. I hear it's somethin' terrible the way she beat her
                        upscreamin' and carryin' on. Oh, they're the divil, these men, when
                        it comes to the wimmin."
                    A slight rustling sound from somewhere sent the two gossipers on their several ways,
                        but Aileen had heard enough to understand. What was she to do? How was she to learn more of
                        these new women, of whom she had never heard at all? She at once suspected Florence Cochrane,
                        for she knew that this servant had worked in the Cochrane family. And then Cecily Haguenin, the
                        daughter of the editor with whom they were on the friendliest terms! Cowperwood kissing her! Was
                        there no end to his liaisons his infidelity?
                    She returned, fretting and grieving, to her room, where she meditated and meditated,
                        wondering whether she should leave him, wondering whether she should reproach him openly,
                        wondering whether she should employ more detectives. What good would it do? She had employed
                        detectives once. Had it prevented the Stephanie Platow incident? Not at all. Would it prevent
                        other liaisons in the future? Very likely not. Obviously her home life with Cowperwood was
                        coming to a complete and disastrous end. Things could not go on in this way. She had done wrong,
                        possibly, in taking him away from  Mrs. Cowperwood
                        number one, though she could scarcely believe that, for Mrs. Lillian Cowperwood was so unsuited
                        to him but this repayment! If she had been at all superstitious or religious, and had known her
                        Bible which she didn't, she might have quoted to herself that very fatalistic statement
                        of the New Testament, "With what measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you again.
                    The truth was that Cowperwood's continued propensity to rove at liberty
                        among the fair sex could not in the long Coincident with the disappearance of Stephanie Platow,
                        he launched upon a variety of episodes, the charming daughter of so worthy a man as Editor
                        Haguenin, his sincerest and most sympathetic journalistic supporter; and the daughter of Aymar
                        Cochrane, falling victims, among others, to what many would have called his wiles. As a matter
                        of fact, in most cases he was as much sinned against as sinning, since the provocation was as
                        much offered as given.
                    The manner in which he came to get in with Cecily Haguenin was simple enough. Being
                        an old friend of the family, and a frequent visitor at her father s house, he found this
                        particular daughter of desire an easy victim. She was a vigorous blonde creature of twenty at
                        this time, very full and plump, with large, violet eyes, and with considerable alertness of
                        minda sort of doll girl with whom Cowperwood found it pleasant to amuse himself. A playful
                        gamboling relationship had existed between them when she was a mere child attending school, and
                        had continued through her college years whenever she happened to be at home on a vacation. In
                        these very latest days when Cowperwood on occasion sat in the Haguenin library consulting with
                        the journalist-publisher concerning certain moves which he wished to have put right before the
                        public he saw considerably more of Cecily. One night, when her father had gone out to look up
                        the previous action of the city council in connection with some matter of franchises, a series
                        of more or less sympathetic and understanding glances suddenly culminated in Cecily's
                        playfully waving a new novel, which she happened to have in her hand, m Cowperwood's
                        face; and he, in reply, laid hold caressingly of her arms.
                    
                    "You can't stop me so easily," she observed, banteringly.
                    "Oh yes, I can," he replied.
                    A slight struggle ensued, in which he, with her semiwilful connivance, managed to
                        maneuver her into his arms, her head backward against his shoulder.
                    "Well," she said, looking up at him with a semi-nervous,
                        semi-provocative glance, "now what? You'll just have to let me go."
                    "Not very soon, though."
                    "Oh yes, you will. My father will be here in a moment."
                    Well not until then, anyhow. You're getting to be the sweetest
                        girl."
                    She did not resist, but remained gazing half nervously, half dreamily at him,
                        whereupon he smoothed her cheek, 2nd then kissed her. Her father s returning step put an end to
                        this but from this point on ascent or descent to a perfect understanding was easily made.
                    In the matter of Florence Cochrane, the daughter of Aymar Cochrane, the president of
                        the Chicago West Division Companya second affair of the periodthe approach was only slightly
                        different, the result the same. This girl, to furnish only a brief impression, was a blonde of a
                        different type from Cecilydelicate, picturesque, dreamy. She was mildly intellectual at this
                        time, engaged in reading Marlowe and Jonson; and Cowperwood, busy in the matter of the West
                        Chicago Street Railway, and conferring with her father, was conceived by her as a great
                        personage of the Elizabethan order. In a tentative way she was in revolt against an apple-pie
                        order of existence which was being forced upon her. Cowperwood recognized the mood, trifled with
                        her spiritedly, looked into her eyes, and found the response he wanted. Neither old Aymar
                        Cochrane nor his impeccably respectable wife ever discovered.
                    Subsequently Aileen, reflecting upon these latest developments, was from one point of
                        view actually pleased or eased. There is always safety in numbers, and she felt that if
                        Cowperwood were going to go on like this it would not be possible for him in the long run to
                        take a definite interest  in any one; and so, all
                        things considered, and other things being equal, he would probably just as leave remain married
                        to her as not
                    But what a comment, she could not help reflecting, on her own charms! What an end to
                        an ideal union that had seemed destined to last all their days! She, Aileen Butler, who in her
                        youth had deemed herself the peer of any girl in charm, force, beauty, to be shoved aside thus
                        early in her lifeshe was only fortyby the younger generation. And such silly snips as they
                        wereStephanie Platow! and Cecily Haguenin! and Florence Cochrane, in all likelihood another
                        pasty-faced beginner! And here she wasvigorous, resplendent, smooth of face and body, her
                        fore-head, chin, neck, eyes without a wrinkle, her hair a rich golden reddish glow, her step
                        springing, her weight no more than one hundred and fifty pounds for her very normal height, with
                        all the advantages of a complete toilet cabinet, jewels, clothing, taste, and skill in material
                        selectionbeing elbowed out by these upstarts. It was almost unbelievable. It was so unfair. Life
                        was so cruel, Cowperwood so tern peramentally unbalanced. Dear God! to think that this should be
                        true! Why should he not love her? She studied her beauty in the mirror from time to time, and
                        raged and raged. Why was her body not sufficient for him! Why should he deem any one more
                        beautiful? Why should he not be true to his reiterated protestations that he cared for her?
                        Other men were true to other women. Her father had been faithful to her mother. At the thought
                        of her own rattier and his opinion of her conduct she winced, but it did not change her point of
                        view as to her present rights. See her hair! See her eyes! See her smooth, resplendent arms! Why
                        should Cowperwood not love her? Why, indeed?
                    One night, shortly afterward, she was sitting in her boudoir reading, waiting for him
                        to come home, when the telephone-bell sounded and he informed her that he was compelled to
                        remain at the office late. Afterward he said he might be obliged to run on to Pittsburg for
                        thirty-six hours or thereabouts; but he would surely be back on the third day, counting the
                        present as one. Aileen was chagrined. Her voice showed it. They had been scheduled  to go to dinner with the Hoecksemas, and afterward
                        to the theater. Cowperwood suggested that she should go alone, but Aileen declined rather
                        sharply; she hung up the receiver without even the pretense of a good-by. And then at ten
                        o'clock he telephoned again, saying that he had changed his mind, and that if she were
                        interested to go anywherea later supper, or the likeshe should dress, otherwise he would come
                        home expecting to remain.
                    Aileen immediately concluded that some scheme he had had to amuse himself had fallen
                        through. Having spoiled her evening, he was coming home to make as much hay as possible out of
                        this bit of sunshine. This infuriated her. The whole business of uncertainty in the matter of
                        his affections was telling on her nerves. A storm was in order, and it had come. He came
                        bustling in a little later, slipped his arms around her as she came forward and kissed her on
                        the mouth. He smoothed her arms in a make-believe and yet tender way, and patted her shoulders.
                        Seeing her frown, he inquired, "What's troubling Babykins?"
                    "Oh, nothing more than usual," replied Aileen, irritably.
                    Let's not talk about that. Have you had your dinner?"
                        "Yes, we had it brought in." He was referring to McKenty, Addison, and
                        himself, and the statement was true. Being in an honest position for once, he felt called upon
                        to justify himself a little. "It couldn't be avoided to-night. I'm
                        sorry that this business takes up so much of my time, but I'll get out of it some day
                        soon. Things are bound to ease up."
                    Aileen withdrew from his embrace and went to her dressing-table. A glance showed her
                        that her hair was slightly awry, and she smoothed it into place. She looked at her chin, and
                        then went back to her bookrather sulkily, he thought.
                    "Now, Aileen, what's the trouble?" he inquired.
                        "Aren't you glad to have me up here? I know you have had a pretty rough road
                        of it of late, but aren't you willing to let bygones be bygones and trust to the future
                        a little?"
                    "The future! The future! Don't talk to me about the future.
                        It's little enough it holds in store for me," she replied.
                    
                    Cowperwood saw that she was verging on an emotional storm, but he trusted to his
                        powers of persuasion, and her basic affection for him, to soothe and quell her.
                    "I wish you wouldn't act this way, pet," he went on.
                    "You know I have always cared for you. You know I always shall.
                        I'll admit that there are a lot of little things which interfere with my being at home
                        as much as I would like at present; but that doesn't alter the fact that my feeling is
                        the same. I should think you could see that."
                    "Feeling! Feeling!" taunted Aileen, suddenly. "Yes, I know
                        how much feeling you have. You have feeling enough to give other women sets of jade and jewels,
                        and to run around with every silly little snip you meet. 'You needn't come
                        home here at ten o'clock, when you can't go anywhere else, and talk about
                        feeling for me. I know how much feeling you have. Pshaw!"
                    She flung herself irritably back in her chair and opened her book. Cowperwood gazed
                        at her solemnly, for this thrust in regard to Stephanie was a revelation. This woman business
                        could grow peculiarly exasperating at times.
                    "What do you mean, anyhow?" he observed, cautiously and with much
                        seeming candor. I haven t given any jade or jewels to any one nor have I been running around
                        with any 'little snips,' as you call them. I don't know what you are
                        talking about, Aileen."
                    "Oh, Frank," commented Aileen, wearily and incredulously,
                        "you lie so! Why do you stand there and lie? I'm so tired of it; I'm
                        so sick of it all. How should the servants know of so many things to talk of here if they
                        weren't true? I didn't invite Mrs. Platow to come and ask me why you had given
                        her daughter a set of jade. I know why you lie; you want to hush me up and keep quiet.
                        You're afraid I'll go to Mr. Haguenin or Mr. Cochrane or Mr. Platow, or to all
                        three. Well, you can rest your soul on that score. I won't. I'm sick of you
                        and your lies. Stephanie Platowthe thin stick! Cecily Hagueninthe little piece of gum! And
                        Florence Cochraneshe looks like a dead fish!" (Aileen had a genius for characterization
                        at times.) "If it just weren't for the way I  acted toward my family in Philadelphia, and the talk it would create, and the
                        injury it would do you financially, I'd act to-morrow. I'd leave
                        youthat's what I'd do. And to think that I should ever have believed that you
                        really loved me, or could care for any woman permanently. Bosh! But I don't care. Go
                        on! Only I'll tell you one thing. You needn't think I'm going to go
                        on enduring all this as I have in the past. I'm not. You're it. I'm
                        not so old yet. There are plenty of men who will be glad to pay me attention if you
                        won't. I told you once that I wouldn't be faithful to you if you
                        weren't to me, and I won't be. I'll show you. I'll go with
                        other men. I will! I will! I swear it."
                    "Aileen," he asked, softly, pleadingly, realizing the futility of
                        additional lies under such circumstances, "won't I scarcely understand myself
                        at times. I am not like other men. You and I have run together a long time now. Why not wait
                        awhile? Give me a chance! See if I do not change. I may."
                    "Oh yes, wait! Change. You may change. Haven't I waited?
                        Haven't I walked the floor night after night! when you haven't been here? Bear
                        with youyes, yes! Who's to bear with me when my heart is breaking? Oh, God!"
                        she suddenly added, with passionate vigor, "I'm miserable! I'm
                        miserable! My heart aches! It aches!"
                    She clutched her breast and swung from the room, moving with that vigorous stride
                        that had once appealed to him so, and still did. Alas, alas! it touched him now, but only as a
                        part of a very shifty and cruel world. He hurried out of the room after her, and (as at the time
                        of the Rita Sohlberg incident) slipped his arm about her waist; but she pulled away irritably.
                        "No, no!" she exclaimed. "Let me alone. I' m tired of that.
                    "You're really not fair to me, Aileen," with a great show
                        of feeling and sincerity. "You're letting one affair that came between us
                        blind your whole point of view. I give you my word I haven't been unfaithful to you
                        with Stephanie Platow or any other woman. I may have flirted with them a little, but that is
                        really nothing. Why not be  sensible? I'm
                        not as black as you paint me. I'm moving in big matters that are as much for your
                        concern and future as for mine. Be sensible, be liberal."
                    There was much argumentthe usual charges and countercharges but, finally, because of
                        her weariness of heart, his petting, the unsolvability of it all, she permitted him for the time
                        being to persuade her that there were still some crumbs of affection left. She was soul-sick,
                        heartsick. Even he, as he attempted to soothe her, realized clearly that to establish the
                        reality of his love in her belief he would have to make some much greater effort to entertain
                        and comfort her, and that this, in his present mood, and with his leaning toward promiscuity,
                        was practically impossible. For the time being a peace might be patched up, but in view of what
                        she expected of himher passion and selfish individuality it could not be. He would have to go on,
                        and she would have to leave him, if needs be; but he could not cease or go back. He was too
                        passionate, too radiant, too individual and complex to belong to any one single individual
                        alone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    OBSTACLES
                    THE impediments that can arise to baffle a great and swelling career are strange and
                        various. In some instances all the cross-waves of life must be cut by the strong swimmer. With
                        other personalities there is a chance, or force, that happily allies itself with them; or they
                        quite unconsciously ally themselves with it, and find that there is a tide that bears them on.
                        Divine will? Not necessarily. There is no understanding of it. Guardian spirits? There are many
                        who so believe, to their utter undoing. (Witness Macbeth). An unconscious drift in the direction
                        of right, virtue, duty? These are banners of mortal manufacture. Nothing is proved; all is
                        permitted.
                    Not long after Cowperwood's accession to control on the West Side, for
                        instance, a contest took place between his corporation and a citizen by the name of Redmond
                        Purdyreal-estate investor, property-trader, and money-lender which set Chicago by the ears. The
                        La Salle and Washing-ton Street tunnels were now in active service, but because of the great
                        north and south area of the West Side, necessitating the cabling of Van Buren Street and Blue
                        Island Avenue, there was need of a third tunnel somewhere south of Washington Street, preferably
                        at Van Buren Street, because the business heart was thus more directly reached. Cowperwood was
                        willing anxious to build this tunnel, though he was puzzled how to secure from the city a right
                        of way under Van Buren Street, where a bridge loaded with heavy traffic now swung. There were
                        all sorts of complications. In the first place, the consent of the War Department at Washington
                        had to be secured in order to tunnel under the river at all. Secondly, the excavation, if
                        directly under the bridge, might prove an intolerable nuisance,  necessitating the closing or removal or the bridge. Owing to the critical,
                        not to say hostile, attitude of the newspapers which, since the La Salle and Washington tunnel
                        grants, were following his every move with a searchlight, Cowperwood decided not to petition the
                        city for privileges in this case, but instead to buy the property rights of sufficient land just
                        north of the bridge, where the digging of the tunnel could proceed without interference.
                    The piece of land most suitable for this purpose, a lot 150 X 150, lying a little way
                        from the river-bank, and occupied by a seven-story loft-building, was owned by the previously
                        mentioned Redmond Purdy, a long, thin, angular, dirty person, who wore celluloid collars and
                        cuffs and spoke with a nasal intonation.
                    Cowperwood had the customary overtures made by seemingly disinterested parties
                        endeavoring to secure the land at a fair price. But Purdy, who was as stingy as a miser and as
                        incisive as a rat-trap, had caught wind of the proposed tunnel scheme. He was all alive for a
                        fine profit. "No, no, no," he declared, over and over, when approached by the
                        representatives of Mr. Sylvester Toomey, Cowperwood's ubiquitous land-agent.
                        "I don't want to sell. Go away."
                    Mr. Sylvester Toomey was finally at his wit's end, and complained to
                        Cowperwood, who at once sent for those noble beacons of dark and stormy waters, General Van
                        Sickle and the Hon. Kent Barrows McKibben. The General was now becoming a little dolty, and
                        Cowperwood was thinking of pensioning him; but McKibben was in his. Primesmug, handsome, deadly,
                        smooth. After talking it over with Mr. Toomey they returned to Cowperwood's office with
                        a promising scheme. The Hon. Nahum Dickensheets, one of the judges of the State Court of
                        Appeals, and a man long since attached, by methods which need not here be described, to
                        Cowperwood s star, had been persuaded to bring his extensive technical knowledge to bear on the
                        emergency. At his suggestion the work of digging the tunnel was at once begunfirst at the east
                        or Franklin Street end; then, after eight months' digging, at the west or Canal Street
                        end. A shaft was actually sunk some thirty feet back of Mr. Purdy's buildingbetween  it and the riverwhile that gentleman watched with a
                        quizzical gleam in his eye this defiant procedure. He was sure that when it came to the
                        necessity of annexing his property the North and West Chicago Street Railways would be obliged
                        to pay through the nose.
                    "Well, I'll be cussed," he frequently observed to himself,
                        for he could not see how his exaction of a pound of flesh was to be evaded, and yet he felt
                        strangely restless at times. Finally, when it became absolutely necessary for Cowperwood to
                        secure without further delay this coveted strip, he sent for its occupant, who called in
                        pleasant anticipation of a profitable conversation; this should be worth a small fortune to him.
                    "Mr. Purdy," observed Cowperwood, glibly, "you have a
                        piece of land on the other side of the river that I need. Why don't you sell it to me?
                        Can't we fix this up now in some amicable way?"
                    He smiled while Purdy cast shrewd, wolfish glances about the place, wondering how
                        much he could really hope to exact. The building, with all its interior equipment, land, and
                        all, was worth in the neighborhood of two hundred thousand dollars.
                    "Why should I sell? The building is a good building. It's as useful
                        to me as it would be to you. I'm making money out of it."
                    "Quite true," replied Cowperwood, "but I am willing to pay
                        you a fair price for it. A public utility is involved. This tunnel will be a good thing for the
                        West Side and any other land you may own over there. With what I will pay you you can buy more
                        land in that neighborhood or elsewhere, and make a good thing out of it. We need to put this
                        tunnel just where it is, or I wouldn't trouble to argue with you."
                    "That's just it," replied Purdy, fixedly.
                        "You've gone ahead and dug your tunnel without consulting me, and now you
                        expect me to get out of the way. Well, I don't see that I'm called on to get
                        out of there just to please you."
                    "But I'll pay you a fair price."
                    "How much will you pay me?"
                    How much do you want?
                    Mr. Purdy scratched a fox-like ear. "One million dollars."
                    
                    "One million dollars!" exclaimed Cowperwood.
                        "Don't you think that's a little steep, Mr. Purdy?"
                    "No," replied Purdy, sagely. "It's not any more
                        than it's worth."
                    Cowperwood sighed.
                    "I'm sorry," he replied, meditatively, "but this
                        is really too mush. Would't you take three hundred thousand dollars in cash now and
                        consider this thing closed? "One million," replied Purdy, looking sternly at
                        the ceiling.
                    Very well, Mr. Purdy," replied Cowperwood. "I'm very
                        sorry. It's plain to me that we can't do business as I had hoped. I m willing
                        to pay you a reasonable sum; but what you ask is far too muchpreposterous! Don't you
                        think you'd better reconsider? We might move the tunnel even yet."
                    "One Millon dollars," said Purdy.
                    "It can't be done, Mr. Purdy. It isn't worth it. Why
                        won't you be fair? Call it three hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars cash, and my
                        check to-night."
                    "I wouldn't take five or six hundred thousand dollars if you were
                        to offer it to me, Mr. Cowperwood, to-night or any other time. I know my rights.
                    "Very well, then," replied Cowperwood, "that's
                        all I can say. If you won't sell, you won't sell. Perhaps you'll
                        change your mind later."
                    Mr. Purdy went out, and Cowperwood called in his lawyers and his engineers. One
                        Saturday afternoon, a week or two later, when the building in Question had been vacated for the
                        day, a company of three hundred laborers, with wagons, picks, shovels, and dynamite sticks,
                        arrived. By sundown of the next day (which, being Sunday, was a legal holiday, with no courts
                        open or sitting to issue injunctions) this comely structure, the private property of Mr. Redmond
                        Purdy, was completely razed and a large excavation substituted in its stead. The gentleman of
                        the celluloid cuffs and collars, when informed about nine o' clock of this same Sunday
                        morning that his building had been almost completely removed, was naturally greatly perturbed. A
                        portion of the wall was still standing when he arrived, hot and excited, and the police were
                        appealed to.
                    
                    But, strange to say, this was of little avail, for they were shown a writ of
                        injunction issued by the court of highest jurisdiction, presided over by the Hon. Nahum
                        Dickensheets, which restrained all and sundry from interfering. (Subsequently on demand of
                        another court this remarkable document was discovered to have disappeared; the contention was
                        that it had never really existed or been produced at all.)
                    The demolition and digging proceeded. Then began a scurrying of lawyers to the door
                        of one friendly judge after another. There were apoplectic cheeks, blazing eyes, and gasps for
                        breath while the enormity of the offense was being noised abroad. Law is law, however. Procedure
                        is procedure, and no writ of injunction was either issuable or returnable on a legal holiday,
                        when no courts were sitting. Nevertheless, by three o'clock in the afternoon an
                        obliging Nevertheless, by three o'clock in the afternoon an obliging. magistrate was
                        found who consented who consented to issue an injunction staying this terrible crime. By this
                        time, however, the building was gone, the excavation complete. It remained merely for the West
                        Chicago Street Railway Company to secure an injunction vacating the first injunction, praying
                        that its rights, privileges, liberties, etc., be not interfered with and so creating a contest
                        which naturally threw the matter into the State Court of Appeals, where it could safely lie. For
                        several years there were numberless injunctions, writs of errors, doubts, motions to the
                        reconsider, threats to carry the matter from the state to the federal courts on a matter of
                        constitutional privilege, and the like. The affair was finally settled out of court, for Mr.
                        Purdy by this time was a more sensible man. In the mean time, however, the newspapers had been
                        given full details of the transaction, and a storm of words against Cowperwood ensued.
                    But more disturbing than the Redmond Purdy incident was the rivalry of a new Chicago
                        street-railway company. It appeared first as an idea in the brain of one James Furnivale
                        Woolsen, a determined young Westerner from California, and developed by degrees into consents
                        and petitions from fully two-thirds of the residents of various streets in the extreme southwest
                        section of the city where  it was proposed the new
                        line should be located. This same James Furnivale Woolsen, being an ambitious person, was not to
                        be so easily put down. Besides the consent and petitions, which Cowperwood could not easily get
                        away from him, he had a new form or traction then being tried out in several minor citiesa form
                        of electric propulsion by means of an overhead wire and a traveling pole, which was said to be
                        very economical, and to give a service better than cables and cheaper even than horses.
                    Cowperwood had heard all about this new electric system some time before, and had
                        been studying it for several years with the greatest interest, of street-railroading. However,
                        having but so recently completed his excellent cable system, he did not see that it was
                        advisable to throw it away. The trolley was as yet too much of a novelty; certainly it was not
                        advisable to have it introduced into Chicago until he was ready to introduce it himselffirst on
                        his outlying feeder lines, he thought, then perhaps generally.
                    But before he could take suitable action against Woolsen, that engaging young
                        upstart, who was possessed of a high-power imagination and a gift of gab, had allied himself
                        with such interested investors as Truman Leslie MacDonald, who saw here a heaven-sent
                        opportunity of mulcting Cowperwood, and Jordan Jules, once the president of the North Chicago
                        Gas Company, who had lost money through Cowperwood in the gas war. Two better instruments for
                        goading a man whom they considered an enemy could not well be imaginedTruman Leslie with his
                        dark, waspish, mistrustful, jealous eyes, and his slim, vital body; and Jordan Jules, short,
                        rotund, sandy, a sickly crop of thin, oily, light hair growing down over his coat-collar, his
                        forehead and crown glisteningly bald, his eyes a seeking, searching, revengeful blue. They in
                        turn brought in Samuel Blackman, once president of the South Side Gas Company; Sunderland Sledd,
                        of local railroad management and stock-investment fame; and Norrie Simms, president of the
                        Douglas Trust Company, who, however, was little more than a fiscal agent. The general feeling
                        was that Cowperwood's defensive tacticswhich consisted in  having the city council refuse to actcould be easily met.
                    "Well, I think we can soon fix that," exclaimed young MacDonald,
                        one morning at a meeting. "We ought to be able to smoke them out. A little publicity
                        will do it."
                    He appealed to his father, the editor of the Inquirer,
                        but the latter refused to act for the time being, seeing that his son was interested. MacDonald,
                        enraged at the do-noting attitude of the council, invaded that body and demanded of Alderman
                        Dowling, still leader, why this matter of the Chicago general ordinances was still lying
                        unconsidered. Mr. Dowling, a large, mushy, placid man with blue eyes, an iron frame, and a beefy
                        smile, vouchsafed the information that, although he was chairman of the committee on been
                        payin' much attention to thing lately." He replied. "I
                        haven't been payin' much attention to things lately," he replied.
                    Mr. MacDonald went to see the remaining members of this same committee. They were
                        non-committal. They would have to look into the matter. Somebody claimed that there was a flaw
                        in the petitions.
                    Evidently there was crooked work here somewhere. Cowperwood was to blame, no doubt.
                        MacDonald conferred with Blackman and Jordan Jules, and it was determined that the council
                        should be harried into doing its duty. This was a legitimate enterprise. A new and better system
                        of traction was being kept out of the city. Schryhart, since he was offered an interest, and
                        since there was considerable chance of his being able to dominate the new enterprise, agreed
                        that the ordinances ought to be acted upon. In consequence there was a renewed hubbub in the
                        newspapers.
                    It was pointed out through Schryhart's Chronicle, through Hyssop's and Merrill's papers, and through the Inquirer that such a situation was intolerable. If the dominant
                        party, at the behest of so sinister an influence as Cowperwood, was to tie up all outside
                        traction legislation, there could be but one thing leftan appeal to the voters of the city to
                        turn the rascals out. No party could survive such a record of political trickery and financial
                        jugglery. McKenty, Dowling, Cowperwood, and others were  characterized as unreasonable obstructionists and debasing influences. But
                        Cowperwood merely smiled. These were the caterwaulings of the enemy. Later, when young MacDonald
                        threatened to bring legal action to compel the council to do its duty, Cowperwood and his
                        associates were not so cheerful, A mandamus proceeding, however futile, would give the
                        newspapers great opportunity for chatter; moreover, a city election was drawing near. However,
                        McKenty and Cowperwood were by no means helpless. They had offices, jobs, funds, a
                        well-organized party system, the saloons, the dives, and those dark chambers where at late hours
                        ballot-boxes are incontinently stuffed.
                    Did Cowperwood share personally in all this? Not at all. Or McKenty? No. In good
                        tweed and fine linen they frequently conferred in the offices of the Chicago Trust Company, the
                        president's office of the North Chicago Street Railway System, and Mr.
                        Cowperwood's library. No dark scenes were ever enacted there. But just the same, when
                        the time came, the Schryhart-Simms-MacDonald editorial combination did not win. Mr.
                        McKenty's party had the votes. A number of the most flagrantly debauched aldermen, it
                        is true, were defeated; but what is an alderman here and there? The newly elected ones, even in
                        the face of pre-election promises and vows, could be easily suborned or convinced. So the
                        anti-Cowperwood element was just where it was before; but the feeling against him was much
                        stronger, and considerable sentiment generated in the public at large that there was something
                        wrong with the Cowperwood method of street-railway control.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    UNTOWARD DISCLOSURES
                    COINCIDENT with these public disturbances and of subsequent bearing upon them was the
                        discovery by Editor Haguenin of Cowperwood's relationship with Cecily. It came about
                        not through Aileen, who was no longer willing to fight Cowperwood in this matter, but through
                        Haguenin's lady society editor, who, hearing rumors in the social world, spring form
                        heaven knows where, and being beholden to Haguenin for many favors, had carried the matter to
                        him in a very direct way. Haguenin, a man of insufficient worldliness in spite of his
                        journalistic profession, scarcely believed it. Cowperwood was so suave, so commercial. He had
                        heard many things concerning himhis pastbut Cowperwood's present state in Chicago was
                        such, it seemed to him, as to preclude petty affairs of this kind. Still, the name of his
                        daughter being involved, he took the matter up with Cecily, who under pressure confessed. She
                        made the usual plea that she was of age, and that she wished to live her own lifelogic which she
                        had gathered largely from Cowperwood's attitude. Haguenin did nothing about it at
                        first, thinking to send Cecily off to an aunt in Nebraska; but, finding her intractable, and
                        fearing some counter-advice or reprisal on the part of Cowperwood, who, by the way, had indorsed
                        paper to the extent of one hundred thousand dollars for him, he decided to discuss matters
                        first. It meant a cessation of relations and some inconvenient financial readjustments; but it
                        had to be. He was just on the point of calling on Cowperwood when the latter, unaware as yet of
                        the latest development in regard to Cecily, and having some variation of his council programme
                        to discuss with Haguenin, asked him over the 'phone to lunch. Haguenin  was much surprised, but in a way relieved.
                        "I am busy," he said, very heavily, "but cannot you come to the
                        office some time to-day? There is something I would like to see you about."
                    Cowperwood, imagining that there was some editorial or local political development on
                        foot which might be of interest to him, made an appointment for shortly after four. He drove to
                        the publisher's office in the Press Building, and was greeted by a grave and almost
                        despondent man.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood," began Haguenin, when the financier entered, smart
                        and trig, his usual air of genial sufficiency written all over him, "I have known you
                        now for something like fourteen years, and during this time I have shown you nothing but
                        courtesy and good will. It is true that quite recently you have done me various financial
                        favors, but that was more due, I thought, to the sincere friendship you bore me than to anything
                        else. Quite accidentally I have learned of the relationship that exists between you and my
                        daughter. I have recently spoken to her, and she admitted all that I need to know. Common
                        decency, it seems to me, might have suggested to you that you leave my child out of the list of
                        women you have degraded. Since it has not, I merely wish to say to you"and Mr.
                        Haguenin's face was very tense and white"that the relationship between you and
                        me is ended. The one hundred thousand dollars you have indorsed for me will be arranged for
                        otherwise as soon as possible, and I hope you will return to me the stock of this paper that you
                        hold as collateral. Another type of man, Mr. Cowperwood, might attempt to make you suffer in
                        another way. I presume that you have no children of your own, or that if you have you lack the
                        parental instinct; otherwise you could not have injured me in this fashion. I believe that you
                        will live to see that this policy does not pay in Chicago or anywhere else."
                    Haguenin turned slowly on his heel toward his desk. Cowperwood, who had listened very
                        patiently and very fixedly, without a tremor of an eyelash, merely said:
                    "There seems to be no common intellectual ground, Mr. Haguenin, upon which
                        you and I can meet in this  matter. You cannot
                        understand my point of view. I could not possibly adopt yours. However, as you wish it, the
                        stock will be returned to you upon receipt of my indorsements. I cannot say more than
                        that."
                    He turned and walked unconcernedly out, thinking that it was too bad to lose the
                        support of so respectable a man, but also that he could do without it. It was silly the way
                        parents insisted on their daughters being something that they did not wish to be.
                    Haguenin stood by his desk after Cowperwood had gone, wondering where he should get
                        one hundred thousand dollars quickly, and also what he should do to make his daughter see the
                        error of her ways. It was an astonishing blow he had received, he thought, in the house of a
                        friend. It occurred to him that Walter Melville Hyssop, who was succeeding mightily with his two
                        papers, might come to his rescue, and that later he could repay him when the Press was more prosperous. He went out to his house in a quandary
                        concerning life and chance; while Cowperwood went to the Chicago Trust Company to confer with
                        Videra, and later out to his own home to consider how he should equalize this loss. The state
                        and fate of Cecily Haguenin was not of so much importance as many other things on his mind at
                        this time.
                    Far more serious were his cogitations with regard to a liaison he had recently
                        ventured to establish with Mrs. Hosmer Hand, wife of an eminent investor and financier. Hand was
                        a solid, phlegmatic, heavy-thinking person who had some years before lost his first wife, to
                        whom he had been eminently faithful. After that, for a period of years he had been a lonely
                        speculator, attending to his vast affairs; but finally because of his enormous wealth, his
                        rather presentable appearance and social rank, he had been entrapped by much social attention on
                        the part of a Mrs. Jessie Drew Barrett into marrying her daughter Caroline, a dashing skip of a
                        girl who was clever, incisive, calculating, and intensely gay. Since she was socially ambitious,
                        and without much heart, the thought of Hand's millions, and how advantageous would be
                        her situation in case he should die, had enabled her to overlook quite easily his heavy,
                        unyouthful  appearance and to see him in the light of
                        a lover. There was criticism, of course. Hand was considered a victim, and Caroline and her
                        mother designing minxes and cats; but since the wealthy financier was truly ensnared it behooved
                        friends and future satellites to be courteous, and so they were. The wedding was very well
                        attended. Mrs. Hand began to give house-parties, teas, musicales, and receptions on a lavish
                        scale.
                    Cowperwood never met either her or her husband until he was well launched on his
                        street-car programme. Needing two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in a hurry, and finding the
                        Chicago Trust Company, the Lake City Bank, and other institutions heavily loaded with his
                        securities, he turned in a moment of inspirational thought to Hand. Cowperwood was always a
                        great borrower. His paper was out in large quantities. He introduced himself frequently to
                        powerful men in this way, taking long or short loans at high or low rates of interest, as the
                        case might be, and sometimes finding some one whom he could work with or use. In the case of
                        Hand, though the latter was ostensibly of the enemies' campthe
                        Schryhart-Union-Gas-Douglas-Trust-Company crowdnevertheless Cowperwood had no hesitation in
                        going to him. He wished to overcome or forestall any unfavorable impression. Though Hand, a
                        solemn man of shrewd but honest nature, had heard a number of unfavorable rumors, he was
                        inclined to be fair and think the best. Perhaps Cowperwood was merely the victim of envious
                        rivals.
                    When the latter first called on him at his office in the Rookery Building, he was
                        most cordial. "Come in, Mr. Cowperwood," he said. "I have heard a
                        great deal about you from one person and anothermostly from the newspapers. What can I do for
                        you?"
                    Cowperwood exhibited five hundred thousand dollars' worth of West Chicago
                        Street Railway stock. "I want to know if I can get two hundred and fifty thousand
                        dollars on those by to-morrow morning."
                    Hand, a placid man, looked at the securities peacefully. "What's
                        the matter with your own bank?" He was referring to the Chicago Trust Company.
                        "Can't it take care of them for you?"
                    
                    "Loaded up with other things just now," smiled Cowperwood,
                        ingratiatingly.
                    "Well, if I can believe all the papers say, you're going to wreck
                        these roads or Chicago or yourself; but I don't live by the papers. How long would you
                        want it for?"
                    "Six months, perhaps. A year, if you choose."
                    Hand turned over the securities, eying their gold seals.
                    "Five hundred thousand dollars' worth of six per cent. West Chicago
                        preferred," he commented. "Are you earning six per cent.?"
                    "We're earning eight right now. You'll live to see the day
                        when these shares will sell at two hundred dollars and pay twelve per cent. at that."
                    "And you've quadrupled the issue of the old company? Well,
                        Chicago's growing. Leave them here until to-morrow or bring them back. Send over or
                        call me, and I'll tell you."
                    They talked for a little while on street-railway and corporation matters. Hand wanted
                        to know something concerning West Chicago landa region adjoining Ravenswood. Cowperwood gave him
                        his best advice.
                    The next day he 'phoned, and the stocks, so Hand informed him, were
                        available. He would send a check over. So thus a tentative friendship began, and it lasted until
                        the relationship between Cowperwood and Mrs. Hand was consummated and discovered.
                    In Caroline Barrett, as she occasionally preferred to sign herself, Cowperwood
                        encountered a woman who was as restless and fickle as himself, but not so shrewd. Socially
                        ambitious, she was anything hut socially conventional, and she did not care for Hand. Once
                        married, she had planned to repay herself in part by a very gay existence. The affair between
                        her and Cowperwood had begun at a dinner at the magnificent residence of Hand on the North Shore
                        Drive overlooking the lake. Cowperwood had gone to talk over with her husband various Chicago
                        matters. Mrs. Hand was excited by his risqu$eA reputation. A little woman in stature, with
                        intensely white teeth, red lips which she did not hesitate to rouge on occasion, brown hair, and
                        small brown eyes which had a gay, searching, defiant twinkle in them, she did her best to be
                        interesting, clever, witty, and she was.
                    
                    "I know Frank Cowperwood by reputation, anyhow," she exclaimed,
                        holding out a small, white, jeweled hand, the nails of which at their juncture with the flesh
                        were tinged with henna, and the palms of which were slightly rouged. Her eyes blazed, and her
                        teeth gleamed. "One can scarcely read of anything else in the Chicago papers."
                    Cowperwood returned his most winning beam. "I'm delighted to meet
                        you, Mrs. Hand. I have read of you, too. But I hope you don't believe all the papers
                        say about me."
                    "And if I did it wouldn't hurt you in my estimation. To do is to be
                        talked about in these days."
                    Cowperwood, because of his desire to employ the services of Hand, was at his best. He
                        kept the conversation within conventional lines; but all the while he was exchanging secret,
                        unobserved smiles with Mrs. Hand, whom he realized at once had married Hand for his money, and
                        was bent, under a somewhat jealous espionage, to have a good time anyhow. There is a kind of
                        eagerness that goes with those who are watched and wish to escape that gives them a gay,
                        electric awareness and sparkle in the presence of an opportunity for release. Mrs. Hand had
                        this. Cowperwood, a past master in this matter of femininity, studied her hands, her hair, her
                        eyes, her smile. After some contemplation he decided, other things being equal, that Mrs. Hand
                        would do, and that he could be interested if she were very much interested in him. Her telling
                        eyes and smiles the heightened color of her cheeks indicated after a time that she was.
                    Meeting him on the street one day not long after they had first met, she told him
                        that she was going for a visit to friends at Oconomowoc, in Wisconsin.
                    "I don't suppose you ever get up that far north in summer, do
                        you?" she asked, with an air, and smiled.
                    "I never have," he replied; "but there's no
                        telling what I might do if I were bantered. I suppose you ride and canoe?"
                    "Oh yes; and play tennis and golf, too."
                    "But where would a mere idler like me stay?"
                    "Oh, there are several good hotels. There's never any trouble about
                        that. I suppose you ride yourself?"
                    After a fashion, replied Cowperwood, who was an expert.
                    
                    Witness then the casual encounter on horseback, early one Sunday morning in the
                        painted hills of Wisconsin, of Frank Algernon Cowperwood and Caroline Hand. A jaunty, racing
                        canter, side by side; idle talk concerning people, scenery, conveniences; his usual direct
                        suggestions and love-making, and then, subsequently
                    The day of reckoning, if such it might be called, came later.
                    Caroline Hand was, perhaps, unduly reckless. She admired Cowperwood greatly without
                        really loving him. He found her interesting, principally because she was young, debonair,
                        sufficienta new type. They met in Chicago after a time instead of in Wisconsin, then in Detroit
                        (where she had friends), then in Rockford, where a sister had gone to live. It was easy for him
                        with his time and means. Finally, Duane Kingsland, wholesale flour merchant, religious, moral,
                        conventional, who knew Cowperwood and his repute, encountered Mrs. Hand and Cowperwood first
                        near Oconomowoc one summer's day, and later in Randolph Street, near
                        Cowperwood's bachelor rooms. Being the man that he was, and knowing old Hand well, he
                        thought it was his duty to ask the latter if his wife knew Cowperwood intimately. There was an
                        explosion in the Hand home. Mrs. Hand, when confronted by her husband, denied, of course, that
                        there was anything wrong between her and Cowperwood. Her elderly husband from a certain telltale
                        excitement and resentment in her manner, did not believe this. He thought once of confronting
                        Cowperwood; but, being heavy and practical, he finally decided to sever all business
                        relationships with him and fight him in other ways. Mrs. Hand was watched very closely, and a
                        suborned maid discovered an old note she had written to Cowperwood. An attempt to persuade her
                        to leave for Europe as old Butler had once attempted to send Aileen years beforeraised a storm
                        of protest, but she went. Hand, from being neutral if not friendly, became quite the most
                        dangerous and forceful of all Cowperwood's Chicago enemies. He was a powerful man. His
                        wrath was boundless. He looked upon Cowperwood now as a dark and dangerous manone of whom
                        Chicago would be well rid.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    A SUPPER PARTY
                    SINCE the days in which Aileen had been left more or less lonely by Cowperwood,
                        however, no two individuals had been more faithful in their attentions than Taylor Lord and Kent
                        McKibben. Both were fond of her in a general way, finding her interesting physically and
                        temperamentally; but, being beholden to the magnate for many favors, they were exceedingly
                        circumspect in their attitude toward her, particularly during those early years in which they
                        knew that Cowperwood was intensely devoted to her. Later they were not so careful.
                    It was during this latter period that Aileen came gradually, through the agency of
                        these two men, to share in a form of mid-world life that was not utterly dull. In every large
                        city there is a kind of social half world, where artists and the more adventurous of the
                        socially unconventional and restless meet for an exchange of things which cannot be counted mere
                        social form and civility. It is the age-old world of Bohemia. Hither resort those
                        "accidentals" of fancy that make the stage the drawing-room, and all the
                        schools of artistic endeavor interesting or peculiar. In a number of studios in Chicago such as
                        those of Lane Cross and Rhees Grier, such little circles were to be found. Rhees Grier, for
                        instance, a purely parlor artist, with a the airs, conventions, and social adaptability of the
                        tribe, had quite a following. Here and to several other places by turns Taylor Lord and Kent
                        McKibben conducted Aileen, both asking and obtaining permission to be civil to her when
                        Cowperwood was away.
                    Among the friends of these two at this time was a certain i Polk Lynde, an
                        interesting society figure, whose father owned an immense reaper works, and whose time was spent
                             in idling, racing, gambling,
                        socializinganything, in short, that it came into his head to do. He was tall, dark, athletic,
                        straight, muscular, with a small dark mustache, dark, black-brown eyes, kinky black hair, and a
                        fine, almost military carriagewhich he clothed always to the best advantage. A clever
                        philanderer, it was quite his pride that he did not boast of his conquests. One look at him,
                        however, by the initiated, and the story was told. Aileen first saw him on a visit to the studio
                        of Rhees Grier. Being introduced to him very casually on this occasion, she was nevertheless
                        clearly conscious that she was encountering a fascinating man, and that he was fixing her with a
                        warm, avid eye. For the moment she recoiled from him as being a little too brazen in his stare,
                        and yet she admired the general appearance of him. He was of that smart world that she admired
                        so much, and from which now apparently she was hopelessly debarred. That trig, bold air of his
                        realized for her at last the type of man, outside of Cowperwood, whom she would prefer within
                        limits to admire her. If she were going to be "bad," as she would have phrased
                        it to herself, she would be "bad" with a man such as he. He would be winsome
                        and coaxing, but at the same time strong, direct, deliciously brutal, like her Frank. He had,
                        too, what Cowperwood could not have, a certain social air or swagger which came with idleness,
                        much loafing, a sense of social superiority and securitya devil-may-care insouciance which recks
                        little of other people's will or whims.
                    When she next saw him, which was several weeks later at an affair of the Courtney
                        Tabors, friends of Lord's, he exclaimed:
                    "Oh yes. By George! You're the Mrs. Cowperwood I met several weeks
                        ago at Rhees Grier's studio. I've not forgotten you. I've seen you in
                        my eye all over Chicago. Taylor Lord introduced me to you. Say, but you're a beautiful
                        woman!"
                    He leaned ingratiatingly, whimsically, admiringly near.
                    Aileen realized that for so early in the afternoon, and considering the crowd, he was
                        curiously enthusiastic. The truth was that because of some rounds he had made elsewhere he was
                        verging toward too much liquor. His eye was alight, his color coppery, his air swagger,
                        devil-may-care,  bacchanal. This made her a little
                        cautious; but she rather liked his brown, hard face, handsome mouth, and crisp Jovian curls. His
                        compliment was not utterly improper; but she nevertheless attempted coyly to avoid him.
                    "Come, Polk, here's an old friend of yours over hereSadie
                        Boutwellshe wants to meet you again," some one observed, catching him by the arm.
                    "No, you don't," he exclaimed, genially, and yet at the
                        same time a little resentfullythe kind of disjointed resentment a man who has had the least bit
                        too much is apt to feel on being interrupted. "I'm not going to walk all over
                        Chicago thinking of a woman I've seen somewhere only to be carried away the first time
                        I do meet her. I'm going to talk to her first."
                    Aileen laughed. "It's charming of you, but we can meet again,
                        perhaps. Besides, there's some one here"Lord was tactfully directing her
                        attention to another woman. Rhees Grier and McKibben, who were present also, came to her
                        assistance. In the hubbub that ensued Aileen was temporarily extricated and Lynde tactfully
                        steered out of her way. But they had met again, and it was not to be the last time. Subsequent
                        to this second meeting, Lynde thought the matter over quite calmly, and decided that he must
                        make a definite effort to become more intimate with Aileen. Though she was not as young as some
                        others, she suited his present mood exactly. She was rich physicallyvoluptuous and sentient. She
                        was not of his world precisely, but what of it? She was the wife of an eminent financier, who
                        had been in society once, and she herself had a dramatic record. He was sure of that. He could
                        win her if he wanted to. It would be easy, knowing her as he did, and knowing what he did about
                        her.
                    So not long after, Lynde ventured to invite her, with Lord, MeKibben, Mr. and Mrs.
                        Rhees Grier, and a young girl friend of Mrs. Grief who was rather attractive, a Miss Chrystobel
                        Lanman, to a theater and supper party. The programme was to hear a reigning farce at
                        Hooley's, then to sup at the Richelieu, and finally to visit a certain exclusive
                        gambling-parlor which then flourished on the South Sidethe resort of actors, society  gamblers, and the likewhere roulette,
                        trente-et-quarante, baccarat, and the honest game of poker, to say nothing of various other
                        games of chance, could be played amid exceedingly recherch$eA surroundings.
                    The party was gay, especially after the adjournment to the Richelieu, where special
                        dishes of chicken, lobster, and a bucket of champagne were served. Later at the Alcott Club, as
                        the gambling resort was known, Aileen, according to Lynde, was to be taught to play baccarat,
                        poker, and any other game that she wished. "You follow my advice, Mrs.
                        Cowperwood," he observed, cheerfully, at dinnerbeing host, he had put her between
                        himself and McKibben"and I'll show you how to get your money back anyhow.
                        That's more than some others can do," he added, spiritedly, recalling by a
                        look a recent occasion when he and McKibben, being out with friends, the latter had advised
                        liberally and had seen his advice go wrong.
                    "Have you been gambling, Kent?" asked Aileen, archly, turning to
                        her long-time social mentor and friend.
                    "No, I can honestly say I haven't," replied McKibben, with
                        a bland smile. "I may have thought I was gambling, but I admit I don't know
                        how. Now Polk, here, wins all the time, don't you, Polk? Just follow him."
                    A wry smile spread over Lynde's face at this, for it was on record in
                        certain circles that he had lost as much as ten and even fifteen thousand in an evening. He also
                        had a record of winning twenty-five thousand once at baccarat at an all-night and all-day
                        sitting, and then losing it.
                    Lynde all through the evening had been casting hard, meaning glances into
                        Aileen's eyes. She could not avoid this, and this and she did not feel that she wanted
                        to. He was so charming. He was talking to her half the time at the theater, without apparently
                        addressing or even seeing her. Aileen knew well enough what was in his mind. At times, quite as
                        in those days when she had first met Cowperwood, she felt an unwilled titillation in her blood.
                        Her eyes brightened. It was just possible that she could come to love a man like this, although
                        it would be hard. It would serve Cowperwood right for neglecting her. Yet even now the shadow of
                        Cowperwood was over her, but also the desire for love and a full sex life.
                    
                    In the gambling-rooms was gathered an interested and fairly smart throngactors,
                        actresses, clubmen, one or two very emancipated women of the high local social world, and a
                        number of more or less gentlemanly young gamblers. Both Lord and McKibben began suggesting
                        column numbers for first plays to their prot$eAg$eAs, while Lynde leaned caressingly over
                        Aileen's powdered shoulders. "Let me put this on quatre premier for
                        you," he suggested, throwing down a twenty-dollar gold piece.
                    "Oh but let it be my money," complained Aileen. "I want to
                        play with my money. I won't feel that it's mine if I don't."
                    "Very well, but you can't just now. You can't play with
                        bills." She was extracting a crisp roll from her purse. "I'll have to
                        exchange them later for you for gold. You can pay me then. He's going to call now,
                        anyhow. There you are. He's done it. Wait a moment. You may win." And he
                        paused to study the little ball as it circled round and round above the receiving pockets.
                    "Let me see. How much do I get if I win quatre premier?" She was
                        trying to recall her experiences abroad.
                    "Ten for one," replied Lynde; "but you didn't get
                        it. Let's try it once more for luck. It comes up every so oftenonce in ten or twelve.
                        I've made it often on a first play. How long has it been since the last quatre
                        premier?" he asked of a neighbor whom he recognized.
                    "Seven, I think, Polk. Six or seven. How's tricks?"
                    "Oh, so so." He turned again to Aileen. "It ought to come
                        up now soon. I always make it a rule to double my plays each time. It gets you back all
                        you've lost, some time or other." He put down two twenties.
                    "Goodness," she exclaimed, "that will be two hundred! I
                        had forgotten that."
                    Just then the call came for all placements to cease, and Aileen directed her
                        attention to the ball. It circled and circled in its dizzy way and then suddenly dropped.
                    "Lost again," commented Lynde. "Well, now we'll
                        make it eighty," and he threw down four twenties. "Just for luck
                        we'll put something on thirty-six, and thirteen, and nine. With an easy air he laid one
                        hundred dollars in gold on each number.
                    
                    Aileen liked his manner. This was like Frank. Lynde had the cool spirit of a plunger.
                        His father, recognizing his temperament, had set over a large fixed sum to be paid to him
                        annually. She recognized, as in Cowperwood, the spirit of adventure, only working out in another
                        way. Lynde was perhaps destined to come to some startlingly reckless end, but what of it? He was
                        a gentleman. His position in life was secure. That had always been Aileen's sad, secret
                        thought. Hers had not been and might never be now.
                    "Oh, I'm getting foozled already," she exclaimed, gaily
                        reverting to a girlhood habit of clapping her hands. "How much will I win if I
                        win?" The gesture attracted attention even as the ball fell.
                    "By George, you have it!" exclaimed Lynde, who was watching the
                        croupier. "Eight hundred, two hundred, two hundred"he was counting to
                        himself"but we lose thirteen. Very good, that makes us nearly one thousand ahead,
                        counting out what we put down. Rather nice for a beginning, don't you think? Now, if
                        you'll take my advice you'll not play quatre premier any more for a while.
                        Suppose you double a thirteenyou lost on thatand play Bates's formula. I'll
                        show you what that is."
                    Already, because he was known to be a plunger, Lynde was gathering a few spectators
                        behind him, and Aileen, fascinated, and not knowing these mysteries of chance, was content to
                        watch him. At one stage of the playing Lynde leaned over and, seeing her smile, whispered:
                    "What adorable hair and eyes you have! You glow like a great rose. You have
                        a radiance that is wonderful."
                    "Oh, Mr. Lynde! How you talk! Does gambling always affect you this
                        way?"
                    "No, you do. Always, apparently!" And he stared hard into her
                        upturned eyes. Still playing ostensibly for Aileen's benefit, he now doubled the cash
                        deposit on his system, laying down a thousand in gold. Aileen urged him to play for himself and
                        let her watch. "I'll just put a little money on these odd numbers here and
                        there, and you play any system you want. How will that do?"
                    "No, not at all," he replied, feelingly. "You're
                        my luck. I play with you. You keep the gold for me. I'll make you a fine present if I
                        win. The losses are mine."
                    
                    "Just as you like. I don't know really enough about it to play. But
                        I surely get the nice present if you win?"
                    "You do, win or lose," he murmured. "And now you put the
                        money on the numbers I call. Twenty on seven. Eighty on thirteen. Eighty on thirty. Twenty on
                        nine. Fifty on twenty-four." He was following a system of his own, and in obedience
                        Aileen's white, plump arm reached here and there while the spectators paused, realizing
                        that heavier playing was being done by this pair than by any one else. Lynde was plunging for
                        effect. He lost a thousand and fifty dollars at one clip.
                    "Oh, all that good money!" exclaimed Aileen, mock-pathetically, as
                        the croupier raked it in.
                    "Never mind, we'll get it back," exclaimed Lynde, throwing
                        two one-thousand-dollar bills to the cashier. "Give me gold for those."
                    The man gave him a double handful, which he put down between Aileen's white
                        arms.
                    "One hundred on two. One hundred on four. One hundred on six. One hundred on
                        eight."
                    The pieces were five-dollar gold pieces, and Aileen quickly built up the little
                        yellow stacks and shoved them in place. Again the other players stopped and began to watch the
                        odd pair. Aileen's red-gold head, and pink cheeks, and swimming eyes, her body swathed
                        in silks and rich laces; and Lynde, erect, his shirt bosom snowy white, his face dark, almost
                        coppery, his eyes and hair blackthey were indeed a strikingly assorted pair.
                    "What's this? What's this?" asked Grier, coming
                        up. "Who's plunging? You, Mrs. Cowperwood?"
                    "Not plunging," replied Lynde, indifferently.
                        "We're merely working out a formulaMrs. Cowperwood and I. We're doing
                        it together."
                    Aileen smiled. She was in her element at last. She was beginning to shine. She was
                        attracting attention.
                    "One hundred on twelve. One hundred on eighteen. One hundred on
                        twenty-six."
                    "Good heavens, what are you up to, Lynde?" exclaimed Lord, leaving
                        Mrs. Rhees and coming over. She followed. Strangers also were gathering. The business of the
                        place  was at its topmost tossit being two
                        o'clock in the morningand the rooms were full.
                    "How interesting!" observed Miss Lanman, at the other end of the
                        table, pausing in her playing and staring. McKibben, who was beside her, also paused.
                        "They're plunging. Do look at all the money! Goodness, isn't she
                        daring-lookingand he?" Aileen's shining arm was moving deftly, showily about.
                    "Look at the bills he's breaking!" Lynde was taking out a
                        thick layer of fresh, yellow bills which he was exchanging for gold. "They make a
                        striking pair, don't they?"
                    The board was now practically covered with Lynde's gold in quaint little
                        stacks. He had followed a system called Mazarin, which should give him five for one, and
                        possibly break the bank. Quite a crowd swarmed about the table, their faces glowing in the
                        artificial light. The exclamation "plunging!" "plunging!"
                        was to be heard whispered here and there. Lynde was delightfully cool and straight. His lithe
                        body was quite erect, his eyes reflective, his teeth set over an unlighted cigarette. Aileen was
                        excited as a child, delighted to be once more the center of comment. Lord looked at her with
                        sympathetic eyes. He liked her. Well, let her be amused. It was good for her now and then; but
                        Lynde was a fool to make a show of himself and risk so much money.
                    "Table closed!" called the croupier, and instantly the little ball
                        began to spin. All eyes followed it. Round and round it wentAileen as keen an observer as any.
                        Her face was flushed, her eyes bright.
                    "If we lose this," said Lynde, "we will make one more bet
                        double, and then if we don't win that we'll quit." He was already out
                        nearly three thousand dollars.
                    "Oh yes, indeed! Only I think we ought to quit now. Here goes two thousand
                        if we don't win. Don't you think enough? I haven't brought you much
                        luck, have I?"
                    "You are luck," he whispered. "All the luck I want. One
                        more. Stand by me for one more try, will you? If we win I'll quit."
                    The little ball clicked even as she nodded, and the  croupier, paying out on a few small stacks here and there raked all the rest
                        solemnly into the receiving orifice, while murmurs of sympathetic dissatisfaction went up here
                        and there.
                    "How much did they have on the board?" asked Miss Lanman of
                        McKibben, in surprise. "It must have been a great deal, wasn't it?"
                    "Oh, two thousand dollars, perhaps. That isn't so high here,
                        though. People do plunge for as much as eight or ten thousand. It all depends."
                        McKibben was in a belittling, depreciating mood.
                    "Oh yes, but not often, surely."
                    "For the love of heavens, Polk!" exclaimed Rhees Grier, coming up
                        and plucking at his sleeve; "if you want to give your money away give it to me. I can
                        gather it in just as well as that croupier, and I'll go get a truck and haul it home,
                        where it will do some good. It's perfectly terrible the way you are carrying
                        on."
                    Lynde took his loss with equanimity. "Now to double it," he
                        observed, "and get all our losses back, or go downstairs and have a rarebit and some
                        champagne. What form of a present would please you best?but never mind. I know a souvenir for
                        this occasion."
                    He smiled and bought more gold. Aileen stacked it up showily, if a little
                        repentantly. She did not quite approve of thishis plungingand yet she did; she could not help
                        symphathizing with the plunging spirit. In a few moments it was on the boardthe same
                        combination, the same stacks, only doubledfour thousand all told. The croupier called, the ball
                        rolled and fell. Barring three hundred dollars returned, the bank took it all.
                    "Well, now for a rarebit," exclaimed Lynde, easily, turning to
                        Lord, who stood behind him smiling. "You haven't a match, have you?
                        We've had a run of bad luck, that's sure."
                    Lynde was secretly the least bit disgruntled, for if he had won he had intended to
                        take a portion of the winnings and put it in a necklace or some other gewgaw for Aileen. Now he
                        must pay for it. Yet there was some satisfaction in having made an impression as a calm and
                        indifferent, though heavy loser. He gave Aileen his arm.
                    
                    "Well, my lady," he observed, "we didn't win; but
                        we had a little fun out of it, I hope? That combination, if it had come out, would have set us
                        up handsomely. Better luck next time eh?"
                    He smiled genially.
                    "Yes, but I was to have been your luck, and I wasn't,"
                        replied Aileen.
                    "You are all the luck I want, if you're willing to be. Come to the
                        Richelieu to-morrow with me for lunchwill you?"
                    "Let me see," replied Aileen, who, observing his ready and somewhat
                        iron fervor, was doubtful. "I can't do that," she said, finally,
                        "I have another engagement."
                    "How about Tuesday, then?"
                    Aileen, realizing or a sudden that she was making much of a situation that ought to
                        be handled with a light had, answered readily: "Very wellTuesday! Only call me up
                        before. I may have to change my mind or the time And she smiled good-naturedly.
                    After this Lynde had no opportunity to talk to Aileen privately; but in saying good
                        night he ventured to press her arm suggestively. She suffered a peculiar nervous thrill from
                        this, but decided curiously that she had brought it upon herself by her eagerness for life and
                        revenge, and must make up her mind. Did she or did she not wish to go on with this? This was the
                        question uppermost, and she felt that she must decide. However, as in most such cases,
                        circumstances were to help decide for her, and, unquestionably, a portion of this truth was in
                        her mind as shown gallantly to her door by Taylor Lord.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    MR. LYNDE TO THE RESCUE
                    THE interested appearance of a man like Polk Lynde at this stage of Aileen's
                        affairs was a bit of fortuitous or gratuitous humor on the part of fate, which is involved with
                        that subconscious chemistry of things of which as yet we know nothing. Here was Aileen brooding
                        over her Polk Lynde, an interesting, forceful Lothario of the city, who was perhaps as well
                        suited to her moods and her tastes at this time as any male outside of Cowperwood could be.
                    In many respects Lynde was a charming man. He was comparatively youngnot more than
                        Aileen's own ageschooled, if not educated, at one of the best American colleges, of
                        excellent taste in the matter of clothes, friends, and the details of living with which he chose
                        to surround him-self, but at heart a rake. He loved, and had from his youth up, to gamble. He
                        was in one phase of the word a hard and yet by no means a
                        self-destructive drinker, for he had an iron constitution and could consume spirituous waters
                        with the minimum of ill effect. He had what Gibbon was wont to call "the most amiable
                        of our vices," a passion for women, and he cared no more for the cool, patient, almost
                        penitent methods by which his father had built up the immense reaper business, of which he was
                        supposedly the heir, than he cared for the mysteries or sacred rights of the Chaldees. He
                        realized that the business itself was a splendid thing. He liked on occasion to think of it with
                        all its extent of ground-space, plain red-brick buildings, tall stacks and yelling whistles; but
                        he liked in no way to have anything to do with the rather commonplace routine of its
                        manipulation.
                    
                    The principal difficulty with Aileen under these circumstances, of course, was her
                        intense vanity and self-consciousness. Never was there a vainer or more sex troubled woman, why,
                        she asked herself, should she sit here in loneliness day after day, brooding about Cowperwood,
                        eating her heart out, while he was flitting about gathering the sweets of life elsewhere? Why
                        should she not offer her continued charms as a solace and a delight to other men who would
                        appreciate them? Would not such a policy have all the essentials of justice in it? Yet even now,
                        so precious had Cowperwood been to her hitherto, and so wonderful, that she was scarcely able to
                        think of serious disloyalty. He was so charming when he was niceso splendid. When Lynde sought
                        to hold her to the proposed luncheon engagement she at first declined. And there, under slightly
                        differing conditions, the matter might easily have stood. But it so happened that just at this
                        time Aileen was being almost daily harassed by additional evidence and reminders of
                        Cowperwood's infidelity.
                    For instance, going one day to call on the Haguenins for she was perfectly willing to
                        keep up the pretense of amity in so long as they had not found out the truthshe was informed
                        that Mrs. Haguenin was "not at home". Shortly thereafter the Press, which had always been favorable to Cowperwood, and which Aileen
                        regularly read because of its friendly comment, suddenly veered and began to attack him. There
                        were solemn suggestions at first that his policy and intentions might not be in accord with the
                        best interests of the city. A little later Haguenin printed editorials which referred to
                        Cowperwood as "the wrecker," "the Philadelphia adventurer,"
                        "a conscienceless promoter," and the like. Aileen guessed instantly what the
                        trouble was, but she was too disturbed as to her own position to make any comment. She could not
                        resolve the threats and menaces of Cowperwood's envious world any more than she could
                        see her way through her own grim difficulties.
                    One day, in scanning the columns of that faithful chronicle of Chicago social doings,
                        the Chicago Saturday Review, she came across an item which served
                        as a final blow. "For some time in high social circles," the paragraph ran,
                             "speculation has been rife as to the
                        amours and liaisons of a certain individual of great wealth and pseudo social prominence, who
                        once made a serious attempt to enter Chicago society. It is not necessary to name the man, for
                        all who are acquainted with recent events in Chicago will know who is meant. The latest rumor to
                        affect his already nefarious reputation relates to two womenone the daughter, and the other the
                        wife, of men of repute and standing in the community. In these latest instances it is more than
                        likely that he has arrayed influences of the greater importance socially and financially against
                        himself, for the husband in the one case and the father in the other are men of weight and
                        authority. The suggestion has more than once been made that Chicago should and eventually would
                        not tolerate his bucaneering methods in finance and social matters; but thus far no definite
                        action has been taken to cast him out. The crowning wonder of all is that the wife, who was
                        brought here from the East, and whoso rumor has itmade a rather scandalous sacrifice of her own
                        reputation and another woman's heart and home in order to obtain the privilege of
                        living with him, should continue so to do."
                    Aileen understood perfectly what was meant. "The father" of the
                        so-called "one" was probably Haguenin or Cochrane, more than likely Haguenin.
                        "The husband of the other"but who was the husband of the other? She had not
                        heard of any scandal with the wife of anybody. It could not be the case of Rita Sohlberg and her
                        husbandthat was too far back. It must be some new affair of which she had not the least inkling,
                        and so she sat and reflected. Now, she told herself, if she received another invitation from
                        Lynde she would accept it.
                    It was only a few days later that Aileen and Lynde met in the gold-room of the
                        Richelieu. Strange to relate, for one determined to be indifferent she had spent much time in
                        making a fetching toilet. It being February and chill with glittering snow on the ground, she
                        had chosen a dark-green broadcloth gown, quite new, with lapis-lazuli buttons that worked a
                        "Y" pattern across her bosom, a seal turban with an emerald plume which
                        complemented  a sealskin jacket with immense wrought
                        silver buttons, and bronze shoes. To perfect it all, Aileen had fastened lapislazuli ear-rings
                        of a small flower-form in her ears, and wore a plain, heavy gold bracelet. Lynde came up with a
                        look of keen approval written on his handsome brown face.
                    "Will you let me tell you how nice you look?" he said, sinking into
                        the chair opposite. "You show beautiful taste in choosing the right colors. Your
                        ear-rings go so well with your hair."
                    Although Aileen feared because of his desperateness, she was caught by his sleek
                        forcethat air of iron strength under a parlor mask. His long, brown, artistic hands, hard and
                        muscular, indicated an idle force that might be used in many ways. They harmonized with his
                        teeth and chin.
                    "So you came, didn't you?" he went on, looking at her
                        steadily, while she fronted his gaze boldly for a moment, only to look evasively down.
                    He still studied her carefully, looking at her chin and mouth and piquant nose. In
                        her colorful cheeks and strong arms and shoulders, indicated by her well-tailored suit, he
                        recognized the human vigor he most craved in a woman. By way of diversion he ordered an
                        old-fashioned whisky cocktail, urging her to join him. Finding her obdurate, he drew from his
                        pocket a little box.
                    "We agreed when we played the other night on a memento, didn't
                        we?" he said. "A sort of souvenir? Guess?"
                    Aileen looked at it a little nonplussed, recognizing the contents of the box to be
                        jewelry. "Oh, you shouldn't have done that," she protested.
                        "The understanding was that we were to win. You lost, and that ended the bargain. I
                        should have shared the losses. I haven't forgiven you for that yet, you know."
                    "How ungallant that would make me!" he said, smilingly, as he
                        trifled with the long, thin, lacquered case. "You wouldn't want to make me
                        ungallant, would you? Be a good fellowa good sport, as they say. Guess, and it's
                        yours."
                    Aileen pursed her lips at this ardent entreaty.
                    "Oh, I don't mind guessing," she commented, superiorly,
                        "though I sha'n't take it. It might be a pin, it might be a set of
                        ear-rings, it might be a bracelet"
                    
                    He made no comment, but opened it, revealing a necklace of gold wrought into the form
                        of a grape-vine of the most curious workmanship, with a cluster of leaves artistically carved
                        and arranged as a breastpiece, the center of them formed by a black opal, which shone with an
                        enticing luster. Lynde knew well enough that Aileen was familiar with many jewels, and that only
                        one of ornate construction and value would appeal to her sense of what was becoming to her. He
                        watched her face closely while she studied the details of the necklace.
                    "Isn't it exquisite!" she commented. "What a
                        lovely opalwhat an odd design." She went over the separate leaves. "You
                        shouldn't be so foolish. I couldn't take it. I have too many things as it is,
                        and besides" She was thinking of what she would say if Cowperwood chanced to ask her
                        where she got it. He was so intuitive.
                    "And besides?" he queried.
                    "Nothing," she replied, "except that I mustn't
                        take it, really."
                    "Won't you take it as a souvenir even ifour agreement, you
                        know."
                    "Even if what?" she queried.
                    "Even if nothing else comes of it. A memento, thentrulyyou know."
                    He laid hold of her fingers with his cool, vigorous ones.
                    A year before, even six months, Aileen would have released her hand smilingly. Now
                        she hesitated. Why should she be so squeamish with other men when Cowperwood was so unkind to
                        her?
                    "Tell me something," Lynde asked, noting the doubt and holding her
                        fingers gently but firmly, "do you care for me at all?"
                    "I like you, yes. I can't say that it is anything more than
                        that."
                    She flushed, though, in spite of herself.
                    He merely gazed at her with his hard, burning eyes. The materiality that accompanies
                        romance in so many temperaments awakened in her, and quite put Cowperwood out of her mind for
                        the moment. It was an astonishing and revolutionary experience for her. She quite burned in
                        reply, and Lynde smiled sweetly, encouragingly.
                    
                    "Why won't you be friends with me, my sweetheart? I know
                        you're not happyI can see that. Neither am I. I have a wreckless, wretched disposition
                        that gets me into all sorts of hell. I need some one to care for me. Why won't you?
                        You're just my sort. I feel it. Do you love him so much"he was referring to
                        Cowperwood"that you can't love any one else?"
                    "Oh, him!" retorted Aileen, irritably, almost disloyally.
                        "He doesn't care for me any more. He wouldn't mind. It isn't
                        him."
                    "Well, then, what is it? Why won't you? Am I not interesting
                        enough? Don't you like me? Don't you feel that I'm really suited to
                        you?" His hand sought hers softly.
                    Aileen accepted the caress.
                    "Oh, it isn't that," she replied, feelingly, running back
                        in her mind over her long career with Cowperwood, his former love, his keen protestations. She
                        had expected to make so much out of her life with him, and here she was sitting in a public
                        restaurant flirting with and extracting sympathy from a comparative stranger. It cut her to the
                        quick for the moment and sealed her lips. Hot, unbidden tears welled to her eyes.
                    Lynde saw them. He was really very sorry for her, though her beauty made him wish to
                        take advantage of her distress. "Why should you cry, dearest?" he asked,
                        softly, looking at her flushed cheeks and colorful eyes. "You have beauty; you are
                        young; you're lovely. He's not the only man in the world. Why should you be
                        faithful when he isn't faithful to you? This Hand affair is all over town. When you
                        meet some one that really would care for you, why shouldn't you? If he doesn't
                        want you, there are others."
                    At the mention of the Hand affair Aileen straightened up. "The Hand
                        affair?" she asked, curiously. "What is that?"
                    "Don't you know?" he replied, a little surprised.
                        "I thought you did, or I certainly wouldn't have mentioned it."
                    "Oh, I know about what it is,"
                        replied Aileen, wisely, and with a touch of sardonic humor. "There have been so  many of the same kind. I suppose it must be the case
                        the Chicago Review was referring tothe wife of the prominent
                        financier. Has he been trifling with Mrs. Hand?"
                    "Something like that," replied Lynde. "I'm sorry
                        that I spoke, thoughreally I am. I didn't mean to be carrying tales."
                    "Soldiers in a common fight, eh?" taunted Aileen, gaily.
                    "Oh, not that, exactly. Please don't be mean. I'm not so
                        bad. It's just a principle with me. We all have our little foibles."
                    "Yes, I know," replied Aileen; but her mind was running on Mrs.
                        Hand. So she was the latest. "Well, I admire his taste, anyway, in this case,"
                        she said, archly. "There have been so many, though. She is just one more."
                    Lynde smiled. He himself admired Cowperwood's taste. Then he dropped the
                        subject.
                    "But let's forget that," he said. "Please
                        don't worry about him any more. You can't change that. Pull yourself
                        together." He squeezed her fingers. "Will you?" he asked, lifting his
                        eyebrows in inquiry.
                    "Will I what?" replied Aileen, meditatively.
                    "Oh, you know. The necklace for one thing. Me, too." His eyes
                        coaxed and laughed and pleaded.
                    Aileen smiled. "You're a bad boy," she said, evasively.
                        This revelation in regard to Mrs. Hand had made her singularly retaliatory in spirit.
                        "Let me think. Don't ask me to take the necklace to-day. I couldn't.
                        I couldn't wear it, anyhow. Let me see you another time." She moved her plump
                        hand in an uncertain way, and he smoothed her wrist.
                    "I wonder if you wouldn't like to go around to the studio of a
                        friend of mine here in the tower?" he asked, quite nonchalantly. "He has such
                        a charming collection of landscapes. You're interested in pictures, I know. Your
                        husband has some of the finest."
                    Instantly Aileen understood what was meantquite by instinct. The alleged studio must
                        be private bachelor quarters.
                    "Not this afternoon," she replied, quite wrought up and  disturbed. "Not to-day. Another time. And
                        I must be going now. But I will see you."
                    "And this?" he asked, picking up the necklace.
                    "You keep it until I do come," she replied. "I may take it
                        then."
                    She relaxed a little, pleased that she was getting safely away; but her mood was
                        anything but antagonistic, and her spirits were as shredded as wind-whipped clouds. It was time
                        she wanteda little timethat was all.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    ENTER HOSMER HAND
                    IT is needless to say that the solemn rage of Hand, to say nothing of the pathetic
                        anger of Haguenin, coupled with the wrath of Redmond Purdy, who related to all his sad story,
                        and of young MacDonald and his associates of the Chicago General Company, constituted an
                        atmosphere highly charged with possibilities and potent for dramatic results. The most serious
                        element in this at present was Hosmer Hand, who being exceedingly wealthy and a director in a
                        number of the principal mercantile and financial institutions of the city, was in a position to
                        do Cowperwood some real financial harm. Hand had been extremely fond of his young wife. Being a
                        man of but few experiences with women, it astonished and enraged him that a man like Cowperwood
                        should dare to venture on his preserves in this reckless way, should take his dignity so
                        lightly. He burned now with a hot, slow fire of revenge.
                    Those who know a any thing concerning the financial world and its great adventures
                        know how precious is that reputation for probity, solidarity, and conservatism on which so many
                        of the successful enterprises of the world are based. If men are not absolutely honest
                        themselves they at least wish for and have faith in the honesty of others. No set of men know
                        more about each other, garner more carefully all the straws of rumor which may affect the
                        financial and social well being of an individual one way or another, keep a tighter mouth
                        concerning their own affairs and a sharper eye on that of their neighbors. Cowperwood's
                        credit had hitherto been good because it was known that he had a "soft thing"
                        in the Chicago street-railway field, that he paid his interest charges  promptly, that he had organized the group of men who now, under him,
                        controlled the Chicago Trust Company and the North and West Chicago Street Railways, and that
                        the Lake City Bank, of which Addison was still president, considered his collateral sound.
                        Nevertheless, even previous to this time there had been a protesting element m the shape of
                        Schryhart, Simms, and others of considerable import in the Douglas Trust, who had lost no chance
                        to say to one and all that Cowperwood was an interloper, and that his course was marked by
                        political and social trickery and chicanery, if not by financial dishonesty. As a matter of
                        fact, Schryhart, who had once been a director of the Lake City National along with Hand, Arneel,
                        and others, had resigned and withdrawn all his deposits sometime before because he found, as he
                        declared, that Addison was favoring Cowperwood and the Chicago Trust Company with loans, when
                        there was no need of so doingwhen it was not essentially advantageous for the bank so to do.
                        Both Arneel and Hand, having at this time no personal quarrel with Cowperwood on any socre, had
                        considered this protest as biased. Addison had maintained that the loans were neither unduly
                        large nor out of proportion to the general loans of the bank. The collateral offered was
                        excellent. "I don't want to quarrel with Schryhart," Addison had
                        protested at the time; "but I am afraid his charge is unfair. He is trying to vent a
                        private grudge through the Lake National. That is not the way nor this the place to do
                        it."
                    Both Hand and Arneel, sober men both, agreed with thisadmiring Addisonand so the case
                        stood. Schryhart, however, frequently intimated to them both that Cowperwood was merely building
                        up the Chicago Trust Company at the expense of the Lake City National, in order to make the
                        former strong enough to do without any aid, at which time Addison would resign and the Lake City
                        would be allowed to shift for itself. Hand had never acted on this suggestion but he had
                        thought.
                    It was not until the incidents relating to Cowperwood and Mrs. Hand had come to light
                        that things financial and otherwise began to darken up. Hand, being greatly hurt in his pride,
                        contemplated only severe reprisal. Meeting  Schryhart
                        at a directors' meeting one day not long after his difficulty had come upon him, he
                        remarked:
                    "I thought a few years ago, Norman, when you talked to me about this man
                        Cowperwood that you were merely jealousa dissatisfied business rival. Recently a few things have
                        come to my notice which cause me to think differently. It is very plain to me now that the man
                        is thoroughly badfrom the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. It's a pity the
                        city has to endure him."
                    "So you're just beginning to find that out, are you,
                        Hosmer?" answered Schryhart. "Well, I'll not say I told you so.
                        Perhaps you'll agree with me now that the responsible people of Chicago ought to do
                        something about it."
                    Hand, a very heavy, taciturn man, merely looked at him.
                    "I'll be ready enough to do," he said, "when I
                        see how and what's to be done."
                    A little later Schryhart, meeting Duane Kingsland, learned the true source of
                        Hand's feeling against Cowperwood, and was not slow in transferring this titbit to
                        Merrill, Simms, and others. Merrill, who, though Cowperwood had refused to extend his La Salle
                        Street tunnel loop about State Street and his store, had hitherto always liked him after a
                        fashionremotely admired his courage and daringwas now appropriately shocked.
                    "Why, Anson," observed Schryhart, "the man is no good. He
                        has the heart of a hyena and the friendliness of a scorpion. You heard how he treated Hand,
                        didn't you?"
                    "No," replied Merrill, "I didn't."
                    "Well, it's this way, so I hear." And Schryhart leaned
                        over and confidentially communicated considerable information into Mr. Merrill's left
                        ear.
                    The latter raised his eyebrows. "Indeed!" he said.
                    "And the way he came to meet her," added Schryhart, contemptuously,
                        "was this. He went to Hand originally to borrow two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
                        on West Chicago Street Railway. Angry? The word is no name for it."
                    "You don't say so," commented Merrill, dryly, though
                        privately interested and fascinated, for Mrs. Hand had always seemed very attractive to him.
                        "I don't wonder."
                    
                    He recalled that his own wife had recently insisted on inviting Cowperwood once.
                    Similarly Hand, meeting Arneel not so long afterward, confided to him that Cowperwood
                        was trying to repudiate a sacred agreement. Arneel was grieved and surprised. It was enough for
                        him to know that Hand had been seriously injured. Between the two of them they now decided to
                        indicate to Addison, as president of the Lake City Bank, that all relations with Cowperwood and
                        the Chicago Trust Company must cease. The result of this was, not long after, that Addison, very
                        suave and gracious, agreed to give Cowperwood due warning that all his loans would have to be
                        taken care of and then resignedto become, seven months later, president of the Chicago Trust
                        Company. This desertion created a great stir at the time, astonishing the very men who had
                        suspected that it might come to pass. The papers were full of it.
                    "Well, let him go," observed Arneel to Hand, sourly, on the day
                        that Addison notified the board of directors of the Lake City of his contemplated resignation.
                        "If he wants to sever his connection with a bank like this to go with a man like that,
                        it's his own lookout. He may live to regret it."
                    It so happened that by now another election was pending in Chicago, and Hand, along
                        with Schryhart and Arneelwho joined their forces because of his friendship for Handdecided to
                        try to fight Cowperwood through this means.
                    Hosmer Hand, feeling that he had the burden of a great duty upon him, was not slow in
                        acting. He was always, when aroused, a determined and able fighter. Needing an able lieutenant
                        in the impending political conflict, he finally bethought himself of a man who had recently come
                        to figure somewhat conspicuously in Chicago politicsone Patrick Gilgan, the same Patrick Gilgan
                        of Cowperwood's old Hyde Park gas-war days. Mr. Gilgan was now a comparatively
                        well-to-do man. Owing to a genial capacity for mixing with people, a close mouth, and absolutely
                        no understanding of, and consequently no conscience in matters of large public import (in so far
                        as they related to the so-called rights of the mass),  he was a fit individual to succeed politically. His saloon was the finest in all Wentworth
                        Avenue. It fairly glittered with the newly introduced incandescent lamp reflected in a perfect
                        world of beveled and faceted mirrors. His ward, or district, was full of low, rain-beaten
                        cottages crowded together along half-made streets; but Patrick Gilgan was now a state senator,
                        slated for Congress at the next Congressional election, and a possible successor of the Hon.
                        John J. McKenty as dictator of the city, if only the Republican party should come into power.
                        (Hyde Park, before it had been annexed to the city, had always been Republican, and since then,
                        although the larger city was normally Democratic, Gilgan could not conveniently change,) Hearing
                        from the political discussion which preceded the election that Gilgan was by far the most
                        powerful politician on the South Side, Hand sent for him. "Personally"
                        'Hand had far less sympathy with the polite moralistic efforts of men like Haguenin,
                        Hyssop, and OTHERS, who were content to preach morality and strive to win by the efforts of the
                        unco good, than he had with the cold political logic of a man like Cowperwood himself. If
                        Cowperwood could work through McKenty to such a powerful end, he, Hand, could find some one else
                        who could be made as powerful as McKenty.
                    "Mr. Gilgan," said Hand, when the Irishman came in, medium tall,
                        beefy, with shrewd, twinkling gray eyes and hairy hands, "you don't know
                        me"
                    "I know of you well enough," smiled
                        the Irishman, with a soft brogue. "You don't need an introduction to talk to
                        me."
                    "Very good," replied Hand, extending his hand. "I know of
                        you, too. Then we can talk. It's the political situation here in Chicago I'd
                        like to discuss with you. I'm not a politician myself, but I take some interest in
                        what's going on. I want to know what you think will be the probable outcome of the
                        present situation here in the city."
                    Gilgan, having no reason for laying his private political convictions bare to any one
                        whose motive he did not know, merely replied: "Oh, I think the Republicans may have a
                        pretty good show. They have all but one or two of the papers with them, I see. I don't
                        know much outside of what I read and hear people talk."
                    
                    Mr. Hand knew that Gilgan was sparring, and was glad to find his man canny and
                        calculating.
                    "I haven't asked you to come here just to be talking over politics
                        in general, as you may imagine, Mr. Gilgan. I want to put a particular problem before you. Do
                        you happen to know either Mr. McKenty or Mr. Cowperwood?"
                    "I never met either of them to talk to." replied Gilgan. I know Mr.
                        McKenty by sight, and I've seen Mr. Cowperwood once." He said no more.
                    "Well," said Mr. Hand, "suppose a group of influential men
                        here in Chicago were to get together and guarantee sufficient funds for a city-wide campaign;
                        now, if you had the complete support of the newspapers and the Republican organization in the
                        bargain, could you organize the opposition here so that the Democratic party could be beaten
                        this fall? I'm not talking about the mayor merely and the principal city officers, but
                        the council, toohe aldermen. I want to fix things so that the McKenty-Cowperwood crowd
                        couldn't get an alderman or a city official to sell out, once they are elected. I want
                        the Democratic party beaten so thoroughly that there won't be any question in
                        anybody's mind as to the fact that it has been done. There will be plenty of money
                        forthcoming if you can prove to me, or, rather, to the group of men I am thinking of, that the
                        thing can be done."
                    Mr. Gilgan blinked his eyes solemnly. He rubbed his knees, put his thumbs in the
                        armholes of his vest, took out a cigar, lit it, and gazed poetically at the ceiling. He was
                        thinking very, very hard. Mr. Cowperwood and Mr. McKenty, as he knew, were very powerful men. He
                        had always managed to down the McKenty opposition in his ward, and several others adjacent to
                        it, and in the Eighteenth Senatorial District, which he represented. But to be called upon to
                        defeat him in Chicago, that was different. Still, the thought of a large amount of cash to be
                        distributed through him, and the chance of wresting the city leadership from McKenty by the aid
                        of the so-called moral forces of the city, was very inspiring. Mr. Gilgan was a good politician.
                        He loved to scheme and plot and make dealsas much for the fun of it as anything else. Just now
                        he drew a solemn face, which, however, concealed a very light heart.
                    
                    "I have heard," went on Hand, "that you have built UP a
                        strong organization in your ward and district."
                    "I've managed to hold me own," suggested Gilgan, archly.
                        "But this winning all over Chicago," he went on, after a moment,
                        "now, that's a pretty large order. There are thirty-one wards in Chicago this
                        election, and all but eight of them are nominally Democratic. I know most of the men that are in
                        them now, and some of them are pretty shrewd men, too. This man Dowling in council is
                        nobody's fool, let me tell you that. Then there's Duvanicki and Ungerich and
                        Tiernan and Kerriganall good men. He mentioned four of the most powerful and crooked aldermen in
                        the city. "You see, Mr. Hand, the way things are now the Democrats have the offices,
                        and the small jobs to give out. That gives them plenty of political workers to begin with. Then
                        they have the privilege of collecting money from those in office to help elect themselves.
                        That's another great privilege." He smiled. "Then this man Cowperwood
                        employs all of ten thousand men at present, and any ward boss that's favorable to him
                        can send a man out of work to him and he'll find a place for him. That's a
                        gre-a-eat help in building up a party following. Then there's the money a man like
                        Cowperwood and others can contribute at election time. Say what you will Mr. Hand, but
                        it's the two, and five, and ten dollar bills paid out at the last moment over the
                        saloon bars and at the polling-places that do the work. Give me enough money"and at
                        this noble thought Mr. Gilgan straightened up and slapped one fist lightly in the other,
                        adjusting at the same time his half-burned cigar so that it should not burn his
                        hand"and I can carry every ward in Chicago, bar none, If I nave money enough,"
                        he repeated, emphasizing the last two words. Hw put his cigar back in his mouth, blinked his
                        eyes defiantly, and leaned back in his chair.
                    "Very good," commented Hand, simply; "but how much
                        money?"
                    "Ah, that's another question," replied Gilgan,
                        straightening up once more. "Some wards require more than others. Counting out the
                        eight that are normally Republican as safe, you would have to carry eighteen others to  have a majority in council. I don't see how
                        anything under ten to fifteen thousand dollars to a ward would be safe to go on. I should say
                        three hundred thousand dollars would be safer, and that wouldn't be any too much by Any
                        means."
                    Mr. Gilgan restored his cigar and puffed heavily the while he leaned back and lifted
                        his eyes once more.
                    "And how would that money be distributed exactly?" inquired Mr.
                        Hand.
                    "Oh, well, it's never wise to look into such matters too
                        closely," commented Mr. Gilgan, comfortably. "There's such a thing as
                        cutting your cloth too close in politics. There are ward captains, leaders, block captains,
                        workers. They all have to have money to do withto work up sentimentand you can't be too
                        inquiring as to just how they do it. it's spent in saloons, and buying coal for mother,
                        and getting Johnnie a new suit here and there. Then there are torch-light processions and
                        club-rooms and jobs to look after. Sure, there's plenty of places for it. Some men may
                        have to be brought into these wards to livekept in boarding-houses for a week or ten
                        days." He waved a hand deprecatingly.
                    Mr. Hand, who had never busied himself with the minutiae of politics, opened his eyes
                        slightly. This colonizing idea was a little liberal, he thought.
                    "Who distributes this money?" he asked, finally.
                    "Nominally, the Republican County Committee, if it's in charge;
                        actually, the man or men who are leading the fight. In the case of the Democratic party
                        it's John J. McKenty, and don't you forget it. In my district it's
                        me, and no one else."
                    Mr. Hand, slow, solid, almost obtuse at times, meditated under lowering brows. He had
                        always been associated with a more or less silk-stocking crew who were unused to the rough usage
                        of back-room saloon politics, yet every one suspected vaguely, of course, at times that
                        ballot-boxes were stuffed and ward lodging-houses colonized. Every one (at least every one of
                        any worldly intelligence) knew that political capital was collected from office-seekers,
                        office-holders, beneficiaries of all sorts and conditions under the reigning city
                        administration. Mr. Hand had himself  contributed
                        to the Republican party for favors received or about to be. As a man who had been compelled to
                        handle large affairs in a large way he was not inclined to quarrel with this. Three hundred
                        thousand dollars was a large sum, and he was not inclined to subscribe it alone, but fancied
                        that at his recommendation and with his advice it could be raised. Was Gilgan the man to fight
                        Cowperwood? He looked him over and decidedother things being equalthat he was. And forthwith the
                        bargain was struck. Gilgan, as a Republican central committeemanchairman, possiblywas to visit
                        every ward, connect up with every available Republican force, pick strong, suitable
                        anti-Cowperwood candidates, and try to elect them, while he, hand, organized the money element
                        and collected the necessary cash. Gilgan was to be given money personally. He was to have the
                        undivided if secret support of all the high Republican elements in the city. His business was to
                        win at almost any cost. And as a reward he was to have the Republican support for Congress, or,
                        failing that, the practical Republican leadership in city and county.
                    "Anyhow," said Hand, after Mr. Gilgan finally took his departure,
                        "things won't be so easy for Mr. Cowperwood in the future as they were in the
                        past. And when it comes to getting his franchises renewed, if I'm alive, we'll
                        see whether he will he will or not."
                    The heavy financier actually growled a low growl as he spoke out loud to himself. He
                        felt a boundless rancor toward the man who had, as he supposed, alienated the affections of his
                        smart young wife.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    A POLITICAL AGREEMENT
                    IN the first and second wards of Chicago at this time wards including the business
                        heart, South Clark Street, the water-front, the river-levee, and the likewere two men, Michael
                        (alias Smiling Mike) Tiernan and Patrick (alias Emerald Pat) Kerrigan, who, for picturequeness
                        of character and sordidness of atmosphere, could not be equaled elsewhere in the city, if in the
                        nation at large. "Smiling" Mike Tiernan, proud possessor of four of the
                        largest and filthiest saloons of this area, was a man of large and genial mold perhaps six feet
                        one inch in height, broad-shouldered in proportion, with a bovine head, bullet-shaped from one
                        angle, and big, healthy, hairy hands and large feet. He had done many things from digging in a
                        ditch to occupying a seat in the city council from this his beloved ward, which he sold out
                        regularly for one purpose and another; but his chief present joy consisted in sitting behind a
                        solid mahogany railing at a rosewood desk in the back portion of his largest Clark Street
                        hostelry"The Silver Moon." Here he counted up the returns from his various
                        propertiessaloons, gambling resorts, and houses of prosrimrionwhich he manipulated with the
                        connivance or blinking courtesy of the present administration, and listened to the pleas and
                        demands of his henchmen and tenants.
                    The character of Mr. Kerrigan, Mr. Tiernan's only rival in this rather
                        difficult and sordid region, was somewhat different. He was a small man, quite dapper, with a
                        lean, hollow and somewhat haggard face, but by no means sickly body, a large, strident mustache,
                        a wealth of coal-black hair parted slickly on one side, and a shrewd, genial brown-black
                        eyeconstituting altogether a rather pleasing  and
                        ornate figure whom it was not at all unsatisfactory to meet. His eats were large and stood out
                        bat-wise from his head; and his eyes gleamed with a smart, evasive light. He was cleverer
                        financially than Tiernan, richer, and no more than thirty-five, whereas Mr. Tiernan was
                        forty-five years of age. Like Mr. Tiernan in the first ward, Mr. Kerrigan was a power in the
                        second, and controlled a most useful and dangerous floating vote. His saloons harbored the
                        largest floating element that was to be found in the citylongshoremen, railroad hands,
                        stevedores, tramps, thugs, thieves, pimps, rounders, detectives, and the like. He was very vain,
                        considered himself handsome, a "killer" with the ladies. Married, and with two
                        children and a sedate young wife, he still had his mistress, who changed from year to year, and
                        his intermediate girls. His clothes were altogether noteworthy, but it was his pride to eschew
                        jewelry, except for one enormous emerald, value fourteen thousand dollars, which he wore in his
                        necktie on occasions, and the wonder of which, pervading all Dearborn Street and the city
                        council, had won him the soubriquet of "Emerald Pat." At first he rejoiced
                        heartily in this title, as he did in a gold and diamond medal awarded him by a Chicago brewery
                        for selling the largest number of barrels of beer of any saloon in Chicago. More recently, the
                        newspapers having begun to pay humorous attention to both himself and Mr. Tiernan, because of
                        their prosperity and individuality, he resented it.
                    The relation of these two men to the present political situation was peculiar, and as
                        it turned out, was to constitute the weak spot in the Cowperwood-McKenty campaign. Tiernan and
                        Kerrigan, to begin with, being neighbors and friends, worked together in politics and business,
                        on occasions pooling their issues and doing each other favors. The enterprises in which they
                        were engaged being low and shabby, they needed counsel and consolation. Infinitely beneath a man
                        like McKenty in understanding and a politic grasp of life, they were, nevertheless, as they
                        prospered, somewhat jealous of him and his high estate. They saw with speculative and somewhat
                        jealous eyes how, after his union with Cowperwood, he grew and how he managed to work his will
                        in many waysby extracting tolls  from the police
                        department, and heavy annual campaign contributions from manufacturers favored by the city gas
                        and water departments. McKentya born manipulator in this respectknew where political funds were
                        to be had in an hour of emergency, and he did not hesitate to demand them. Tiernan and Kerrigan
                        had always been fairly treated by him as politics go; but they had never as yet been included in
                        his inner council of plotters. When he was down-town on one errand or another, he stopped in at
                        their places to shake hands with them, to inquire after business, to ask if there was any favor
                        he could do them; but never did he stoop to ask a favor of them or personally to promise any
                        form of reward. That was the business of Dowling and others through whom he worked.
                    Naturally men of strong, restive, animal disposition, finding no complete outlet for
                        all their growing capacity, Tiernan and Kerrigan were both curious to see in what way they could
                        add to their honors and emoluments. Their wards, more than any in the city, were increasing in
                        what might be called a vote-piling capacity, the honest, legitimate vote not being so large, but
                        the opportunities afforded for colonizing, repeating, and ballot-box stuffing being immense. In
                        a doubtful mayoralty campaign the first and second wards alone, coupled with a portion of the
                        third adjoining them, would register sufficient illegitimate votes (after voting-hours, if
                        necessary) to completely change the complexion of the city as to the general officers nominated.
                        Large amounts of money were sent to Tiernan and Kerrigan around election time by the Democratic
                        County Committee to be disposed of as they saw fit. They merely sent in a rough estimate of how
                        much they would need, and always received a little more than they asked for. They never made nor
                        were asked to make accounting afterward. Tiernan would receive as high as fifteen and eighteen,
                        Kerrigan sometimes as much as twenty to twenty-five thousand dollars, his being the pivotal ward
                        under such circumstances.
                    McKenty had recently begun to recognize that these two men would soon have to be
                        given fuller consideration, for they were becoming more or less influential. But how? Their
                        personalities, let alone the reputation  of their
                        wards and the methods they employed, were not such as to command public confidence. In the mean
                        time, owing to the tremendous growth of the city, the growth of their own private business, and
                        the amount of ballot-box stuffing, repeating, and the like which was required of them, they were
                        growing more and more restless. Why should not they be slated for higher offices? they now
                        frequently asked themselves. Tiernan would have been delighted to have been nominated for
                        sheriff or city treasurer. He considered himself eminently qualified. Kerrigan at the last city
                        convention had privately urged on Dowling the wisdom of nominating him for the position of
                        commissioner of highways and sewers, which office he was anxious to obtain because of its
                        reported commercial perquisites; but this year, of all times, owing to the need of nominating an
                        unblemished ticket to defeat the sharp Republican opposition, such a nomination was not
                        possible. It would have drawn the fire of all the respectable elements in the city. As a result
                        both Tiernan and Kerrigan, thinking over their services, past and future, felt very much
                        disgruntled. They were really not large enough mentally to understand how dangerousoutside of
                        certain fields of activitythey were to the party.
                    After his conference with Hand, Gilgan, going about the city with the promise of
                        ready cash on his lips, was able to arouse considerable enthusiasm for the Republican cause. In
                        the wards and sections where the so-called "better element" prevailed it
                        seemed probable, because of the heavy moral teaching of the newspapers, that the respectable
                        vote would array itself almost solidly this time against Cowperwood. In the poorer wards it
                        would not be so easy. True, it was possible, by a sufficient outlay of cash, to find certain
                        hardy bucaneers who could be induced to knife their own brothers, but the result was not
                        certain. Having heard through one person and another of the disgruntled mood of both Kerrigan
                        and Tiernan, and recognizing himself, even if he was a Republican, to be a man much more of
                        their own stripe than either McKenty or Dowling, Gilgan decided to visit that lusty pair and see
                        what could be done by way of alienating them from the present center of power.
                    
                    After due reflection he first sought out "Emerald Pat" Kerrigan,
                        whom he knew personally but with whom he was by no means intimate politically, at his
                        "Emporium Bar" in Dearborn Street. This particular saloon, a feature of
                        political Chicago at this time, was a large affair containing among other marvelous saloon
                        fixtures a circular bar of cherry wood twelve feet in diameter, which glowed as a small mountain
                        with the customary plain and colored glasses, bottles, labels, and mirrors. The floor was a
                        composition of small, shaded red-and-green marbles; the ceiling a daub of pinky, fleshy nudes
                        floating among diaphanous clouds; the walls were alternate panels of cerise and brown set in
                        rosewood. Mr. Kerrigan, when other duties were not pressing, was usually to be found standing
                        chatting with several friends and surveying the wonders of his bar trade, which was very large.
                        On the day of Mr. Gilgan's call he was resplendent in a dark-brown suit with a fine red
                        stripe in it, Cordovan leather shoes, a wine-colored tie ornamented with the emerald of so much
                        renown, and a straw hat of flaring proportions and novel weave. About his waist, in lieu of a
                        waistcoat, was fastened one of the eccentricities of the day, a manufactured silk sash. He
                        formed an interesting contrast with Mr. Gilgan, who now came up very moist, pink, and warm, in a
                        fine, light tweed of creamy, showy texture, straw hat, and yellow shoes.
                    "How are you, Kerrigan?" he observed, genially, there being no
                        political enmity between them. "How's the first, and how's trade? I
                        see you haven't lost the emerald yet?"
                    "No. No danger of that. Oh, trade's all right. And so's
                        the first. How' Mr. Gilgan?" Kerrigan extended his hand cordially.
                    "I have a word to say to you. Have you any time to spare?"
                    For answer Mr. Kerrigan led the way into the back room. Already he had heard rumors
                        of a strong Republican opposition at the coming election.
                    Mr. Gilgan sat down. "It's about things this fall I've
                        come to see you, of course," he began, smilingly. "You and I are supposed to
                        be on opposite sides of the fence,  and we are as a
                        rule, but I am wondering whether we need be this time or not?"
                    Mr. Kerrigan, shrewd though seemingly simple, fixed him with an amiable eye.
                        "What's your scheme?" he said. "I'm always open to
                        a good idea."
                    "Well, it's just this," began Mr. Gilgan, feeling his way.
                        "You have a fine big ward here that you carry in your vest pocket, and so has Tiernan,
                        as we all know; and we all know, too, that if it wasn't for what you and him can do
                        there wouldn't always be a Democratic mayor elected. Now, I have an idea, from looking
                        into the thing, that neither you nor Tiernan have got as much out of it so far as you might
                        have."
                    Mr. Kerrigan was too cautious to comment as to that, though Mr. Gilgan paused for a
                        moment.
                    " Now, I have a plan, as I say, and you can take it or leave it, just as you
                        want, and no hard feelings one way or the other. I think the Republicans are going to win this
                        fallMcKenty or no McKentyfirst, second, hand third wards with us or not, as they choose. The
                        doings of the big fellow"he was referring to McKenty"with the other fellow in
                        North Clark Street"Mr. Gilgan preferred to be a little enigmatic at times"are
                        very much in the wind just now. You see how the papers stand. I happen to know where
                        there's any quantity of money coming into the game from big financial quarters who have
                        no use for this railroad man. It's a solid La Salle and Dearborn Street line-up, so far
                        as I can see. Why, I don't know. But so it is. Maybe you know better than I do. Anyhow,
                        that's the way it stands now. Add to that the fact that there are eight naturally
                        Republican wards as it is, and ten more where there is always a fighting chance, and you begin
                        to see what I'm driving at. Count out these last ten, though, and bet only on the eight
                        that are sure to stand. That leaves twenty-three wards that we Republicans always conceded to
                        you people; but if we manage to carry thirteen of them along with the eight I'm talking
                        about, we'll have a majority in council, and"flick! he snapped his
                        fingers"out you goyou, McKenty, Cowperwood, and all the rest. No more franchises, no
                        more street-paving contracts, no more gas deals. Nothingfor two years,  anyhow, and maybe longer. If we win we'll take the jobs and
                        the fat deals." He paused and surveyed Kerrigan cheerfully but defiantly.
                    "Now, I've just been all over the city," he continued, in
                        every ward and precinct, so I know something of what I am talking about. I have the men and the
                        cash to put up a fight all along the line this time. This fall we winme and the big fellows over
                        there in La Salle Street, and all the Republicans or Democrats or Prohibitionists, or whoever
                        else comes in with usdo you get me? We're going to put up the biggest political fight
                        Chicago has ever seen. I'm not naming any names just yet, but when the time comes
                        you'll see. Now, what I want to ask of you is this, and I'll not mince me
                        words nor beat around the bush. Will you and Tiernan corm in with me and Edstrom to take over
                        the city and run it during the next two years? If you will, we can win hands down. It will be a
                        case of share and share alike on everythingpolice, gas, water, highways, street-railways,
                        everythingor we'll divide beforehand and put it down in black and white. I know that
                        you and Tiernan work together, or I wouldn't talk about this. Edstrom has the Swedes
                        where he wants them, and he'll poll twenty thousand of them this fall. There's
                        Ungerich with his Germans; one of us might make a deal with him afterward, give him most any
                        office he wants. If we win this time we can hold the city for six or eight years anyhow, most
                        likely, and after that well, there's no use lookin' too far in the future
                        Anyhow we'd have a majority of the council and carry the mayor along with it."
                    "If" commented Mr. Kerrigan, dryly.
                    "If," replied Mr. Gilgan, sententiously. "You're
                        very right. There's a big 'if in there, I'll admit. But if these two
                        wardsyours and Tiernan'scould by any chance be carried for the Republicans
                        they'd be equal to any four or five of the others."
                    "Very true," replied Mr. Kerrigan, "if they could be
                        carried for the Republicans. But they can't be. What do you want me to do, anyhow? Lose
                        me seat in council and be run out of the Democratic party? What's your game? You
                        don't take me for a plane damn fool, do you?"
                    
                    "Sorry the man that ever took 'Emerald Pat' for
                        that," answered Gilgan, with honeyed compliment. "I never would. But no one is
                        askin' ye to lose your seat in council and be run out of the Democratic party.
                        What's to hinder you from electin' yourself and droppin' the rest of
                        the ticket?" He had almost said "knifing."
                    Mr. Kerrigan smiled. In spite of all his previous dissatisfaction with the Chicago
                        situation he had not thought of Mr. Gilgan's talk as leading to this. It was an
                        interesting idea. He had "knifed" people beforehere and there a particular
                        candidate whom it was desirable to undo. If the Democratic party was in any danger of losing
                        this fall, and if Gilgan was honest in his desire to divide and control, it might not be such a
                        bad thing. Neither Cowperwood, McKenty, nor Dowling had ever favored him in any particular way.
                        If they lost through him, and he could still keep himself in power, they would have to make
                        terms with him. There was no chance of their running him out. Why shouldn't he knife
                        the ticket? "It was worth thinking over, to say the least.
                    "That's all very fine," he observed, dryly, after his
                        meditations had run their course; "but how do I know that you wouldn't turn
                        around and 'welch' on the agreement afterward?" (Mr. Gilgan stirred
                        irritably at the suggestion.) "Dave Morrissey came to me four years ago to help him
                        out, and a lot of satisfaction I got afterward." Kerrigan was referring to a man whom
                        he had helped make county clerk, and who had turned on him when he asked for return favors and
                        his support for the office of commissioner of highways. Morrissey had become a prominent
                        politician.
                    "That's very easy to say," replied Gilgan, irritably,
                        "but it's not true of me. Ask any man in my district. Ask the men who know me.
                        I'll put my part of the bargain in black and white if you'll put yours. If I
                        don't make good, show me up afterward. I'll take you to the people that are
                        backing me. I'll show you the money. I've got the goods this time. What do you
                        stand to lose, anyhow? They can't run you out for cutting the ticket. They
                        can't prove it. We'll bring police in here to make it look like a fair vote.
                        I'll put up as much money as they will to carry this district, and more."
                    
                    Mr. Kerrigan suddenly saw a grand coup here. He could "draw down"
                        from the Democrats, as he would have expressed it, twenty to twenty-five thousand dollars to do
                        the dirty work here. Gilgan would furnish him as much and morehthe situation being so critical.
                        Perhaps fifteen or eighteen thousand would be necessary to poll the number of votes required
                        either way. At the last hour, before stuffing the boxes, he would learn how the city was going.
                        If it looked favorable for the Republicans it would be easy to complete the victory and complain
                        that his lieutenants had been suborned. If it looked certain for the Democrats he could throw
                        Gilgan and pocket his funds. In either case he would be "in" twenty-five to
                        thirty thousand dollars, and he would still be councilman.
                    "All very fine," replied Mr. Kerrigan, pretending a dullness which
                        he did not feel; "but it's damned ticklish business at best. I don t know that
                        I want anything to do with it even if we could win. It's true the City Hall crowd have
                        never played into my hands very much; but this is a Democratic district, and I'm a
                        Democrat. If it ever got out that I had thrown the party it would be pretty near all day with
                        me."
                    "I'm a man of my word," declared Mr. Gilgan, emphatically,
                        getting up. "I never threw a man or a bet in my life. Look at me record in the
                        eighteenth. Did you ever hear any one say that I had?"
                    "No, I never did," returned Kerrigan, mildly. "But
                        it's a pretty large thing you're proposing, Mr. Gilgan. I wouldn't
                        want to say what I thought about it offhand. This ward is supposed to be Democratic. It
                        couldn't be swung over into the Republican column without a good bit of fuss being made
                        about it. You'd better see Mr. Tiernan first and hear what he has to say. Afterward I
                        might be willing to talk about it further. Not now, thoughnot now.
                    Mr. Gilgan went away quite jauntily and cheerfully. He was not at all downcast.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    AN ELECTION DRAWS NEAR
                    SUBSEQUENTLY Mr. Kerrigan called on Mr. Tiernan casually. Mr. Tiernan returned the
                        call. A little later Messrs. Tiernan, Kerrigan, and Gilgan, in a parlor-room in a small hotel in
                        Milwaukee (in order not to be seen together), conferred. Finally Messrs. Tiernan, Edstrom,
                        Kerrigan, and Gilgan met and mapped out a programme of division far too intricate to be
                        indicated here. Needless to say, it involved the division of chief clerks, pro rata, of police
                        graft, of gambling and bawdy-house perquisites, of returns from gas, street-railway, and other
                        organizations. It was sealed with many solemn promises. If it could be made effective this
                        quadrumvirate was to endure for years. Judges, small magistrates, officers large and small, the
                        shrievalty, the water office, the tax office, all were to come within its purview. It was a
                        fine, handsome political dream, and as such worthy of every courtesy and consideration; but it
                        was only a political dream in its ultimate aspects, and as such impressed the participants
                        themselves at times.
                    The campaign was now in full blast. The summer and fall (September and October) went
                        by to the tune of Democratic and Republican marching club bands, to the sound of lusty political
                        voices orating in parks, at street-corners, in wooden "wigwams," halls, tents,
                        and parlorswherever a meager handful of listeners could be drummed up and made by any device to
                        keep still. The newspapers honked and bellowed, as is the way with those profit-appointed
                        advocates and guardians of "right" and "justice." Cowperwood
                        and McKenty were denounced from nearly every street-corner in Chicago. Wagons and signboards on
                        wheels were hauled about labeled "Break the 
                        partnership between the street-railway corporations and the city council." "Do
                        you want more streets stolen?"
                    "Do you want Cowperwood to own Chicago?" Cowperwood himself, coming
                        down-town of a morning or driving home of an evening, saw these things. He saw the huge signs,
                        listened to speeches denouncing himself, and smiled. By now he was quite aware as to whence this
                        powerful uprising had sprung. Hand was back of it, he knewfor so McKenty and Addison had quickly
                        discoveredand with Hand was Schryhart, Arneel, Merrill, the Douglas Trust Company, the various
                        editors, young Truman Leslie MacDonald, the old gas crowd, the Chicago General Companyall. He
                        even suspected that certain aldermen might possibly be suborned to desert him, though all
                        professed loyalty. McKenty, Addison, Videra, and himself were planning the details of their
                        defenses as carefully and effectively as possible. Cowperwood was fully alive to the fact that
                        if he lost this electionthe first to be vigorously contestedit might involve a serious chain of
                        events; but he did not propose to be unduly disturbed, since he could always fight in the courts
                        by money, and by preferment in the council, and with the mayor and the city attorney.
                        "There is more than one way to kill a cat," was one of his pet expression, and
                        it expressed his logic and courage exactly. Yet he did not wish to lose.
                    One of the amusing features of the campaign was that the McKenty orators had been
                        instructed to shout as loudly for reforms as the Republicans, only instead of assailing
                        Cowperwood and McKenty they were to point out that Schryhart's Chicago City Railway was
                        far more rapacious, and that this was a scheme to give it a blanket franchise of all streets not
                        yet covered by either the Cowperwood or the Schryhart-Hand-Arneel lines. It was a pretty
                        argument. The Democrats could point with pride to a uniformly liberal interpretation of some
                        trying Sunday laws, whereby under Republican and reform administrations it had been occasionally
                        difficult for the honest working-man to get his glass or pail of beer on Sunday. On the other
                        hand, it was possible for the Republican orators to show how "the low dives and
                        gin-mills" were everywhere being operated in favor of McKenty, and that under the
                        highly  respectable administration of the Republican
                        candidate for mayor this partnership between the city government and vice and crime would be
                        nullified.
                    "If I am elected," declared the Honorable Chaffee Thayer Sluss, the
                        Republican candidate, "neither Frank Cowperwood nor John McKenty will dare to show his
                        face in the City Hall unless he comes with dean hands and an honest purpose."
                    "Hoorar!" yelled the crowd.
                    I Know that ass," commented Addison, when he read this in the Transcript. "He used to be a clerk in the Douglas Trust Company.
                        He's made a little money recently in the paper business. He's a mere tool for
                        the Arneel-Schryhart interests. He hasn't the courage of a two-inch
                        fish-worm."
                    When McKenty read it he simply observed: "There are other ways of going to
                        City Hall than by going yourself." He was depending upon a councilmanic majority at
                        least.
                    However, in the midst of this uproar the goings to and fro of Gilgan, Edstrom,
                        Kerrigan, and Tiernan were not fully grasped. A more urbanely shifty pair than these latter were
                        never seen. While fraternizing secretly with both Gilgan and Edstrom, laying out their political
                        programme most neatly, they were at the same time conferring with Dowling, Duvanicki, even
                        Mckenty himself. Seeing that the outcome was, for some reasonhe could scarcely see whylooking
                        very uncertain, McKenty one day asked the two of them to come to see him. On getting the letter
                        Mr. Tiernan strolled over to Mr. Kerrigan's place to see whether he also had received a
                        message.
                    "Sure, sure! I did!" replied Mr. Kerrigan, gaily. "Here it
                        is now in me outside coat pocket. 'Dear Mr. Kerrigan," he read,
                        "'won't you do me the favor to come over to-morrow evening at seven
                        and dine with me? Mr. Ungerich, Mr. Duvanicki, and several others will very likely drop in
                        afterward. I have asked Mr. Tiernan to come at the same time. Sincerely, John J.
                        McKenty.' That's the way he does it," added Mr. Kerrigan;
                        "just like that."
                    He kissed the letter mockingly and put it back into his pocket.
                    
                    Sure I got one, jist the same way. The very same langwidge, nearly,"
                        commented Mr. Tiernan, sweetly. "He's beginning to wake up, eh? What! The
                        little old first and second are beginning to look purty big just now, eh? What!"
                    "Tush!" observed Mr. Kerrigan to Mr. Tiernan, with a marked
                        sardonic emphasis, "that combination won't last forever. They've been
                        getting too big for their pants, I'm thinking. Well, it's a long road, eh?
                        It's pretty near time, what?"
                    "You're right," responded Mr. Tiernan, feelingly.
                        "It is a long road. These are the two big wards of the city, and everybody knows it. If
                        we turn on them at the last moment where will they be, eh?"
                    He put a fat finger alongside of his heavy reddish nose and looked at Mr. Kerrigan
                        out of squinted eyes.
                    "You're damned right," replied the little politician,
                        cheerfully.
                    They went to the dinner separately, so as not to appear to have conferred before, and
                        greeted each other on arriving as though they had not seen each other for days.
                    "How's business, Mike?"
                    "Oh, fair, Pat. How's things with you?"
                    "So so."
                    "Things lookin' all right in your ward for November?"
                    Mr. Tiernan wrinkled a fat forehead. "Can't tell yet." All
                        this was for the benefit of Mr. McKenty, who did not suspect rank party disloyalty.
                    Nothing much came of this conference, except that they sat about discussing in a
                        general way wards, pluralities, what Zeigler was likely to do with the twelfth, whether Pinski
                        could make it in the sixth, Schlumbohm in the twentieth, and so on. New Republican contestants
                        in old, safe Democratic wards were making things look dubious.
                    "And how about the first, Kerrigan?" inquired Ungerich, a thin,
                        reflective German-American of shrewd presence. Ungerich was one who had hitherto wormed himself
                        higher in McKenty's favor than either Kerrigan or Tiernan.
                    "Oh, the first's all right," replied Kerrigan, archly.
                        "Of course you never can tell. This fellow Scully may do something,  but I don't think it will be much. If we
                        have the same police protection"
                    Ungerich was gratified. He was having a struggle in his own ward, where a rival by
                        the name of Glover appeared to be pouring out money like water. He would require considerably
                        more money than usual to win. It was the same with Duvanicki.
                    McKenty finally parted with his lieutenantsmore feelingly with Kerrigan and Tiernan
                        than he had ever done before. He did not wholly trust these two, and he could not exactly admire
                        them and their methods, which were the roughest of all, but they were useful.
                    "I'm glad to learn," he said, at parting, "that
                        things are looking all right with you, Pat, and you, Mike," nodding to each in turn.
                        "We're going to need the most we can get out of everybody. I depend on you two
                        to make a fine showingthe best of any. The rest of us will not forget it when the plums are
                        being handed around afterward."
                    "Oh, you can depend on me to do the best I can always," commented
                        Mr. Kerrigan, sympathetically. "It's a tough year, but we haven't
                        failed yet."
                    "And me, Chief! That goes for me," observed Mr. Tiernan, raucously.
                        "I guess I can do as well as I have."
                    "Good for you, Mike!" soothed McKenty, laying a gentle hand on his
                        shoulder. And you, too, Kerrigan. Yours are the key wards, and we understand that. I've
                        always been sorry that the leaders couldn't agree on you two for something better than
                        councilmen; but next time there won't be any doubt of it, if I have any influence then.
                        He went in and closed the door. Outside a cool October wind was whipping dead leaves and weed
                        stalks along the pavements. Neither Tiernan nor Kerrigan spoke, though they had come away
                        together, until they were two hundred feet down the avenue toward van Buren.
                    Some talk, that, eh? commented Mr. Tiernan, eying Mr. Kerrigan in the flare of a
                        passing gas-lamp.
                    "Sure. That's the stuff they always hand out when they're
                        up against it. Pretty kind words, eh?"
                    "And after ten years of about the roughest work that's done, eh?
                        It's about time, what? Say, it's a wonder he  didn't think of that last June when the convention was in
                        Session."
                    "Tush! Mikey," smiled Mr. Kerrigan, grimly.
                        "You're a bad little boy. You want your pie too soon. Wait another two or four
                        or six years, like Paddy Kerrigan and the others."
                    "Yes, I willnot," growled Mr. Tiernan. "Wait 'll
                        the sixth."
                    "No more, will I," replied Mr. Kerrigan. "Say, we know a
                        trick that beats that next-year business to a pulp. What?"
                    "You're dead right," commented Mr. Tiernan.
                    And so they went peacefully home.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII
                    AILEEN'S REVENGE
                    THE interesting Polk Lynde, rising one morning, decided that his affair with Aileen,
                        sympathetic as it was, must culminate in the one fashion satisfactory to him here and nowthis
                        day, if possible, or the next. Since the luncheon some considerable time had elapsed, and
                        although he had tried to seek her out in various ways, Aileen, owing to a certain feeling that
                        she must think and not jeopardize her future, had evaded him. She realized well enough that she
                        was at the turning of the balance, now that opportunity was knocking so loudly at her door, and
                        she was exceedingly coy and distrait. In spite of herself the old grip of Cowperwood was over
                        herthe conviction that he was such a tremendous figure in the worldand this made her strangely
                        disturbed, nebulous, and meditative. Another type of woman, having troubled as much as she had
                        done, would have made short work of it, particularly since the details in regard to Mrs. Hand
                        had been added. Not so Aileen. She could not quite forget the early vows and promises exchanged
                        between them, nor conquer the often-fractured illusions that he might still behave himself.
                    On the other hand, Polk Lynde, marauder, social adventurer, a buccaneer of the
                        affections, was not so easily to be put aside, delayed, and gainsaid. Not unlike Cowperwood, he
                        was a man of real force, and his methods, in so far as women were concerned, were even more
                        daring. Long trifling with the sex had taught him that they were coy, uncertain, foolishly
                        inconsistent in their moods, even with regard to what they most desired. If one contemplated
                        victory, it had frequently to be taken with an iron hand.
                    
                    From this attitude on his part had sprung his rather dark fame. Aileen felt it on the
                        day that she took lunch with him. His solemn, dark eyes were treacherously sweet. She felt as if
                        she might be paving the way for some situation in which she would find herself helpless before
                        his sudden moodand yet she had come.
                    But Lynde, meditating Aileen's delay, had this day decided that he should
                        get a definite decision, and that it should be favorable. He called her up at ten in the morning
                        and chafed her concerning her indecision and changeable moods. He wanted to know whether she
                        would not come and see the paintings at his friend s studiowhether she could not make up tier
                        mind to come to a Darn-dance which some bachelor friends of his had arranged. When she pleaded
                        being out of sorts he urged her to pull herself together. "You're making
                        things very difficult for your admirer," he suggested, sweetly.
                    Aileen fancied she had postponed the struggle diplomatically for some little time
                        without ending it, when at two o'clock in the afternoon her door-bell was rung and the
                        name of Lynde brought up. "He said he was sure you were in," commented the
                        footman, on whom had been pressed a dollar, "and would you see him for just a moment?
                        He would nor keen you more than a moment."
                    Aileen, taken off her guard by this effrontery, uncertain as to whether there might
                        not be something of some slight import concerning which he wished to speak to her, quarreling
                        with herself because of her indecision, really fascinated by Lynde as a rival for her
                        affections, and remembering his jesting, coaxing voice of the morning, decided to go down. She
                        was lonely, and, clad m a lavender house-gown with an ermine collar and sleeve cuffs, was
                        reading a book.
                    "Show him into the music-room," she said to the lackey, when she
                        entered she was breathing with some slight difficulty, for so Lynde affected her. She knew she
                        had displayed fear by not going to him before, and previous cowardice plainly manifested does
                        not add to one's power of resistance.
                    "Oh!" she exclaimed, with an assumption of bravado which she did
                        not feel. "I didn't expect to see you so  soon after your telephone message. You have never been in our house before,
                        have you? Won't you put up your coat and hat and come into the gallery? It's
                        brighter there, and you might be interested in some of the pictures."
                    Lynde, who was seeking for any pretext whereby he might prolong his stay and overcome
                        her nervous mood, accepted, pretending, however, that he was merely passing and with a moment to
                        spare.
                    "Thought I'd get just one glimpse of you again. Couldn't
                        resist the temptation to look in. Stunning room, isn't it? Spaciousand there you are!
                        Who did that? Oh, I seeVan Beers. And a jolly fine piece of work it is, too, charming."
                    He surveyed her and then turned back to the picture where, ten years younger,
                        buoyant, hopeful, carrying her blue-and-white striped parasol, she sat on a stone bench against
                        the Dutch background of sky and clouds. Charmed by the picture she presented in both cases, he
                        was genially complimentary. To-day she was stouter, ruddierthe fiber of her had hardened, as it
                        does with so many as the years come on; but she was still in full blooma little late in the
                        summer, but in full bloom.
                    "Oh yes; and this RembrandtI'm surprised! I did not know your
                        husband's collection was so representative. Israels, I see, and Ger$oCme, and
                        Meissonier! Gad! It is a representative collection, isn't it?"
                    "Some of the things are excellent," she commented, with an air,
                        aping Cowperwood and others, "but a number will be weeded out eventuallythat Paul
                        Potter and this Goyaas better examples come into the market."
                    She had heard Cowperwood say as much, over and over.
                    Finding that conversation was possible between them in this easy, impersonal way,
                        Aileen became quite natural and interested, pleased and entertained by his discreet and charming
                        presence. Evidently he did not intend to pay much more than a passing social call. On the other
                        hand, Lynde was studying her, wondering what effect his light, distant air was having. As he
                        finished a very casual survey of the gallery he remarked:
                    "I have always wondered about this house. I knew  Lord did it, of course, and I always heard it was well done. That is
                        the dining-room, I suppose?"
                    Aileen, who had always been inordinately vain of the house in spite of the fact that
                        it had proved of small use socially, was delighted to show him the remainder of the rooms.
                        Lynde, who was used, of course, to houses of all degrees of material splendorthat of his own
                        family being one of the bestpretended an interest he did not feel. He commented as he went on
                        the taste of the decorations and wood-carving, the charm of the arrangement that permitted neat
                        brief vistas, and the like.
                    "Just wait a moment," said Aileen, as they neared the door of her
                        own boudoir. "I've forgotten whether mine is in order. I want you to see
                        that."
                    She opened it and stepped in.
                    "Yes, you may come," she called.
                    He followed. "Oh yes, indeed. Very charming. Very gracefulthose little lacy
                        dancing figuresaren't they? A delightful color scheme. It harmonizes with you exactly.
                        It is quite like you."
                    He paused, looking at the spacious rug, which was of warm blues and creams, and at
                        the gilt ormolu bed. "Well done," he said, and then, suddenly changing his
                        mood and dropping his talk of decoration (Aileen was to his right, and he was between her and
                        the door), he added: "Tell me now why won't you come to the barn-dance
                        to-night? It would be charming. You will enjoy it.
                    Aileen saw the sudden change in his mood. She recognized that by showing him the
                        rooms she had led herself into an easily made disturbing position. His dark engaging eyes told
                        their own story.
                    "Oh, I don't feel in the mood to. I haven't for a number
                        of things for some time. I"
                    She began to move unconcernedly about him toward the door, but he detained her with
                        his hand. "Don't go just yet," he said. "Let me talk to you.
                        You always evade me in such a nervous way. Don't you like me at all?"
                    "Oh yes, I like you; but can't we talk just as well down in the
                        music-room as here? Can't I tell you why I evade you down there just as well as I can
                        here?" She smiled a winning and now fearless smile.
                    
                    Lynde showed his even white teeth in two gleaming rows. His eyes filled with a gay
                        maliciousness. "Surely, surely," he replied; "but your own room here.
                        I hate to leave it."
                    "Just the same," replied Aileen, still gay, but now slightly
                        disturbed also, "I think we might as well. You will find me just as entertaining
                        down-stairs."
                    She moved, but his strength, quite as Cowperwood's, was much too great for
                        her. He was a strong man.
                    "Really, you know," she said, "you mustn't act
                        this way here. Some one might come in. what cause nave I given you to make you think you could
                        do like this with me?"
                    "What cause?" he asked, bending over her and smoothing her plump
                        arms with his brown hands. "Oh, no definite cause, perhaps. You are a cause in
                        yourself. I told you how sweet I thought you were, the night we were at the Alcott.
                        Didn't you understand then? I thought you did.
                    "Oh, I understood that you liked me, and all that, perhaps. Any one might do
                        that. But as for anything liketaking such liberties with meI never dreamed of it. But listen. I
                        think I hear some one coming." Aileen, making a sudden vigorous effort to free herself
                        and failing, added: "Please let me go, Mr. Lynde. It isn't very gallant of
                        you, I must say, restraining a woman against her will. If I had given you any real cause I shall
                        be angry in a moment."
                    Again the even smiling teeth and dark, wrinkling, malicious eyes.
                    "Really! How you go on! You would think I was a perfect stranger.
                        Don't you remember what you said to me at lunch? You didn't keep your promise.
                        You practically gave me to understand that you would come. Why didn't you? Are you
                        afraid of me, or don't you like me, or both? I think you're delicious,
                        splendid, and I want to know."
                    He shifted his position, putting one arm about her waist, pulling her close to him,
                        looking into her eyes. With the other he held her free arm. Suddenly he covered her mouth with
                        his and then kissed her cheeks. "You care for me, don't you? What did you mean
                        by saying you might come, if you didn't?"
                    
                    He held her quite firm, while Aileen struggled. It was 3. new sensation thisthat of
                        the other man, and this was Polk Lynde, the first individual outside of Cowperwood to whom she
                        had ever felt drawn. But now, here, in her own roomand it was within the range of possibilities
                        that Cowperwood might return or the servants enter.
                    "Oh, but think what you are doing," she protested, not really
                        disturbed as yet as to the outcome of the contest with him, and feeling as though he were merely
                        trying to make her be sweet to him without intending anything more at present" here in
                        my own room! Really, you're not the man I thought you were at all, if you
                        don't instantly let me go. Mr. Lynde! Mr. Lynde!" (He had bent over and was
                        kissing her). "Oh, you shouldn't do this! Really! II said I might come, but
                        that was far from doing it. And to have you come here and take advantage of me in this way! I
                        think you're horrid. If I ever had any interest in you, it is quite dead now, I can
                        assure you. Unless you let me go at once, I give you my would I will never see you any more. I
                        won't! Really, I won't! I mean it! Oh, please let me go! I'll scream,
                        I tell you! I'll never see you again after this day! Oh" It was an intense but
                        useless struggle.
                    Coming home one evening about a week later, Cowperwood found Aileen humming
                        cheerfully, and yet also in a seemingly deep and reflective mood. She was just completing an
                        evening toilet, and looked young and colorful quite her avid, seeking self of earlier days.
                    "Well," he asked, cheerfully, "how have things gone
                        to-day?"
                    Aileen, feeling somehow, as one will on occasions, that if she had done wrong she was
                        justified and that sometime because of this she might even win Cowperwood back, felt somewhat
                        kindlier toward him. "Oh, very well," she replied. "I stopped in at
                        the Hoecksemas' this afternoon for a little while. They're going to Mexico in
                        November. She has the darlingest new basket-carriageif she only looked like anything when she
                        rode in it. Etta is getting ready to enter Bryn Mawr. She is all fussed up about leaving her dog
                        and cat. Then I went down to one of Lane Cross's  receptions, and over to Merrill's"she was referring to the
                        great store" and home. I saw Taylor Lord and Polk Lynde together in Wabash
                        Avenue."
                    Polk Lynde?" commented Cowperwood. "Is he interesting?"
                    "Yes, he is," replied Aileen. "I never met a man with such
                        perfect manners. He's so fascinating. He's just like a boy, and yet, Heaven
                        knows, he seems to have had enough worldly experience.
                    So I ve heard, commented Cowperwood. Wasn't he the one that was mixed up in
                        that Carmen Torriba case here a few years ago?" Cowperwood was referring to the matter
                        of a Spanish dancer traveling in America with whom Lynde had been apparently desperately in
                        love.
                    "Oh yes," replied Aileen, maliciously; "but that
                        oughtn't to make any difference to you. He's charming, anyhow. I like
                        him."
                    "I didn't say it did, did I? You don't object to my
                        mentioning a mere incident?"
                    "Oh, I know about the incident," replied Aileen, jestingly.
                        "I know you."
                    "What do you mean by that?" he asked, studying her face.
                    "Oh, I know you," she replied, sweetly and yet defensively.
                        "You think I'll stay here and be content while you run about with other
                        womenplay the sweet and loving wife? Well, I won't. I know why you say this about
                        Lynde. It's to keep me from being interested in him, possibly. Well, I will be if I
                        want to. I told you I would be, and I will. You can do what you please about that. You
                        don't want me, so why should you be disturbed as to whether other men are interested in
                        me or not?"
                    The truth was that Cowperwood was not clearly thinking of any probable relation
                        between Lynde and Aileen any more than he was in connection with her and any other man, and yet
                        in a remote way he was sensing some one. It was this that Aileen felt in him, and that brought
                        forth her seemingly uncalled-for comment. Cowperwood, under the circumstances, attempted to be
                        as suave as possible, having caught the implication clearly.
                    "Aileen," he cooed, "how you talk! Why do you say  that? You know I care for you. I can't
                        prevent anything you want to do, and I'm sure you know I don't want to.
                        It's you that I want to see satisfied. You know that I care."
                    "Yes, I know how you care," replied Aileen, her mood changing for
                        the moment. "Don't start that old stuff, please. I'm sick of it. I
                        know how you're running around. I know about Mrs. Hand. Even the newspapers make that
                        plain. You've been home just one evening in the last eight days, long enough for me to
                        get more than a glimpse of you. Don't talk to me. Don't try to bill and coo.
                        I've always known. Don't think I don't know who your latest flame is.
                        But don't begin to whine, and don't quarrel with me if I go about and get
                        interested in other men, as I certainly will. It will be all your fault if I do, and you know
                        it. Don't begin and complain. It won't do you any good. I' m not
                        going to sit here and be made a fool of. I've told you that over and over. You
                        don't believe it, but I'm not. I told you that I'd find some one of
                        these days, and I will. As a matter of fact, I have already."
                    At this remark Cowperwood surveyed her coolly, critically, and yet not
                        unsympathetically; but she swung out of the room with a defiant air before anything could be
                        said and went down to the music-room, from whence a few moments later there rolled up to him
                        from the hall below the strains of the second Hungarian Rhapsodie, feelingly and for once
                        movingly played. Into it Aileen put some of her own wild woe and misery. Cowperwood hated the
                        thought for the moment that some one as smug as Lyndeso good-looking, so suave a society
                        rakeshould interest Aileen; but if it must be, it must be. He could have no honest reason for
                        complaint. At the same time a breath of real sorrow for the days that had gone swept over him.
                        He remembered her in Philadelphia in her red cape as a school-girlin his father's
                        houseout horseback-riding, driving. What a splendid, loving girl she had beensuch a sweet fool
                        of love. Could she really have decided not to worry about him any more? Could it be possible
                        that she might find some one else who would be interested in her, and in whom she would take a
                        keen interest? It was an odd thought for him.
                    
                    He watched her as she came into the dining-room later, arrayed in green silk of the
                        shade of copper patina, her hair done in a nigh coiland in spite of himself he could not help
                        admiring her. She looked very young in her soul, and, yet moodyloving (for some one), eager, and
                        defiant. He reflected for a moment what terrible things passion and love arehow they make fools
                        of us all. "All of us are in the grip of a great creative impulse," he said to
                        himself. He talked of other things for a whilethe approaching election, poster-wagon he had seen
                        bearing the question, "Shall Cowperwood own the city?" " Pretty cheap
                        politics, I call that, he commented. And then he told of stopping in a so-called Republican
                        wigwam at State and Sixteenth streetsa great, cheaply erected, unpainted wooden shack with
                        seats, and of hearing himself bitterly denounced by the reigning orator. "I was tempted
                        once to ask that donkey a few questions," he added, "but I decided I
                        wouldn't."
                    Aileen had to smile. In spite of all his faults he was such wonderful manto set a
                        city thus by the ears. "Yet, what care I how fair he be, if he be not fair to
                        me."
                    "Did you meet any one else besides Lynde you liked?" he finally
                        asked, archly, seeking to gather further data without stirring up too much feeling.
                    Aileen, who had been studying him, feeling sure the subject would come up again,
                        replied: "No, I haven't; but I don't need to. One is
                        enough."
                    "What do you mean 'by that?" he asked, gently.
                    "Oh, just what I say. One will do.
                    "You mean you are in love with Lynde?"
                    "I meanoh!" She stopped and surveyed him defiantly. "What
                        difference does it make to you what I mean? Yes, I am. But what do you care? Why do you sit
                        there and Question me? It doesn't make any difference to you what I do. You
                        don't want me. Why should you sit there and try to find out, or watch? It
                        hasn't been any consideration for you that has restrained me so far. Suppose I am in
                        love? What difference would it make to you?"
                    Oh, I care. You know I care. Why do you say that?"
                    "Yes, you care," she flared. "I know now you care. Well,
                        I'll just tell you one thing" rage at his indifference  was driving her on;"I am in love with Lynde, and
                        what's more, I'm his mistress. And I'll continue to be. But what do
                        you care? Pshaw!"
                    Her eyes blazed hotly, her color rose high and strong. She breathed heavily.
                    At this announcement, made in the heat of spite and rage generated by long
                        indifference, Cowperwood sat up for a moment, and his eyes hardened with quite that implacable
                        glare with which he sometimes confronted an enemy. He felt at once there were many things he
                        could do to make her life miserable, and to take revenge on Lynde, but he decided after a moment
                        he would not. It was not weakness, but a sense of superior power that was moving him. why should
                        he be jealous? Had he not been unkind enough? In a moment his mood changed to one of sorrow for
                        Aileen, for himself, indeedits tangles of desire and necessity. He could not blame Aileen. Lynde
                        was surely attractive. He had no desire to part with her or to quarrel with himmerely to
                        temporarily cease all intimate relations with her and allow her mood to clear itself up. Perhaps
                        she would want to leave him of her own accord. Perhaps, if he ever found the tight woman, this
                        might prove good grounds for his leaving her. The right womanwhere was she? He had never found
                        her yet.
                    "Aileen," he said, quite softly, "I wish you
                        wouldn't feel so bitterly about this. Why should you? When did you do this? Will you
                        tell me that?"
                    "No, I'll not tell you that," she replied, bitterly.
                        "It's none of your affair, and I'll not tell you. Why should you ask?
                        You don't care."
                    "But I do care, I tell you," he returned, irritably, almost
                        roughly. "When did you? You can tell me that, at least." His eyes had a hard,
                        cold look for the moment, dying away, though, into kindly inquiry.
                    "Oh, not long ago. About a week," Aileen answered, as though she
                        were compelled.
                    "How long have you known him?" he asked, curiously.
                    "Oh, four or five months, now. I met him last winter."
                    "And did you do this deliberately because you were in love with him, or
                        because you wanted to hurt me?"
                    
                    He could not believe from past scenes between them that she had ceased to love him.
                    Aileen stirred irritably. "I like that," she flared. "I
                        did it because I wanted to, and not because of any love for youI can tell you that. I like your
                        nerve sitting here presuming to question me after the way you have neglected me." She
                        pushed back her plate, and made as if to get up.
                    "Wait a minute, Aileen," he said, simply, putting down his knife
                        and fork and looking across the handsome table where Sevres, silver, fruit, and dainty dishes
                        were spread, and where under silk-shaded lights they sat opposite each other. "I wish
                        you wouldn't talk that way to me. You know that I am not a petty, fourth-rate fool. You
                        know that, whatever you do, I am not going to quarrel with you. I know what the trouble is with
                        you. I know why you are acting this way, and how you will feel afterward if you go on. It
                        isn't anything I will do" He paused, caught by a wave of felling.
                    Oh, isn't it?" she blazed, trying to overcome the emotion that was
                        rising in herself. The calmness of him stirred up memories of the past. "Well, you keep
                        your sympathy for yourself. I don't need it. I will get along. I wish you
                        wouldn't talk to me."
                    She shoved her plate away with such force that she upset a glass in which was
                        champagne, the wine making a frayed, yellowish splotch on the white linen, and, rising, hurried
                        toward the door. She was choking with anger, pain, shame, regret.
                    "Aileen! Aileen!" he called, hurrying after her, regard-less of the
                        butler, who, hearing the sound of stirring chairs, had entered. These family woes were an old
                        story to him. "It's love you wantnot revenge. I knowI can tell. You want to be
                        loved by some one completely. I'm sorry. You mustn't be too hard on me. I
                        sha'n't be on you." He seized her by the arm and detained her as they
                        entered the next room. By this time Aileen was too ablaze with emotion to talk sensibly or
                        understand what he was doing.
                    "Let me go!" she exclaimed, angrily, hot tears in her eyes. Let me
                        go! I tell you I don't love you any more. I tell you I hate you!" She flung
                        herself loose and stood  erect before him.
                        "I don't want you to talk to me! I don t want you to speak to me!
                        You're the cause of all my troubles. You're the cause of whatever I do, when I
                        do it, and don't you dare to deny it! You'll see! You'll see!
                        I'll show you what I'll do!"
                    She twisted and turned, but he held her firmly until, in his strong grasp, as usual,
                        she collapsed and began to cry.
                    "Oh, I cry," she declared, even in her tears, "but it will
                        be just the same. It's too late! too late!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII
                    AN HOUR OF DEFEAT
                    THE stoic Cowperwood, listening to the blare and ex-i with the fall campaign, was
                        much more pained to learn of Aileen's desertion than to know that he had arrayed a
                        whole social element against himself in Chicago. He could not forget the wonder of those first
                        days when Aileen was young, and love and hope had been the substance of her being. The thought
                        ran through all his efforts and cogitations like a distantly orchestrated undertone. In the
                        main, in spite of his activity, he was an introspective man, and art, drama, and the pathos of
                        broken ideals were not beyond him. He harbored in no way any grudge against Aileenonly a kind of
                        sorrow over the inevitable consequences of his own ungovernable disposition, the will to freedom
                        within himself. Change! Change! the inevitable passing of things! Who parts with a perfect
                        thing, even if no more than an unreasoning love, without a touch of self-pity?
                    But there followed swiftly the sixth of November, with its election, noisy and
                        irrational, and latter resulted in a resounding defeat. Out of the thirty-two Democratic
                        aldermen nominated only ten were elected, giving the opposition a full two-thirds majority in
                        council, Messrs. Tiernan and Kerrigan, of course, being safely in their places. With them came a
                        Republican mayor and all his Republican associates on the ticket, who were now supposed to carry
                        out the theories of the respectable and the virtuous. Cowperwood knew what it meant and prepared
                        at once to make overtures to the enemy. From McKenty and others he learned by degrees the full
                        story of Tiernan's and Kerrigan s treachery, but he did not store it up bitterly
                        against them. Such was life. They must be looked 
                        after more carefully in future, or caught in-some trap and utterly undone. According to their
                        own accounts, they had barely managed to scrape through.
                    "Look at meself! I only won by three hundred votes," archly
                        declared Mr. Kerrigan, on divers and sundry occasions. "By God, I almost lost me own
                        ward!"
                    Mr. Tiernan was equally emphatic. "The police was no good to me,"
                        he declared, firmly. "They let the other fellows beat up me men. I only polled six
                        thousand when I should have had nine.
                    But no one believed them.
                    While McKenty meditated as to how in two years he should be able to undo this
                        temporary victory, and Cowperwood was deciding that conciliation was the best policy for him,
                        Schryhart, Hand, and Arneel, joining hands with young MacDonald, were wondering how they could
                        make sure that this party victory would cripple Cowperwood and permanently prevent him from
                        returning to power. It was a long, intricate fight that followed, but it involved (before
                        Cowperwood could possibly reach the new aldermen) a proposed reintroduction and passage of the
                        much-opposed General Electric franchise, the granting of rights and privileges in outlying
                        districts to various minor companies, and last and worsta thing which had not previously dawned
                        on Cowperwood as in any way probablethe projection of an ordinance granting to certain South
                        Side corporation the privilege of erecting and operating an elevated road. This was as severe a
                        blow as any that had yet been dealt Cowperwood, for it introduced a new factor and complication
                        into the Chicago street-railway situation which had hitherto, for all its troubles, been
                        comparatively simple.
                    In order to make this plain it should be said that some eighteen or twenty years
                        before in New York there had been devised and erected a series of elevated roads calculated to
                        relieve the congestion of traffic on the lower portion of that long and narrow island, and they
                        had proved an immense success. Cowperwood had been interested in them, along with everything
                        else which pertained to public street traffic, from the very beginning. In his various trips  to New York he had made a careful physical
                        inspection of them. He knew all about their incorporation, backers, the expense connected with
                        them, their returns, and so forth. Personally, in so far as New York was concerned, he
                        considered them an ideal solution 01 traffic on that crowded island. Here in Chicago, where the
                        population was as yet comparatively smallverging now toward a million, and widely scattered over
                        a great areahe did not feel that they would be profitablecertainly not for some years to come.
                        What traffic they gained would be taken from the surface lines, and if he built them he would be
                        merely doubling his expenses to halve his profits. From time to time he had contemplated the
                        possibility of their being built by other menproviding they could secure a franchise, which
                        previous to the late election had not seemed probableand in this connection he had once said to
                        Addison; "Let them sink their money, and about the time the population is sufficient to
                        support the lines they will have been driven into the hands of receivers. That will simply chase
                        the game into my bag, and I can buy them for a mere song." With this conclusion Addison
                        had agreed. But since this conversation circumstances mad the construction of these elevated
                        roads far less problematic.
                    In the first place, public interest in the idea of elevated roads was increasing.
                        They were a novelty, a factor in the life of New York; and at this time rivalry with the great
                        cosmopolitan heart was very keen in the mind of the average Chicago citizen. Public sentiment in
                        this direction, however na$iUve or unworthy, was nevertheless sufficient to make any elevated
                        road in Chicago popular for the time being. In the second place, it so happened that because of
                        this swelling tide of municipal enthusiasm, this renaissance of the West, Chicago had finally
                        been chosen, at a date shortly preceding the present campaign, as the favored city for an
                        enormous international fairquite the largest ever given in America. Men such as Hand, Schryhart,
                        Merrill, and Arneel, to say nothing of the various newspaper publishers and editors, had been
                        enthusiastic supporters of the project, and in this Cowperwood had been one with them. No
                        sooner, however, had the award actually been granted than Cowperwood's enemies made  it their first concern to utilize the situation
                        against him.
                    To begin with, the site of the fair, by aid of the new anti-Cowperwood council, was
                        located on the South Side, at the terminus of the Schryhart line, thus making the whole city pay
                        tribute to that corporation. Simultaneously the thought suddenly dawned upon the Schryhart
                        faction that it would be an excellent stroke of business if the New York elevated-road idea were
                        now introduced into the citynot so much with the purpose of making money immediately, but in
                        order to bring the hated magnate to an understanding that he had a formidable rival which might
                        invade the territory that he now monopolized, curtailing his profits and thus making it
                        advisable for him to close out his holdings and depart. Bland and interesting were the
                        conferences held by Mr. Schryhart with Mr. Hand, and by Mr. Hand with Mr. Arneel on this
                        subject. Their plan as first outlined was to build an elevated road on the South Sidesouth of
                        the proposed fair-groundsand once that was popularhaving previously secured franchises which
                        would cover the entire field, West, South, and Northto construct the others at their leisure,
                        and so to bid Mr. Cowperwood a sweet and smiling adieu.
                    Cowperwood, awaiting the assembling of the new city council one month after election,
                        did not propose to wait in peace and quiet until the enemy should strike at him unprepared.
                        Calling those familiar agents, his corporation attorneys, around him, he was shortly informed of
                        the new elevated-road idea, and it gave him a real shock. Obviously Hand and Schryhart were now
                        in deadly earnest. At once he dictated a letter to Mr. Gilgan asking him to call at1 his office.
                        At the same time he hurriedly adjured his advisers to use due diligence in discovering what
                        influences could be brought to bear on the new mayor, the honorable Chaffee Thayer Sluss, to
                        cause him to veto the ordinances in case they came before himto effect in him, indeed, a total
                        change of heart.
                    The Hon. Chaffee Thayer Sluss, whose attitude in this instance was to prove crucial,
                        was a tall, shapely, somewhat grandiloquent person who took himself and his social  and commercial opportunities and doings in the most
                        serious and, as it were, elevated light. You know, perhaps, the type of man or woman who, raised
                        in an atmosphere of comparative comfort and some small social pretension, and being short of
                        those gray convolutions in the human brain-pan which permit an individual to see life in all its
                        fortuitousness and uncertainty, proceed because of an absence of necessity and the consequent
                        lack of human experience to take themselves and all that they do in the most reverential and
                        Providence-protected spirit. The Hon. Chaffee Thayer Sluss reasoned that, because of the
                        splendid ancestry on which he prided himself, he was an essentially honest man. His father had
                        amassed a small fortune in the wholesale harness business. The wife whom at the age of
                        twenty-eight he had marrieda pretty but inconsequential type of womanwas the daughter of a
                        pickle manufacturer, whose wares were in some demand and whose children had been considered good
                        "catches" in the neighborhood from which the Hon. Chaffee Sluss emanated.
                        There had been a highly conservative wedding feast, and a honeymoon trip to the Garden of the
                        Gods and the Grand Cation. Then the sleek Chaffee, much in the grace of both families because of
                        his smug determination to rise in the world, had returned to his business, which was that of a
                        paper-broker, and had begun with the greatest care to amass a competence on his own account.
                    The Honorable Chaffee, be it admitted, had no particular faults, unless those of
                        smugness and a certain over-careful-ness as to his own prospects and opportunities can be
                        counted as such. But he had one weakness, which, in view of his young wife's stern and
                        somewhat Puritanic ideas and the religious propensities of his father and father-in-law, was
                        exceedingly disturbing to him. He had an eye for the beauty of women in general, and
                        particularly for plump, blonde women with corn-colored hair. Now and then, in spite of the fact
                        that he had an ideal wife and two lovely children, he would cast a meditative and speculative
                        eye after those alluring forms that cross the path of all men and that seem to beckon slyly by
                        implication if not by actual, open suggestion.
                    However, it was not until several years after Mr. Sluss  had married, and when he might have been considered settled in the ways of
                        righteousness, that he actually essayed to any extent the r$oCle of a gay Lothario. An
                        experience or two with the less vigorous and vicious girls of the streets, a tentative love
                        affair with a girl in his office who was not new to the practices she encouraged, and he was
                        fairly launched. He lent himself at first to the great folly of pretending to love truly; but
                        this was taken by one and another intelligent young woman with a grain of salt. The
                        entertainment and preferment he could provide were accepted as sufficient reward. One girl,
                        however, actually seduced, had to be compensated by five thousand dollars and that after such
                        terrors and heartaches (his wife, her family, and his own looming up horribly in the background)
                        as should have cured him forever of a penchant for stenographers and employees generally.
                        Thereafter for a long time he confined himself strictly to such acquaintances as he could make
                        through agents, brokers, and manufacturers who did business with him, and who occasionally
                        invited him to one form of bacchanalian feast or another.
                    As time went on he became wiser, if, alas, a little more eager. By association with
                        merchants and some superior politicians whom he chanced to encounter, and because the ward in
                        which he lived happened to be a pivotal one, he began to speak publicly on occasion and to
                        gather dimly the import of that logic which sees life as a pagan wild, and religion and
                        convention as the forms man puts on or off to suit his fancy, mood, and whims during the onward
                        drift of the ages. Not for Chaffee Thayer Sluss to grasp the true meaning of it all. His brain
                        was not big enough. Men led dual lives, it was true; but say what you would, and in the face of
                        his own erring conduct, this was very bad. On Sunday, when he went to church with his wife, he
                        felt that religion was essential and purifying. In his own business he found himself frequently
                        confronted by various little flaws of logic relating to undue profits, misrepresentations, and
                        the like; but say what you would, nevertheless and notwithstanding, God was God morality was
                        superior, the church was important. It was wrong to yield to one's impulses, as he
                        found it so fascinating to do. One should be better than his neighbor, or pretend to be.
                    
                    What is to be done with such a rag-bag, moralistic ass as this? In spite of all his
                        philanderings, and the resultant qualms due to his fear of being found out, he prospered in
                        business and rose to some eminence in his own community. As he had grown more lax he had become
                        somewhat more genial and tolerant, more generally acceptable. He was a good Republican, a
                        follower in the wake of Norrie Simms and young Truman Leslie MacDonald. His father-in-law was
                        both rich and moderately influential. Having lent himself to some campaign speaking, and to
                        party work in general, he proved quite an adept. Because of all these thingshis ability, such as
                        it was, his pliability, and his thoroughly respectable savorhe had been slated as candidate for
                        mayor on the Republican ticket, which had subsequently been elected.
                    Cowperwood was well aware, from remarks made in the previous campaign, of the
                        derogatory attitude of Mayor Sluss. Already he had discussed it in a conversation with the Hon.
                        Joel Avery (ex-state senator), who was in his employ at the time. Avery had recently been in all
                        sorts of corporation work, and knew the ins and outs of the courtslawyers, judges, politiciansas
                        he knew his revised statutes. He was a very little mannot more than five feet one inch tallwith
                        a wide forehead, saffron hair and brows, brown, cat-like eyes and a mushy under lip that
                        occasionally covered the upper one as he thought. After years and years Mr. Avery had learned to
                        smile, but it was m a strange, exotic way. Mostly he gazed steadily, folded his lower lip over
                        his upper one and expressed his almost unchangeable conclusions in slow Addisonian phrases. In
                        the present crisis it was Mr. Avery who had a suggestion to make.
                    "One thing that I think could be done," he said to Cowperwood one
                        day in a very confidential conference, "would be to have a look into thetheshall I say
                        the heart affairs-of the Hon. Chaffee Thayer Sluss." Mr Avery's cat-like eyes
                        gleamed sardonically "Unless I am greatly mistaken, judging the man by his personal
                        presence merely, he is the sort of person who probably has had, or if not might readily be
                        induced to have some compromising affair with a woman which would require considerable sacrifice
                             on his part to smooth over. We are all human and
                        vulnerable"up went Mr. Avery's lower lip covering the upper one, and then down
                        again"and it does not behoove any of us to be too severely ethical and self-righteous.
                        Mr. Sluss is a well-meaning man, but a trifle sentimental, as I take it."
                    As Mr. Avery paused Cowperwood merely contemplated him, amused no less by his
                        personal appearance than by his suggestion.
                    "Not a bad idea," he said, "though I don't like
                        to mix heart affairs with politics."
                    "Yes," said Mr. Avery, soulfully, "there may be something
                        in it. I don't know. You never can tell."
                    The upshot of this was that the task of obtaining an account of Mr. Sluss's
                        habits, tastes, and proclivities was assigned to that now rather dignified legal personage, Mr.
                        Burton Stimson, who in turn assigned it to an assistant, a Mr. Marchbanks. It was an amazing
                        situation in some respects, but those who know anything concerning the intricacies of politics,
                        finance, and corporate control, as they were practised in those palmy days, would never marvel
                        at the wells of subtlety, sinks of misery, and morasses of disaster which they represented.
                    From another quarter, the Hon. Patrick Gilgan was not slow in responding to
                        Cowperwood's message. Whatever his political connections and proclivities, he did not
                        care to neglect so powerful a man.
                    "And what can I be doing for you to-day, Mr. Cowperwood?" he
                        inquired, when he arrived looking nice and fresh, very spick and span after his victory.
                    "Listen, Mr. Gilgan," said Cowperwood, simply, eying the Republican
                        county chairman very fixedly and twiddling his thumbs with fingers interlocked, "are
                        you going to let the city council jam through the General Electric and that South Side
                        'L' road ordinance without giving me a chance to say a word or do anything
                        about it?"
                    Mr. Gilgan, so Cowperwood knew, was only one of a new quadrumvirate setting out to
                        rule the city, but he pretended to believe that he was the last wordan all power and
                        authorityafter the fashion of McKenty.
                    "Me good man," replied Gilgan, archly, "you flatter me.
                    
                    I haven't the city council in me vest pocket. I've been county
                        chairman, it's true, and helped to elect some of these men, but I don't
                        own'em. Why shouldn't they pass the General Electric ordinance? It's
                        an honest ordinance, as far as I know. All the newspapers have been for it. As for this
                        'L' road ordinance, I haven't anything to do with it. It
                        isn't anything I know much about. Young MacDonald and Mr. Schryhart are looking after
                        that."
                    As a matter of fact, all that Mr. Gilgan was saying was decidedly true. A henchman of
                        young MacDonald's who was beginning to learn to play politicsan alderman by the name of
                        Klemmhad been scheduled as a kind of field-marshal, and it was MacDonaldnot Gilgan, Tiernan,
                        Kerrigan, or Edstrom who was to round up the recalcitrant aldermen, telling them their duty.
                        Gilgan's quadrumvirate had not as yet got their machine in good working order, though
                        they were doing their best to bring this about. "I helped to elect every one of these
                        men it's true; but that doesn't mean I'm running 'em by any
                        means," concluded Gilgan. "Not yet, anyhow."
                    At the "not yet" Cowperwood smiled.
                    "Just the same, Mr. Gilgan" he went on, smoothly,
                        "you're the nominal head and front of this whole movement in opposition to me
                        at present, and you're the one I have to look to. You have this present Republican
                        situation almost entirely in your own fingers, and you can do about as you like if
                        you're so minded. If you choose you can persuade the members of council to take
                        considerable more time than they otherwise would in passing these ordinances-of that
                        I'm sure. I don't know whether you know or not, Mr. Gilgan, though I suppose
                        you do, that this whole fight against me is a strike campaign intended to drive me out of
                        Chicago. Now you're a man of sense and judgment and considerable business experience,
                        and I want to ask you if you think that is fair. I came here some sixteen or seventeen years ago
                        and went into the gas business. It was an open field, the field I undertook to developoutlying
                        towns on the North, South, and West sides. Yet the moment I started the old-line companies began
                        to fight me, though I wasn't invading their territory at all at the time."
                    
                    "I remember it well enough," replied Gilgan. "I was one of
                        the men that helped you to get your Hyde Park franchise. You'd never have got it if it
                        hadn't been for me. That fellow McKibben," added Gilgan, with a grin,
                        "a likely chap, him. He always walked as if e had on rubber shoes. He's with
                        you yet, I suppose?"
                    "Yes, he's around here somewhere," replied Cowperwood,
                        loftily. "But to go back to this other matter, most of the men that are behind this
                        General Electric ordinance and this 'L' road franchise were in the gas
                        businessBlackman, Jules, Baker, Sehryhart, and othersand they are angry because I came into
                        their field, and angrier still because they had eventually to buy me out. They're angry
                        because I reorganized these old-fashioned street-railway companies here and put them on their
                        feet. Merrill is angry because I didn't run a loop around his store, and the others are
                        angry because I ever got a loop at all. They're all angry because I managed to step in
                        and do the things that they should have done long before. I came hereand that's the
                        whole story in a nutshell. I've had to have the city council with me to be able to do
                        anything at all, and because I managed to make it friendly and keep it so they've
                        turned on me in that section and gone into politics. I know well enough, Mr. Gilgan,"
                        concluded Cowperwood, "who has been behind you in this fight. I've known all
                        along where the money has been coming from. You've won, and you've won
                        handsomely, and I for one don't begrudge you your victory in the least; but what I want
                        to know now is, are you going to help them carry this fight on against me in this way, or are
                        you not? Are you going to give me a fighting chance? There's going to be another
                        election in two years. Politics isn't a bed of roses that stays made just because you
                        make it once. These fellows that you have got in with are a crowd of silk stockings. They
                        haven't any sympathy with you or any one like you. They're willing to be
                        friendly with you nowjust long enough to get something out of you and club me to death. But
                        after that how long do you think they will have any Use for youhow long?"
                    "Not very long, maybe," replied Gilgan, simply and contemplatively,
                             "but the world is the world, and we
                        have to take it as we find it."
                    "Quite so," replied Cowperwood, undismayed; "but Chicago
                        is Chicago, and I will be here as long as they will. Fighting me in this fashionbuilding
                        elevated roads to cut into my profits and giving franchises to rival companiesisn't
                        going to get me out or seriously injure me, either. I'm here to stay, and the political
                        situation as it is to-day isn't going to remain the same forever and ever. Now, you are
                        an ambitious man; I can see that. You're not in politics for your healththat I know.
                        Tell me exactly what it is you want and whether I can't get it for you as quick if not
                        quicker than these other fellows? What is it I can do for you that will make you see that my
                        side is just as good as theirs and better? I am playing a legitimate game in Chicago.
                        I've been building up an excellent street-car service. I don't want to be
                        annoyed every fifteen minutes by a rival company coming into the field. Now, what can I do to
                        straighten this out? Isn't there some way that you and I can come together without
                        fighting at every step? Can't you suggest some programme we can both follow that will
                        make things easier?"
                    Cowperwood paused, and Gilgan thought for a long time. It was true, as Cowperwood
                        said, that he was not in politics for his health. The situation, as at present conditioned, was
                        not inherently favorable for the brilliant programme he had originally mapped out for himself.
                        Tiernan, Kerrigan, and Edstrom were friendly as yet; but they were already making extravagant
                        demands; and the reformersthose who had been led by the newspapers to believe that Cowperwood
                        was a scoundrel and all his works vilewere demanding that a strictly moral programme he adhered
                        to in all the doings of council, and that no jobs, contracts, or deals of any kind be entered
                        into without the full knowledge of the newspapers and of the public. Gilgan, even after the
                        first post-election conference with his colleagues, had begun to feel that he was between the
                        devil and the deep sea, but he was feeling his way, and not inclined to be in too much of a
                        hurry.
                    "It's rather a flat proposition you're makin'
                        me," he said softly, after a time, "askin' me to throw down me  friends the moment I've won a victory for
                        'em. It's not the way I've been used to playin' politics.
                        There may be a lot of truth in what you say. Still a man can't be jump-in around like a
                        cat in a bag. He has to be faithful to somebody sometime." Mr. Gilgan paused,
                        considerably nonplussed by his own position.
                    "Well," replied Cowperwood, sympathetically "think it
                        over. It's difficult business, this business of politics. I'm in it, for one,
                        only because I have to be. If you see any way you can help me, or I can help you, let me know.
                        In the mean time don't take in bad part what I've just said. I'm in
                        the position of a man with his back to the wall. I'm fighting for my life. Naturally,
                        I'm going to fight. But you and I needn't be the worse friends for that. We
                        may become the best of friends yet."
                    "It's well I know that," said Gilgan, "and
                        it's the best of friends I'd like to be with you. But even if I could take
                        care of the aldermen, which I couldn't alone as yet, there's the mayor. I
                        don't know him at all except to say how-do-ye-do now and then; but he's very
                        much opposed to you, as I understand it. He'll be running around most likely and
                        talking in the papers. A man like that can do a good deal."
                    "I may be able to arrange for that," replied Cowperwood.
                        "Perhaps Mr. Sluss can be reached. It may be that he isn't as opposed to me as
                        he thinks he is. You never can tell."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIX
                    THE NEW ADMINISTRATION
                    OLIVER MARCHBANKS, the youthful fox to whom Stimson had assigned the task of trapping
                        Mr. Sluss in some legally unsanctioned act, had by scurrying about finally pieced together
                        enough of a story to make it exceedingly unpleasant for the Honorable Chaffee in case he were to
                        become the too willing tool of Cowperwood's enemies. The principal agent in this affair
                        was a certain Claudia Carlstadtadventuress, detective by disposition, and a sort of smiling
                        prostitute and hireling, who was at the same time a highly presentable and experienced
                        individual. Needless to say, Cowperwood knew nothing of these minor proceedings, though a genial
                        nod from him in the beginning had set in motion the whole machinery of trespass in this respect.
                    Claudia Carlstadtthe instrument of the Honorable Chaffee's undoingwas
                        blonde, slender, notably fresh as yet, being only twenty-six, and as ruthless and unconsciously
                        cruel as only the avaricious and unthinking typeunthinking in the larger philosophic meaning of
                        the wordcan be. To grasp the reason for her being, one would have had to see the spiritless
                        South Halstead Street world from which she had sprungone of those neighborhoods of old, cracked,
                        and battered houses where slatterns trudge to and fro with beer-cans and shutters swing on
                        broken hinges. In her youth Claudia had been made to "rush the growler," to
                        sell newspapers at the corner of Halstead and Harrison streets, and to buy cocaine at the
                        nearest drug store. Her little dresses and underclothing had always been of the poorest and
                        shabbiest materialtorn and dirty, her ragged stockings frequently showed the white flesh of her
                        thin little legs, and her shoes were worn and cracked, letting the water  and snow seep through in winter. Her companions were wretched little
                        street boys of her own neighborhood, from whom she learned to swear and to understand and
                        indulge in vile practices, though, as is often the case with children, she was not utterly
                        depraved thereby, at that. At eleven, when her mother died, she ran away from the wretched
                        children's home to which she had been committed, and by putting up a piteous tale she
                        was harbored on the West Side by an Irish family whose two daughters were clerks in a large
                        retail store. Through these Claudia became a cash-girl. Thereafter followed an individual career
                        as strange and checkered as anything that had gone before. Sufficient to say that
                        Claudia's native intelligence was considerable. At the age of twenty she had
                        managedthrough her connections with the son of a shoe manufacturer and with a rich jewelerto
                        amass a little cash and an extended wardrobe. It was then that a handsome young Western
                        Congressman, newly elected, invited her to Washington to take a position in a government bureau.
                        This necessitated a knowledge of stenography and typewriting, which she soon acquired. Later she
                        was introduced by a Western Senator into that form of secret service which has no connection
                        with legitimate government, but which is profitable. She was used to extract secrets by flattery
                        and cajolery where ordinary bribery would not avail. A matter of tracing the secret financial
                        connections of an Illinois Congressman finally brought her back to Chicago, and here young
                        Stimson encountered her. From him she learned of the political and financial conspiracy against
                        Cowperwood, and was in an odd manner fascinated. From her Congressmen friends she already knew
                        something of Sluss. Stimson indicated that it would be worth two or three thousand dollars and
                        expenses if the mayor were successfully compromised. Thus Claudia Carlstadt was gently navigated
                        into Mr. Sluss's glowing life.
                    The matter was not so difficult of accomplishment. Through the Hon. Joel Avery,
                        Marchbanks secured a letter from a political friend of Mr. Sluss in behalf of a young
                        widowtemporarily embarrassed, a competent stenographer, and the likewho wished a place under the
                        new  administration. Thus equipped, Claudia presented
                        herself at the mayor's office armed for the fray, as it were, in a fetching black silk
                        of a strangely heavy grain, her threat and fingers ornamented with simple pearls, her yellow
                        hair arranged about her temples in exquisite curls. Mr. Sluss was very busy, but made an
                        appointment. The next time she appeared a yellow and red velvet rose had been added to her
                        corsage. She was a shapely, full-bosomed young woman who had acquired the art of walking,
                        sitting, standing, and bending after the most approved theories of the Washington cocotte. Mr.
                        Sluss was interested at once, but circumspect and careful. He was now mayor of a great city, the
                        cynosure of all eyes. It seemed to him he remembered having already met Mrs. Brandon as the lady
                        styled herself, and she reminded him where. It had been two years before in the grill of the
                        Richelieu. He immediately recalled details of the interesting occasion.
                    "Ah, yes, and since then, as I understand it you married and your husband
                        died. Most unfortunate."
                    Mr. Sluss had a large international manner suited, as he thought, to a man in so
                        exalted a position.
                    Mrs. Brandon nodded resignedly. Her eyebrows and lashes were carefully darkened so as
                        to sweeten the lines of her face, and a dimple had been made in one cheek by the aid of an
                        orange stick. She was the picture of delicate femininity appealingly distressful, and yet to all
                        appearance commercially competent.
                    "At the time I met you you were connected with the government service in
                        Washington, I believe."
                    "Yes, I had a small place in the Treasury Department, but this new
                        administration put me out."
                    She lifted her eyes and leaned forward, thus bringing her torso into a ravishing
                        position. She had the air of one who has done many things besides work in the Treasury
                        Department. No least detail, as she observed, was lost on Mr. Sluss. He noted her shoes, which
                        were button patent leather with cloth tops her gloves, which were glac$eA black kid with white
                        stitching at the back and fastened by dark-garnet buttons; the coral necklace worn on this
                        occasion, and her yellow and red velvet rose. Evidently a trig and hopeful widow, even if so
                        recently bereaved.
                    
                    "Let me see," mused Mr. Sluss, "where are you living? Just
                        let me make a note of your address. This is a very nice letter from Mr. Barry. Suppose you give
                        me a few days to think what I can do? This is Tuesday. Come in again on Friday. I'll
                        see if anything suggests itself."
                    He strolled with her to the official door, and noted that her step was light and
                        springy. At parting she turned a very melting gaze upon him, and at once he decided that f he
                        could he would find her something. She was the most fascinating applicant that had yet appeared.
                    The end of Chaffee Thayer Sluss was not far distant after this. Mrs. Brandon
                        returned, as requested, her costume enlivened this time by a red-silk petticoat which contrived
                        to show its ingratiating flounces beneath the glistening black broadcloth of her skirt.
                    "Say, did you get on to that?" observed one of the doormen, a
                        hold-over from the previous r$eAgime, to another of the same vintage. "Some style to
                        the new administration, hey? We're not so slow, do you think?"
                    He pulled his coat together and fumbled at his collar to give himself an air of
                        smartness, and gazed gaily at his partner, both of them over sixty and dusty specimens, at that.
                    The other poked him in the stomach. "Hold your horses there, Bill. Not so
                        fast. We ain't got a real start yet. Give us another six months, and then watch
                        out."
                    Mr. Sluss was pleased to see Mrs. Brandon. He had spoken to John Bastienelli, the new
                        commissioner of taxes, whose offices were directly over the way on the same hall, and the
                        latter, seeing that he might want favors of the mayor later on, had volubly agreed to take care
                        of the lady.
                    "I am very glad to be able to give you this letter to Mr.
                        Bastienelli," commented Mr. Sluss, as he rang for a stenographer, "not only
                        for the sake of my old friend Mr. Barry, but for your own as well. Do you know Mr. Barry very
                        well?" he asked, curiously.
                    "Only slightly," admitted Mrs. Brandon, feeling that Mr. Sluss
                        would be glad to know she was not very intimate with those who were recommending her.
                        "I was sent to him by a Mr. Amerman." (She named an entirely fictitious
                        personage.)
                    
                    Mr. Sluss was relieved. As he handed her the note she once more surveyed him with
                        those grateful, persuasive, appealing eyes. They made him almost dizzy and set up a chemical
                        perturbation in his blood which quite dispelled his good resolutions in regard to the strange
                        woman and his need of being circumspect.
                    "You say you are living on the North Side?" he inquired, smiling
                        weakly almost foolishly.
                    "Yes, I have taken such a nice little apartment overlooking Lincoln Park. I
                        didn't know whether I was going to be able to keep it up, but now that I have this
                        positionYou've been so very kind to me, Mr. Sluss," she concluded, with the
                        same I-need-to-be-cared-for air "I hope you won't forget me entirely. If I
                        could be of any personal service to you at any time"
                    Mr. Sluss was rather beside himself at the thought that this charming baggage of
                        femininity, having come so close for the minute, was now passing on and might disappear
                        entirely. By a great effort of daring, as they walked toward the door, he managed to say:
                        "I shall have to look into that little place of yours sometime and see how you are
                        getting along. I live up that way myself."
                    "Oh, do!" she exclaimed, warmly. "It would be so kind. I
                        am practically alone in the world. Perhaps you play cards. I know how to make a most wonderful
                        punch. I should like you to see how cozily I am settled."
                    At this Mr. Sluss, now completely in tow of his principal weakness, capitulated.
                        "I will," he said, "I surely will. And that sooner than you expect,
                        perhaps. You must let me know how you are getting along."
                    He took her hand. She held his quite warmly. "Now I'll hold you to
                        your promise," she gurgled, in a throaty, coaxing way. A few days later he encountered
                        her at lunch-rime in his hall, where she had been literally lying in wait for him in order to
                        repeat her invitation. Then he came.
                    The hold-over employees who worked about the City Hal in connection with the
                        mayor's office were hereafter instructed to note as witnesses the times of arrival and
                        departure of Mrs. Brandon and Mr. Sluss. A note that he wrote to Mrs. Brandon was carefully
                        treasured, and sufficient  evidence as to their
                        presence at hotels and restaurants was garnered to make out a damaging case. The whole affair
                        took about four months; then Mrs. Brandon suddenly received an offer to return to Washington,
                        and decided to depart. The letters that followed her were a part of the data that was finally
                        assembled in Mr. Stimson's office to be used against Mr. Sluss in case he became too
                        obstreperous in his opposition to Cowperwood.
                    In the mean time the organization which Mr. Gilgan had planned with Mr. Tiernan, Mr.
                        Kerrigan, and Mr. Edstrom was encountering what might he called rough sledding. It was
                        discovered that, owing to the temperaments of some of the new aldermen, and to the
                        self-righteous attitude of their political sponsors, no franchises of any kind were to be passed
                        unless they had the moral approval of such men as Hand, Sluss, and the other reformers; above
                        all, no money of any kind was to be paid to anybody for anything.
                    "Whaddye think of those damn four-flushers and come-ons, anyhow?"
                        inquired Mr. Kerrigan of Mr. Tiernan, shortly subsequent to a conference with Gilgan, from which
                        Tiernan had been unavoidably absent. "They've got an ordinance drawn up
                        covering the whole city in an elevated-road scheme, and there ain't anything in it for
                        anybody. Say, whaddye think they think we are, anyhow? Hey?"
                    Mr. Tiernan himself, after his own conference with Edstrom, had been busy getting the
                        lay of the land, as he termed it; and his investigations led him to believe that a certain
                        alderman by the name of Klemm, a clever and very respectable German-American from the North
                        Side, was to he the leader of the Republicans in council, and that he and some ten or twelve
                        others were determined, because of moral principles alone, that only honest measures should be
                        passed. It was staggering.
                    At this news Mr. Kerrigan, who had been calculating on a number of thousands of
                        dollars for his vote on various occasions, stared incredulously. "Well, I'll
                        he damned!" he commented. "They've got a nerve! What?"
                    "I've been talking to this fellow Klemm of the twentieth,"
                             said Mr. Tiernan, sardonically. "Say,
                        he's a real one! I met him over at the Tremont talkin' to Hvranek. He shakes
                        hands like a dead fish. Whaddye think he had the nerve to say to me. 'This
                        isn't the Mr. Tiernan of the second?' he says."
                    "'I'm the same,' says I.
                    "'Well, you don't look as savage as I thought you
                        did,' says he. Haw-haw! I felt like sayin', 'If you don't go
                        way I'll give you a slight tap on the wrist.' I'd like just one pass
                        at a stiff like that up a dark alley." (Mr. Tiernan almost groaned in anguish.)
                        "And then he begins to say he doesn't see how there can be any reasonable
                        objection to allowin' various new companies to enter the street-car field.
                        'It's sufficiently clear' he says, 'that the public is
                        against monopolies in any form.'" (Mr. Tiernan was mocking Mr.
                        Klemm's voice and language.) "My eye!" he concluded, sententiously.
                        "Wait till he tries to throw that dope into Gumble and Pinski and Schlumbohmhaw, haw,
                        haw!"
                    Mr. Kerrigan, at the thought of these hearty aldermen accustomed to all the
                        perquisites of graft and rake-off, leaned back and gave vent to a burst of deep-chested
                        laughter. "I'll tell you what it is, Mike," he said, archly, hitching
                        up his tight, very artistic, and almost English trousers, "we're up against a
                        bunch of pikers in this Gilgan crowd, and they've gotta be taught a lesson. He knows it
                        as well as anybody else. None o' that Christian con game goes around where I am. I
                        believe this man Cowperwood's right when he says them fellows are a bunch of soreheads
                        and jealous. If Cowperwood's willing to put down good hard money to keep 'em
                        out of his game, let them do as much to stay in it. This ain't no charity grab-bag. We
                        ought to be able to round up enough of these new fellows to make Schryhart and MacDonald come
                        down good and plenty for what they want. From what Gilgan said all along, I thought he was
                        dealing with live ones. They paid to win the election. Now let 'em pay to pull off a
                        swell franchise if they want it, eh?"
                    "You're damn right," echoed Tiernan.
                        "I'm with you to a T."
                    It was not long after this conversation that Mr. Truman  Leslie MacDonald, acting through Alderman Klemm, proceeded to make a count of
                        noses, and found to his astonishment that he was not as strong as he had thought he was.
                        Political loyalty is such a fickle thing. A number of aldermen with curious namesHorback,
                        Fogarty, McGrane, Sumulskyshowed signs of being tampered with. He hurried at once to Messrs.
                        Hand, Schryhart, and Arneel with this disconcerting information. They had been congratulating
                        themselves that the recent victory, if it resulted in nothing else, would at least produce a
                        blanket "L" road franchise, and that this would be sufficient to bring
                        Cowperwood to his knees.
                    Upon receiving MacDonald's message Hand sent at once for Gilgan. When he
                        inquired as to how soon a vote on the General Electric franchisewhich had been introduced by Mr.
                        Klemmcould reasonably be expected, Gilgan declared himself much grieved to admit that in one
                        direction or other considerable opposition seemed to have developed to the measure.
                    "What's that?" said Hand, a little savagely.
                        "Didn't we make a plain bargain in regard to this? You had all the money you
                        asked for, didn't you? You said you coma give me twenty-six aldermen who would vote as
                        we agreed. You're not going to go back on your bargain, are you?"
                    "Bargain! bargain!" retorted Gilgan irritated because of the spirit
                        of the assault. "I agreed to elect twenty-six Republican aldermen, and that I did. I
                        don't own 'em body and soul. I didn't name 'em in every
                        case. I made deals with the men in the different wards that had the best chance, and that the
                        people wanted. I'm not responsible for any crooked work that's going on behind
                        my back, am I? I'm not responsible for men's not being straight if
                        they're not?"
                    Mr Gilgan's face was an aggrieved question-mark.
                    "But you had the picking of these men," insisted Mr. Hand,
                        aggressively. "Every one of them had your personal indorsement. You made the deals with
                        them. You don't mean to say they're going back on their sacred agreement to
                        fight Cowperwood tooth and nail? There can't be any misunderstanding on their part as
                        to what they were elected to do. The newspapers have been full of the  fact that nothing favorable to Cowperwood was to be put
                        through."
                    "That's all true enough," replied Mr. Gilgan;
                        "but I can't be held responsible for the private honesty of everybody. Sure I
                        selected these men. Sure I did! But I selected them with the help of the rest of the Republicans
                        and some of the Democrats. I had to make the best terms I couldto pick the men that could win.
                        As far as I can find out most of 'em are satisfied not to do anything for Cowperwood.
                        It's passing these ordinances in favor of other people that's stirring up the
                        trouble."
                    Mr. Hand's broad forehead wrinkled and his blue eyes surveyed Mr. Gilgan
                        with suspicion. "Who are these men, anyhow?" he inquired.
                        "I'd like to get a list of them."
                    Mr. Gilgan, safe in his own subtlety, was ready with a toll of the supposed
                        recalcitrants. They must fight their own battles. Mr. Hand wrote down the names, determining
                        meanwhile to bring pressure to bear. He decided also to watch Mr. Gilgan. If there should prove
                        to be a hitch in the programme the newspapers should be informed and commanded to thunder
                        appropriately. Such aldermen as proved unfaithful to the great trust imposed on them should be
                        smoked out, followed back to the wards which had elected them, and exposed to the people who
                        were behind them. Their names should be pilloried in the public press. The customary hints as to
                        Cowperwood's deviltry and trickery should be redoubled.
                    But in the mean time Messrs. Stimson, Avery, McKibben, Van Sickle, and others were on
                        Cowperwood's behalf acting separately upon various unattached aldermenthose not
                        temperamentally and chronically allied with the reform ideaand making them understand that if
                        they could find it possible to refrain from supporting anti-Cowperwood measures for the next two
                        years, a bonus in the shape of an annual salary of two thousand dollars or a gift in some other
                        formperhaps a troublesome note indorsed or a mortgage taken care ofwould be forthcoming,
                        together with a guarantee that the general public should never know. In no case was such an
                        offer made direct. Friends or neighbors, or suave unidentified strangers, brought mysterious
                        "messages. By this method some eleven aldermenquite  apart from the ten regular Democrats who, because of McKenty and his
                        influence, could be counted uponhad been already suborned. Although Schryhart, Hand, and Arneel
                        did not know it, their planseven as they plannedwere being thus undermined, and, try as they
                        would, the coveted ordinance for a blanket franchise persistently eluded them. They had to
                        content themselves for the time being with a franchise for a single "L" road
                        line on the South Side in Schryhart's own territory, and with a franchise to the
                        General Electric covering only one unimportant line, which it would be easy for Cowperwood, if
                        he continued in power, to take over at some later time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XL
                    A TRIP TO LOUISVILLE
                    THE most serious difficulty confronting Cowperwood from now on was really not so much
                        political as financial. In building up and financing his Chicago street-railway enterprises he
                        had in those days when Addison was president of the Lake City National, used that bank as his
                        chief source of supply. Afterward, when Addison had been forced to retire from the Lake City to
                        assume charge of the Chicago Trust Company, Cowperwood had succeeded in having the latter
                        designated as a central reserve and in inducing a number of rural banks to keep their special
                        deposits in its vaults. However, since the war on him and his interests had begun to strengthen
                        through the efforts of Hand and Arneelmen most influential in the control of the other
                        central-reserve banks of Chicago, and in close touch with the money barons of New Yorkthere were
                        signs not wanting that some of the country banks depositing with the Chicago Trust Company had
                        been induced to withdraw because of pressure from outside inimical forces, and that more were to
                        follow. It was some time before Cowperwood fully realized to what an extent this financial
                        opposition might be directed against himself. In its very beginning it necessitated speedy
                        hurryings to New York, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Baltimore, Bostoneven London at timeson the
                        chance that there would be loose and ready cash in some one's possession. It was on one
                        of these peregrinations that he encountered a curious personality which led to various
                        complications in his life, sentimental and otherwise, which he had not hitherto contemplated.
                    In various sections of the country Cowperwood had met many men of wealth, some grave,
                        some gay, with whom  he did business, and among these
                        in Louisville, Kentucky, he encountered a certain Col. Nathaniel Gillis, very wealthy, a
                        horseman, inventor, rout, from whom he occasionally extracted loans. The Colonel was an
                        interesting figure in Kentucky society; and, taking a great liking to Cowperwood, he found
                        pleasure, during the brief periods in which they were together, in piloting him about. On one
                        occasion in Louisville he observed: "To-night, Frank, with your permission, I am going
                        to introduce you to one of the most interesting women I know. She isn't good, but
                        she's entertaining. She has had a troubled history. She is the ex-wife of two of my
                        best friends both dead, and the ex-mistress of another. I like her because I knew her father and
                        mother, and because she was a clever little girl and still is a nice woman, even if she is
                        getting along. She keeps a sort of house of convenience here in Louisville for a few of her old
                        friends. You haven't anything particular to do to-night, have you? Suppose we go around
                        there?"
                    Cowperwood, who was always genially sportive when among strong mena sort of bounding
                        collieand who liked to humor those who could be of use to him, agreed.
                    "It sounds interesting to me. Certainly I'll go. Tell me more about
                        her. Is she good-looking?"
                    "Rather. But better yet, she is connected with a number of women who
                        are." The Colonel, who had a small, gray goatee and sportive dark eyes, winked the
                        latter solemnly.
                    Cowperwood arose.
                    "Take me there," he said.
                    It was a rainy night. The business on which he was seeing the Colonel required
                        another day to complete. There was little or nothing to do. On the way the Colonel retailed more
                        of the life history of Nannie Hedden, as he familiarly called her, and explained that, although
                        this was her maiden name, she had subsequently become first Mrs. John Alexander Fleming, then,
                        after a divorce, Mrs. Ira George Carter, and now, alas! was known among the exclusive set of
                        fast livers, to which he belonged, as plain Hattie Starr, the keeper of a more or less secret
                        house of ill repute. Cowperwood did not take so much interest in all this until he saw her, and
                        then only because of two children the Colonel  told
                        him about, one a girl by her first marriage, Berenice Fleming, who was away in a New York
                        boarding-school, the other a boy, Rolfe Carter, who was in a military school for boys somewhere
                        in the West.
                    "That daughter of hers," observed the Colonel, "is a chip
                        of the old block, unless I miss my guess. I only saw her two or three times a few years ago when
                        I was down East at her mother's summer home; but she struck me as having great charm
                        even for a girl of ten. She's a lady born, if ever there was one. How her mother is to
                        keep her straight, living as she does, is more than I know. How she keeps her in that school is
                        a mystery. There's apt to be a scandal here at any time. I'm very sure the
                        girl doesn't know anything about her mother's business. She never lets her
                        come out here."
                    "Berenice Fleming," Cowperwood thought to himself. "What a
                        pleasing name, and what a peculiar handicap in life."
                    "How old is the daughter now?" he inquired.
                    "Oh, she must be about fifteennot more than that."
                    When they reached the house, which was located in a rather somber, treeless street,
                        Cowperwood was surprised to find the interior spacious and tastefully furnished. Presently Mrs.
                        Carter, as she was generally known in society, or Hattie Start, as she was known to a less
                        satisfying world, appeared. Cowperwood realized at once that he was in the presence of a woman
                        who, whatever her present occupation, was not without marked evidences of refinement. She was
                        exceedingly intelligent, if not highly intellectual, trig, vivacious, anything but commonplace.
                        A certain spirited undulation in her walk, a seeming gay, frank indifference to her position in
                        life, an obvious accustomedness to polite surroundings took his fancy. Her hair was built up in
                        a loose Frenchy way, after the fashion of the empire, and her cheeks were slightly mottled with
                        red veins. Her color was too high, and yet it was not utterly unbecoming. She had friendly
                        gray-blue eyes, which went well with her fight-brown hair; along with a pink flowered
                        house-gown, which became her fulling figure, she wore pearls.
                    "The widow of two husbands," thought Cowperwood;  "the mother of two children!" With
                        the Colonel's easy introduction began a light conversation. Mrs. Carter gracefully
                        persisted that she had known of Cowperwood for some time. His strenuous street-railway
                        operations were more or less familiar to her.
                    "It would be nice," she suggested, "since Mr. Cowperwood
                        is here, if we invited Grace Deming to call."
                    The latter was a favorite of the Colonel's.
                    "I would be very glad if I could talk to Mrs. Carter," gallantly
                        volunteered Cowperwoodhe scarcely knew why. He was curious to learn more of her history. On
                        subsequent occasions, and in more extended conversation with the Colonel, it was retailed to him
                        in full.
                    Nannie Hedden, or Mrs. John Alexander Fleming, or Mrs. Ira George Carter, or Hattie
                        Starr, was by birth a descendant of a long line of Virginia and Kentucky Heddens and Colters,
                        related in a definite or vague way to half the aristocracy of four or five of the surrounding
                        states. Now, although still a woman of brilliant parts she was the keeper of a select house of
                        assignation in this meager city of perhaps two hundred thousand population. How had it happened?
                        How could it possibly have come about? She had been in her day a reigning beauty. She had been
                        born to money and had married money. Her first husband, John Alexander Fleming, who had
                        inherited wealth, tastes, privileges, and vices from a long line of slave-holding,
                        tobacco-growing Flemings, was a charming man of the Kentucky-Virginia society type. He had been
                        trained in the law with a view to entering the diplomatic service, but being an idler by nature,
                        had never done so. Instead, horse-raising, horse-racing, philandering, dancing, hunting, and the
                        like, had taken up his time. When their wedding took place the Kentucky-Virginia society world
                        considered it a great match. There was wealth on both sides. Then came much more of that idle
                        social whirl which had produced the marriage. Even philanderings of a very vital character were
                        not barred, though deception, in some degree at least, would he necessary. As a natural result
                        there followed the appearance in the mountains of North Carolina during a charming autumn outing
                        of a gay young spark by the name of  Tucker Tanner,
                        and the bestowal on him by the beautiful Nannie Flemingas she was then calledof her temporary
                        affections. Kind friends were quick to report what Fleming himself did not see, and Fleming,
                        rou$eA that he was, encountering young Mr. Tanner on a high mountain road one evening, said to
                        him "You get out of this party by night, or I will let daylight through you in the
                        morning." Tucker Tanner, realizing that however senseless and unfair the exaggerated
                        chivalry of the South might be, the end would be bullets just the same, departed. Mrs. Fleming,
                        disturbed but unrepentant, considered herself greatly abused. There was much scandal. Then came
                        quarrels, drinking on both sides, finally a divorce. Mr. Tucker Tanner did not appear to claim
                        his damaged love, but the aforementioned Ira George Carter, a penniless ne'er-do-well
                        of the same generation and social standing, offered himself and was accepted. By the first
                        marriage there had been one child, a girl. By the second there was another child, a boy. Ira
                        George Carter, before the children were old enough to impress Mrs. Carter with the importance of
                        their needs or her own affection for them, had squandered, in one ridiculous venture after
                        another, the bulk of the property willed to her by her father, Major Wickham Hedden. Ultimately,
                        after drunkenness and dissipation on the husband's side, and finally his death, came
                        the approach of poverty. Mrs. Carter was not practical, and still passionate and inclined to
                        dissipation. However, the aimless, fatuous going to pieces of Ira George Carter, the looming
                        pathos of the future of the children, and a growing sense of affection and responsibility had
                        finally sobered her. The lure of love and life had not entirely disappeared, but her chance of
                        sipping at those crystal founts had grown sadly slender. A woman of thirty-eight and still
                        possessing some beauty, she was not content to eat the husks provided for the unworthy. Her
                        gorge rose at the thought of that neglected state into which the pariahs of society fall and on
                        which the inexperienced so cheerfully comment. Neglected by her own set, shunned by the
                        respectable, her fortune quite gone, she was nevertheless determined that she would not be a
                        back-street seamstress or a pensioner upon the bounty of quondam friends. By insensible degrees
                        came first unhallowed  relationships through
                        friendship and passing passion, then a curious intermediate state between the high world of
                        fashion and the half world of harlotry, until, finally, in Louisville, she had become, not
                        openly, but actually, the mistress of a house of ill repute. Men who knew how these things were
                        done, and who were consulting their own convenience far more than her welfare, suggested the
                        advisability of it. Three or four friends like Colonel Gillis wished roomsconvenient place in
                        which to loaf, gamble, and bring their women. Hattie Starr was her name now, and as such she had
                        even become known in a vague way to the policebut only vaguelyas a woman whose home was
                        suspiciously gay on occasions.
                    Cowperwood, with his appetite for the wonders of life, his appreciation of the dramas
                        which produce either failure or success, could not help being interested in this spoiled woman
                        who was sailing so vaguely the seas of chance. Colonel Gillis once said that with some strong
                        man to back her, Nannie Fleming could be put back into society. She had a pleasant appealshe and
                        her two children, of whom she never spoke. After a few visits to her home Cowperwood spent hours
                        talking with Mrs. Carter whenever he was in Louisville. On one occasion, as they were entering
                        her boudoir, she picked up a photograph of her daughter from the dresser and dropped it into a
                        drawer. Cowperwood had never seen this picture before. It was that of a girl of fifteen or
                        sixteen, of whom he obtained but the most fleeting glance. Yet, with that instinct for the
                        essential and vital which invariably possessed him, he gained a keen impression of it. It was of
                        a delicately haggard child with a marvelously agreeable smile, a fine, high-poised head upon a
                        thin neck, and an air of bored superiority. Combined with this was a touch of weariness about
                        the eyelids which drooped in a lofty way. Cowperwood was fascinated. Because of the daughter he
                        professed an interest in the mother, which he really did not feel.
                    A little later Cowperwood was moved to definite action by the discovery in a
                        photographer's window in Louisville of a second picture of Berenicea rather large
                        affair which Mrs. Carter had had enlarged from a print  sent her by her daughter some time before. Berenice was standing rather indifferently posed
                        at the corner of a colonial mantel, a soft straw outing-hat held negligently in one hand, one
                        hip sunk lower than the other, a faint, elusive smile playing dimly around her mouth. The smile
                        was really not a smile, but only the wraith of one, and the eyes were wide, disingenuous,
                        mock-simple. The picture, because of its simplicity, appealed to him. He did not know that Mrs.
                        Carter had never sanctioned its display. "A personage," was
                        Cowperwood's comment to himself, and he walked into the photographer's office
                        to see what could be done about its removal and the destruction of the plates. A half-hundred
                        dollars, he found, would arrange it allplates prints, everything. Since by this ruse he secured
                        a picture for himself, he prompt y had it framed and hung in his Chicago rooms, where sometimes
                        of an afternoon when he was hurrying to change his clothes he stopped to look at it. With each
                        succeeding examination his admiration and curiosity grew. Here was perhaps, he thought, the true
                        society woman, the high-born lady, the realization of that ideal which Mrs. Merrill and many
                        another grande dame had suggested.
                    It was not so long after this again that, chancing to be in Louisville, he discovered
                        Mrs. Carter in a very troubled social condition. Her affairs had received a severe setback. A
                        certain Major Hagenback, a citizen of considerable prominence, had died in her home under
                        peculiar circumstances. He was a man of wealth, married, and nominally living with his wife in
                        Lexington. As a matter of fact, he spent very little time there, and at the time of his death of
                        heart failure was leading a pleasurable existence with a Miss Trent, an actress, whom he had
                        introduced to Mrs. Carter as his friend. The police, through a talkative deputy coroner, were
                        made aware of all the facts. Pictures of Miss Trent, Mrs. Carter, Major Hagenback, his wife, and
                        many curious details concerning Mrs. Carter's home were about to appear in the papers
                        when Colonel Gillis and others who were powerful socially and politically interfered; the affair
                        was hushed up, but Mrs. Carter was in distress. This was more than she had bargained for.
                    
                    Her quondam friends were frightened away for the nonce. She herself had lost courage.
                        When Cowperwood saw her she had been in the very human act of crying, and her eyes were red.
                    "Well, well," he commented, on seeing hershe was in moody gray in
                        the bargain"you don't mean to tell me you're worrying about anything,
                        are you?"
                    "Oh, Mr. Cowperwood," she explained, pathetically, "I ha
                        had so much trouble since I saw you. You heard of Major Hagenback's death.
                        Didn't you?" Cowperwood, who had heard something of the story from Colonel
                        Gillis, nodded. "Well, I have just been notified by the police that I will have to
                        move, and the landlord has given me notice, too. If it just weren't for my two
                        children"
                    She dabbed at her eyes pathetically.
                    Cowperwood meditated interestedly.
                    "Haven't you any place you can go?" he asked.
                    "I have a summer place in Pennsylvania," she confessed;
                        "but I can't go there very well in February. Besides, it's my living
                        I'm worrying about. I have only this to depend on."
                    She waved her hand inclusively toward the various rooms.
                    "Don't you own that place m Pennsylvania?" he inquired.
                    "Yes, but it isn't worth much, and I couldn't sell it. And
                        haven't you any money laid away?"
                    "It's taken all I have to run this place and keep the children in
                        school. I've been trying to give Berenice and Rolfe a chance to do something for
                        themselves."
                    At the repetition of Berenice's name Cowperwood consulted his own interest
                        or mood in the matter. A little assistance for her would not bother him much. Besides, it would
                        probably eventually bring about a meeting with the daughter.
                    "Why don't you clear out of this?" he observed, finally.
                        "It's no business to be in, anyhow, if you have any regard for your children.
                        They can't survive anything like this. You want to put your daughter back in society,
                        don't you?"
                    
                    "Oh yes," almost pleaded Mrs. Carter.
                    "Precisely," commented Cowperwood, who, when he was thinking,
                        almost invariably dropped into a short, cold, curt, business manner, Yet he was humanely
                        inclined in this instance.
                    "Well, then, why not live in your Pennsylvania place for the present, or, if
                        not that, go to New York? You can't stay here. Ship or sell these things." He
                        waved a hand toward the rooms.
                    "I would only too gladly," replied Mrs. Carter, "if I knew
                        what to do."
                    "Take my advice and go to New York for the present. You will get rid of your
                        expenses here, and I will help you with the restfor the present, anyhow. You can get a start
                        again. It is too bad about these children of yours. I will take care of the boy as soon as he is
                        old enough. As for Berenice" he used her name softly"if she can stay in her
                        school until she is nineteen or twenty the chances are that she will make social connections
                        which will save her nicely. The thing for you to do is to avoid meeting any of this old crowd
                        out here in the future if you can. It might be advisable to take her abroad for a time after she
                        leaves school."
                    "Yes, if I just could". sighed Mrs. Carter, rather lamely.
                    "Well, do what I suggest now, and we will see," observed
                        Cowperwood. "It would be a pity if your two children were to have their lives ruined by
                        such an accident as this."
                    Mrs. Carter, realizing that here, in the shape of Cowperwood, if he chose to be
                        generous, was the open way out of a lowering dungeon of misery, was inclined to give vent to a
                        bit of grateful emotion, but, finding him subtly remote, restrained herself. His manner, while
                        warmly generous at times, was also easily distant, except when he wished it to be otherwise.
                        Just now he was thinking of the high soul of Berenice Fleming and of its possible value to
                    him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLI
                    THE DAUGHTER OF MRS. FLEMING
                    BERENICE FLEMING, at the time Cowperwood first encountered her mother, was an inmate
                        of the Misses Brewster's School for Girls, then on Riverside Drive, New York, and one
                        of the most exclusive establishments of its kind in America. The social prestige and connections
                        of the Heddens, Flemings, and Carters were sufficient to gain her this introduction, though the
                        social fortunes of her mother were already at this time on the down grade. A tall girl,
                        delicately haggard, as he had imagined her, with reddish-bronze hair of a tinge but distantly
                        allied to that of Aileen's, she was unlike any woman Cowperwood had ever known. Even at
                        seventeen she stood up and out with an inexplicable superiority which brought her the feverish
                        and exotic attention of lesser personalities whose emotional Animality found an outlet in
                        swinging a censer at her shrine.
                    A strange maiden, decidedly! Even at this age, when she was, as one might suppose, a
                        mere slip of a girl, she was deeply conscious of herself, her sex, her significance, her
                        possible social import. Armed with a fair skin, a few freckles, an almost too high color at
                        times, strange, deep, night-blue, cat-like eyes, a long nose, a rather pleasant mouth, perfect
                        teeth, and a really good chin, she moved always with a feline grace that was careless, superior,
                        sinuous, and yet the acme of harmony and a rhythmic flow of lines. One of her mess-hall tricks,
                        when unobserved by her instructors, was to walk with six plates and a water-pitcher all
                        gracefully poised on the top of her head after the fashion of the Asiatic and the African, her
                        hips moving, her shoulders, neck, and head still. Girls begged weeks on end to have her repeat
                        this "stunt," as they called it. Another was to put her arms behind her and
                        with a rush  imitate the Winged Victory, a copy of
                        which graced the library hall.
                    "You know," one little rosy-cheeked satellite used to urge on her,
                        adoringly, "she must have been like you. Her head must have been like yours. You are
                        lovely when you do it."
                    For answer Berenice s deep, almost black-blue eyes turned on her admirer with solemn
                        unflattered consideration. She awed always by the something that she did not say.
                    The school, for all the noble dames who presided over itsolemn, inexperienced
                        owl-like conventionalists who in sisted on the last tittle and jot of order and procedurewas a
                        joke to Berenice. She recognized the value of its social import, but even at fifteen and sixteen
                        she was superior to it. She was superior to her superiors and to the specimens of
                        maidenhoodsupposed to be perfect sociallywho gathered about to hear her talk, to hear her sing,
                        declaim, or imitate. She was deeply, dramatically, urgently conscious of the value of her
                        personality in itself, not as connected with any inherited social standing, but of its innate
                        worth, and of the artistry and wonder of her body One of her chief delights was to walk alone in
                        her roomsometimes at night, the lamp out, the moon perhaps faintly illuminating her chamberand
                        to pose and survey her body, and dance in some naive, graceful, airy Greek way a dance that was
                        singularly free from sex consiousnessand yet was it? She was conscious of her bodyof every inch
                        of itunder the ivory-white clothes which she frequently wore. Once she wrote in a secret diary
                        which she maintainedanother art impulse or an affectation, as you will "My skin is so
                        wonderful. It tingles so with rich life. I love it and my strong muscles underneath. I love my
                        hands and my hair and my eyes. My hands are long and thin and delicate; my eyes are a dark, deep
                        blue; my hair is a brown, rusty red, thick and sleepy. My long, firm, untired limbs can dance
                        all night. Oh, I love life! I love life!"
                    You would not have called Berenice Fleming sensuousthoug she wasbecause she was
                        self-controlled. Her eyes lied to you. They lied to all the world. They looked  you through and through with a calm savoir faire, a mocking defiance, which said with a faint curl of the
                        lips, barely suggested to help them out, "You cannot read me, you cannot read me. She
                        put her head to one side, smiled, lied (by implication), assumed that there was nothing. And
                        there was nothing, as yet. Yet there was something, tooher inmost convictions, and these she
                        took good care to conceal. The worldhow little it should ever, ever know! How little it ever
                        could know truly!
                    The first time Cowperwood encountered this Circe daughter of so unfortunate a mother
                        was on the occasion of a trip to New York, the second spring following his introduction to Mrs.
                        Carter in Louisville. Berenice was taking some part in the closing exercises of the Brewster
                        School, and Mrs. Carter, with Cowperwood for an escort, decided to go East. Cowperwood having
                        located him-self at the Netherlands, and Mrs. Carter at the much humbler Grenoble, they
                        journeyed together to visit this paragon whose picture he had had hanging in his rooms in
                        Chicago for months past. When they were introduced into the somewhat somber reception parlor of
                        the Brewster School, Berenice came slipping in after a few moments, a noiseless figure of a
                        girl, tall and slim, and deliciously sinuous. Cowperwood saw at first glance that she fulfilled
                        all the promise of her picture, and was delighted. She had, he thought, a strange, shrewd,
                        intelligent smile, which, however, was girlish and friendly. Without so much as a glance m his
                        direction she came forward, extending her arms and hands in an inimitable histrionic manner, and
                        exclaimed, with a practised and yet natural inflection: "Mother, dear! So here you are
                        really! You know, I've been thinking of you all morning. I wasn't sure whether
                        you would come to-day, you change about so. I think I even dreamed of you last night."
                    Her skirts, still worn just below the shoe-tops, had the richness of scraping silk
                        then fashionable. She was also guilty of using a faint perfume of some kind.
                    Cowperwood could see that Mrs. Carter, despite a certain nervousness due to the
                        girl's superior individuality and his presence, was very proud of her. Berenice, he
                        also saw quickly, was measuring him out of the tail of her eye12  a single sweeping glance which she vouchsafed from beneath her long lashes
                        sufficing; but she gathered quite accurately the totality of Cowperwood's age, force,
                        grace, wealth, and worldly ability. Without hesitation she classed him as a man of power in some
                        field, possibly finance, one of the numerous able men whom her mother seemed to know. She always
                        wondered about her mother. His large gray eyes, that searched her with lightning accuracy,
                        appealed to her as pleasant, able eyes. She knew on the instant, young as she was, that he liked
                        women, and that probably he would think her charming; but as for giving him additional attention
                        it was outside her code, one preferred to be interested in her dear mother exclusively.
                    "Berenice," observed Mrs. Carter, airily, "let me
                        introduce Mr. Cowperwood."
                    Berenice turned, and for the fraction of a second leveled a frank and yet
                        condescending glance from wells of what Cowperwood considered to be indigo blue.
                    "Your mother has spoken of you from time to time," he said,
                        pleasantly.
                    She withdrew a cool, thin hand as limp and soft as wax, and turned to her mother
                        again without comment, and yet without the least embarrassment. Cowperwood seemed in no way
                        important to her.
                    "What would you say, dear," pursued Mrs. Carter, after a brief
                        exchange of commonplaces, "if I were to spend next winter in New York?"
                    "It would be charming if I could live at home. I'm sick of this
                        silly boarding-school."
                    "Why, Berenice! I thought you liked it."
                    "I hate it, but only because it's so dull. The girls here are so
                        silly."
                    Mrs. Carter lifted her eyebrows as much as to say to her "Now what do you
                        think?" Cowperwood stood solemnly by. It was not for him to make a suggestion present.
                        He could see that for some reasonprobably because of her disordered lifeMrs. Carter was playing
                        a game of manners with her daughter; she maintained always a lofty, romantic air. With Berenice
                        it was naturalthe expression of a vain, self-conscious, superior disposition.
                    
                    "A rather charming garden here," he observed, lifting e curtain and
                        looking out into a blooming plot.
                    "Yes, the flowers are nice," commented Berenice. "Wait;
                        I'll get some for you. It's against the rules, but they can't do more
                        than send me away, and that's what I want."
                    "Berenice! Come back here!"
                    It was Mrs. Carter calling.
                    The daughter was gone in a fling of graceful lines and flounces.
                    "Now what do you make of her?" asked Mrs. Carter, turning to her
                        friend.
                    "Youth, individuality, energya hundred things. I see nothing wrong with
                        her."
                    "If I could only see to it that she had her opportunities
                        unspoiled."
                    Already Berenice was returning, a subject for an artist in almost studied lines. Her
                        arms were full of sweet-peas and roses which she had ruthlessly gathered.
                    "You wilful girl!" scolded her mother, indulgently. "I
                        shall have to go and explain to your superiors. Whatever shall I do with her, Mr.
                        Cowperwood?"
                    "Load her with daisy chains and transport her to Cytherea,"
                        commented Cowperwood, who had once visited this romantic isle, and therefore knew its
                        significance.
                    Berenice paused. "What a pretty speech that is!" she exclaimed. I
                        have a notion to give you a special flower for that. I will, too." She presented him
                        with a rose.
                    For a girl who had slipped in shy and still, Cowperwood commented, her mood had
                        certainly changed. Still, this was the privilege of the born actress, to change. And as he
                        viewed Berenice Fleming now he felt her to be sucha born actress, lissome, subtle, wise,
                        indifferent, superior, taking the world as she found it and expecting it to obeyto sit up like a
                        pet dog and be told to beg. What a charming character! What a pity it should not be allowed to
                        bloom undisturbed in its make-believe garden! What a pity, indeed!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLII
                    F. A. COWPERWOOD, GUARDIAN
                    IT was some time after this first encounter before Cowperwood saw Berenice again, and
                        then only for a few days in that region of the Pocono Mountains where Mrs. Carter had her summer
                        home. It was an idyllic spot on a mountainside, some three miles from Stroudsburg, among a
                        peculiar juxtaposition of hills which, from the comfortable recesses of a front veranda, had the
                        appearance, as Mrs. Carter was fond of explaining, of elephants and camels parading in the
                        distance. The humps of the hillssome of them as high as eighteen hundred feetrose stately and
                        green. Below, quite visible for a mile or more, moved the dusty, white road descending to
                        Stroudsburg. Out of her Louisville earnings Mrs. Carter had managed to employ, for the several
                        summer seasons she had been here, a gardener, who kept the sloping front lawn in seasonable
                        flowers. There was a trig two-wheeled trap with a smart horse and harness, and both Rolfe and
                        Berenice were possessed of the latest novelty of the dayhlow-wheeled bicycles, which had just
                        then superseded the old, high-wheel variety. For Berenice also was a music-rack full of classic
                        music and song collections, a piano, a shelf of favorite books, painting materials, various
                        athletic implements, and several types of Greek dancing-tunics which she had designed herself,
                        including sandals and fillet for her hair. She was an idle, reflective, erotic person dreaming
                        strange dreams of a near and yet far-off social supremacy, at other times busying herself with
                        such social opportunities as came to her. A more safely calculating and yet wilful girl than
                        Berenice Fleming would have been hard to find. By some trick of mental adjustment she had gained
                        a clear prevision of how necessary it was to select 
                        the right socially, and to conceal her true motives and feelings: and yet she was by no means a
                        snob, mentally, nor utterly calculating. Certain things in her own and in her mother's
                        life troubled herquarrels in her early days, from her seventh to her eleventh year, between her
                        mother and her stepfather, Mr. Carter; the latter's drunkenness verging upon delirium
                        tremens at times; movings from one place to anotherall sorts of sordid and depressing
                        happenings. Berenice had been an impressionable child. Some things had gripped her memory
                        mightilyonce, for instance, when she had seen her stepfather, in the presence of her governess,
                        kick a table over, and, seizing the toppling lamp with demoniac skill, hurl it through a window.
                        She, herself, had been tossed by him in one of these tantrums, when, in answer to the cries of
                        terror or those about her, he had shouted: "Let her fall! It won't hurt the
                        little devil to break a few bones." This was her keenest memory of her stepfather, and
                        it rather softened her judgment of her mother, made her sympathetic with her when she was
                        inclined to be critical. Of her own father she only knew that he had divorced her motherwhy, she
                        could not say. She liked her mother on many counts, though she could not feel that she actually
                        loved herMrs. Carter was too fatuous at times, and at other times too restrained This house at
                        Pocono, or Forest Edge, as Mrs Carter had named it, was conducted after a peculiar fashion. From
                        June to October only it was open, Mrs. Carter, in the past, having returned to Louisville at
                        that time, while Berenice and Rolfe went back to their respective schools. Rolfe was a cheerful,
                        pleasant-mannered youth, well bred, genial, and courteous, but not very brilliant
                        intellectually. Cowperwood's judgment of him the first time he saw him good
                        confidential clerk, possibly in a bank. Berenice, on the other hand, the child of the first
                        husband, was a creature of an exotic mind and an opalescent heart. After his first contact with
                        her in the reception-room of the Brewster School Cowperwood was deeply conscious of the import
                        of this budding character. He was by now so familiar with types and kinds of women that an
                        exceptional typequite like an exceptional horse to a judge of horse-fleshstood  out in his mind with singular vividness. Quite as in
                        some great racing-stable an ambitious horseman might imagine that he detected in some likely
                        filly the signs and lineaments of the future winner of a Derby, so in Berenice Fleming, in the
                        quiet precincts of the Brewster School, Cowperwood previsioned the central figure of a Newport
                        lawn f$eCte or a London drawing-room. Why? She had the air, the grace, the lineage, the
                        bloodthat was why; and on that score she appealed to him intensely, quite as no other woman
                        be-fore had ever done.
                    It was on the lawn of Forest Edge that Cowperwood now saw Berenice. The latter had
                        had the gardener set up a tall pole, to which was attached a tennis-ball by a cord, and she and
                        Rolfe were hard at work on a game of tether-ball. Cowperwood, after a telegram to Mrs. Carter,
                        had been met at the station in Pocono by her and rapidly driven out to the house. The green
                        hills pleased him, the up-winding, yellow road, the silver-gray cottage with the brown-shingle
                        roof in the distance. It was three in the afternoon, and bright for a sinking sun.
                    "There they are now," observed Mrs. Carter, cheerful and smiling,
                        as they came out from under a low ledge that skirted the road a little way from the cottage.
                        Berenice, executing a tripping, running step to one side, was striking the tethered ball with
                        her racquet. "They are hard at it, as usual. Two such romps!"
                    She surveyed them with pleased motherly interest, which Cowperwood considered did her
                        much credit. He was thinking that it would be too bad if her hopes for her children should not
                        be realized. Yet possibly they might not be. Life was very grim. How strange, he thought, was
                        this type of womanat once a sympathetic, affectionate mother and a panderer to the vices of men.
                        How strange that she should have these children at all.
                    Berenice had on a white skirt, white tennis-shoes, a palecream silk waist or blouse,
                        which fitted her very loosely. Because of exercise her color was highquite pinkand her dusty,
                        reddish hair was blowy. Though they turned into the hedge gate and drove to the west entrance,
                        which was at one side of the house, there was no cessation, of the game, not even a glance from
                        Berenice, so busy was she.
                    
                    He was merely her mother's friend to her. Cowperwood noted, with singular
                        vividness of feeling, that the lines of her movementsthe fleeting, momentary positions she
                        assumedwere' full of a wondrous natural charm. He wanted to say so to Mrs. Carter, but
                        restrained himself.
                    "It's a brisk game," he commented, with a pleased glance.
                        "You play, do you?"
                    "Oh, I did. I don't much any more. Sometimes I try a set with Rolfe
                        or Bevy; but they both beat me so badly."
                    "Bevy? Who is Bevy?"
                    "Oh, that's short of Berenice. It's what Rolfe called her
                        when he was a baby."
                    "Bevy! I think that rather nice."
                    "I always like it, too. Somehow it seems to suit her, and yet I
                        don't know why."
                    Before dinner Berenice made her appearance, freshened by a bath and clad in a light
                        summer dress that appeared to Cowperwood to be all flounces, and the more graceful in and hands,
                        howevera face thin, long, and sweetly hollow, and hands that were slim and sinewygripped and
                        held his fancy. He was reminded in the least degree of Stephanie; but this girl's chin
                        was firmer and more delicately, though and less evasive, though subtle enough.
                    "So I meet you again", he observed, with a somewhat aloof air, as
                        she came out on the porch and sank listlessly into a wicker chair. "The last time I met
                        you were hard at work in New York."
                    "Breaking the rules. No, I forget; that was my easiest work. Oh,
                        Rolfe," she called over her shoulder, indifferently, "I see your pocket-knife
                        out on the grass."
                    Cowperwood, properly suppressed, waited a brief space. "Who won that
                        exciting game?"
                    "I did, of course. I always win at tether-ball."
                    "Oh, do you?" commented Cowperwood.
                    "I mean with brother, of course. He plays so poorly." She turned to
                        the westthe house faced southand studied the road which came up from Stroudsburg. "I do
                        believe that's Harry Kemp," she added, quite to herself. "If so,
                        he'll have my mail, if there is any."
                    
                    She got up again and disappeared into the house, coming out a few moments later to
                        saunter down to the gate, which was over a hundred feet away. To Cowperwood she seemed to float,
                        so hale and graceful was she. A smart youth in blue serge coat, white trousers, and white shoes
                        drove by in a high-seated trap.
                    "Two letters for you," he called, in a high, almost falsetto voice.
                        "I thought you would have eight or nine. Blessed hot, isn't it?" He
                        had a smart though somewhat down as an ass. Berenice took the mail with an engaging smile. She
                        sauntered past him reading, without so much as a glance. Presently he heard her voice within.
                    "Mother, the Haggertys have invited me for the last week in August. I have
                        half a mind to cut Tuxedo and go. I like Bess Haggerty."
                    "Well, you'll have to decide that, dearest. Are they going to be at
                        Tarrytown or Loon Lake?"
                    "Loon Lake of course," came Berenice's voice.
                    What a world of social doings she was involved in, thought Cowperwood. She had begun
                        well. The Hag-Hams Haggerty, to whose family she was probably referring, was worth at least six
                        or eight million. The social world they moved in was high.
                    They drove after dinner to The Saddler, at Saddler's Run, where a dance and
                        "moonlight promenade" was to be given. On the way over, owing to the
                        remoteness of Berenice, Cowperwood for the first time in his life felt himself to be getting
                        old. In spite of the vigor of his mind and body, he realized constantly that he was over
                        fifty-two, while she was only seventeen. Why should this lure of youth continue to possess him?
                        She wore a white concoction of lace and silk which showed a pair of smooth young shoulders and a
                        slender, queenly, inimitably modeled neck. He could tell by the sleek lines of her arms how
                        strong she was.
                    "It is perhaps too late," he said to himself, in comment.
                        "I am getting old."
                    The freshness of the hills in the pale night was sad.
                    
                    Saddler's, when they reached there after ten, was crowded with the youth and
                        beauty of the vicinity. Mrs. Carter, who was prepossessing in a ball costume of silver and old
                        rose, expected that Cowperwood would dance with her. And he did, but all the time his eyes were
                        on Berenice, who was caught up by one youth and another of dapper mien during the progress of
                        the evening and carried rhythmically by in the mazes of the waltz or schottische. There was a
                        new dances in vogue that involved a gay running stepkicking first one foot and then the other
                        forward, turning and running backward and kicking again, and then swinging with a smart air back
                        to back with one's partner. Berenice, in her lithe, rhythmic way, seemed to him the
                        soul of spirited and gracious easeunconscious of everybody and everything save the spirit of the
                        dance itself as a medium of sweet emotion, of some far-off, dreamlike spirit of gaiety. He
                        wondered. He was deeply impressed.
                    "Berenice," observed Mrs. Carter, when in an intermission she came
                        forward to where Cowperwood and she were sitting in the moonlight discussing New York and
                        Kentucky social life, "haven't you saved one dance for Mr.
                        Cowperwood?"
                    Cowperwood, with a momentary feeling of resentment, protested that he did not care to
                        dance any more. Mrs. Carter, he observed to himself, was a fool.
                    "I believe," said her daughter, with a languid air, "that
                        I am full up. I could break one engagement, though, somewhere."
                    "Not for me, though, please," pleaded Cowperwood. I don't
                        care to dance any more, thank you."
                    He almost hated her at the moment for a chilly cat. And yet he did not.
                    "Why, Bevy, how you talk! I think you are acting very badly this
                        evening."
                    "Please, please," pleaded Cowperwood, quite sharply. "Not
                        any more. I don t care to dance any more."
                    Bevy looked at him oddly for a momenta single thoughtful glance.
                    "But I have a dance though," she pleaded, softly. "I was
                        just teasing. Won't you dance it with me?"
                    
                    "I can't refuse, of course," replied Cowperwood, coldly.
                    "It's the next one," she replied.
                    They danced, but he scarcely softened to her at first, so angry was he. Somehow,
                        because of all that had gone before, he felt stiff and ungainly. She had managed to break in
                        upon his natural savoir fairethis chit of a girl. But as they
                        went on through a second half the spirit of her dancing soul caught him, and he felt more at
                        ease, quite rhythmic. She drew close and swept him into a strange unison with herself.
                    "You dance beautifully," he said.
                    "I love it," she replied. She was already of an agreeable height
                        for him.
                    It was soon over. "I wish you would take me where the ices are,"
                        she said to Cowperwood.
                    He led her, half amused, half disturbed at her attitude toward him.
                    "You are having a pleasant time teasing me, aren't you?"
                        he asked.
                    "I am only tired," she replied. "The evening bores me.
                        Really it does. I wish we were all home."
                    "We can go when you say, no doubt."
                    As they reached the ices, and she took one from his hand, she surveyed him with those
                        cool, dull blue eyes of herseyes that had the flat quality of unglazed Dutch tiles.
                    I wish you would forgive me, she said. I was rude. I couldn't help it. I am
                        all out of sorts with myself."
                    "I hadn't felt you were rude," he observed, lying grandly,
                        his mood toward her changing entirely.
                    "Oh yes I was, and I hope you will forgive me. I sincerely wish you
                        would."
                    "I do with all my heartthe little that there is to forgive."
                    He waited to take her back, and yielded her to a youth who was waiting. He watched
                        her trip away in a dance, and eventually led her mother to the trap. Berenice was not with them
                        on the home drive; some one else was bringing her. Cowperwood wondered when she would come, and
                        where was her room, and whether she was really sorry, andAs he fell asleep Berenice Fleming and
                        her slate-blue eyes were filling his mind completely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIII
                    THE PLANET MARS
                    THE banking hostility to Cowperwood, which in its beginning had made necessary his
                        trip to Kentucky and elsewhere, finally reached a climax. It followed an attempt on his part to
                        furnish funds for the building of elevated roads. The hour for this new form of transit
                        convenience had struck. The public demanded it. Cowperwood saw one elevated road, the South Side
                        Alley Line, being built, and another, the West Side Metropolitan Line, being proposed, largely,
                        as he knew, in order to create sentiment for the idea, and so to make his opposition to a
                        general franchise difficult. He was well aware that if he did not choose to build them others
                        would. It mattered little that electricity had arrived finally as a perfected traction factor,
                        and that all his lines would soon have to be done over to meet that condition, or that it was
                        costing him thousands and thousands to stay the threatening aspect of things politically. In
                        addition he must now plunge into this new realm, gaining franchises by the roughest and subtlest
                        forms of political bribery. The most serious aspect of this was not political, but rather
                        financial. Elevated roads in Chicago, owing to the sparseness of the population over large
                        areas, were a serious thing to contemplate. The mere cost of iron, right of way, rolling-stock,
                        and power-plants was immense. Being chronically opposed to investing his private funds where
                        stocks could just as will be unloaded on the public, and the management and control retained by
                        him, Cowperwood, for the time being, was puzzled as to where he should get credit for the
                        millions to be laid down in structural steel, engineering fees, labor, and equipment before ever
                        a dollar could be taken out in passenger fares. Owing to the advent of the World's
                        Fair, the South Side "L"to  which,
                        in order to have peace and quiet, he had finally conceded a franchisewas doing reasonably well.
                        Yet it was not making any such return on the investment as the New York roads. The new lines
                        which he was preparing would traverse even less populous sections of the city, and would in all
                        likelihood yield even a smaller return. Money had to be forthcomingsomething between twelve and
                        fifteen million dollarsand this on the stocks and bonds of a purely paper corporation which
                        might not yield paying dividends for years to come. Addison, finding that the Chicago Trust
                        Company was already heavily loaded, called upon various minor but prosperous local banks to take
                        over the new securities (each in part, of course). He was astonished and chagrined to find that
                        one and all uniformly refused.
                    "I'll tell you how it is, Judah," one bank president
                        confided to him, in great secrecy. "We owe Timothy Arneel at least three hundred
                        thousand dollars that we only have to pay three per cent. for. It's a call-loan.
                        Besides, the Lake National is our main standby when it comes to quick trades, and he's
                        in on that. I understand from one or two friends that he's at outs with Cowperwood, and
                        we can't afford to offend him. I'd like to, but no more for me not at present,
                        anyhow."
                    "Why, Simmons," replied Addison, "these fellows are simply
                        cutting off their noses to spite their faces. These stock and bond issues are perfectly good
                        investments, and no one knows it better than you do. All this hue and cry in the newspapers
                        against Cowperwood doesn't amount to anything. He's perfectly solvent. Chicago
                        is growing. His lines are becoming more valuable every year."
                    "I know that," replied Simmons. "But what about this talk
                        of a rival elevated system? Won't that injure his lines for the time being, anyhow, if
                        it comes into the field?"
                    "If I know anything about Cowperwood," replied Addison, simply,
                        "there isn't going to be any rival elevated road. It's true they got
                        the city council to give them a franchise for one line on the South Side; but that's
                        out of his territory, anyhow, and that other one to the Chicago General Company doesn't
                        amount to anything. It will be years and years before it can be made to pay a dollar,  and when the time comes he will probably take it
                        over if he wants it. Another election will be held in two years, and then the city
                        administration may not be so unfavorable. As it is, they haven't been able to hurt him
                        through the council as much as they thought they would."
                    "Yes; but he lost the election."
                    "True; but it doesn't follow he's going to lose the next
                        one or every one."
                    "Just the same," replied Simmons, very secretively, "I
                        understand there's a concerted effort on to drive him out. Schryhart, Hand, Merrill,
                        Arneelthey're the most powerful men we have. I understand Hand says that he'll
                        never get his franchises renewed except on terms that 'll make his lines unprofitable.
                        There's going to be an awful smash here one of these days if that's
                        true." Mr. Simmons looked very wise and solemn.
                    "Never believe it," replied Addison, contemptuously.
                    "Hand isn't Chicago, neither is Schryhart, nor Arneel. Cowperwood
                        is a brainy man. He isn't going to be put under so easily. Did you ever hear what was
                        the real bottom cause of all this disturbance?"
                    "Yes, I've heard," replied Simmons.
                    "Do you believe it?"
                    "Oh, I don't know. Yes, I suppose I do. Still, I don't
                        know that that need have anything to do with it. Money envy is enough to make any man right.
                        This man Hand is very powerful."
                    Not long after this Cowperwood, strolling into the president's office of the
                        Chicago Trust Company, inquired: "Well, Judah, how about those Northwestern
                        'L' bonds?"
                    "It's just as I thought, Frank," replied Addison, softly.
                        "We'll have to go outside of Chicago for that money. Hand, Arneel, and the
                        rest of that crowd have decided to combine against us. That's plain. Something has
                        started them off in full cry. I suppose my resignation may have had something to do with it.
                        Anyhow, every one of the banks in which they have any hand has uniformly refused to come in. To
                        make sure that I was right I even called up the little old Third National of Lake View and the
                        Drovers and Traders on Forty-seventh Street. That's Charlie Wallin's bank.
                        When I was over in the Lake  National he used to hang
                        around the back door asking for anything I could give him that was sound. Now he says his orders
                        are from his directors not to share in anything we have to offer. It's the same story
                        everywherethey daren't. I asked Wallin if he knew why the directors were down on the
                        Chicago Trust or on you, and at first he said he didn't. Then he said he'd
                        stop in and lunch with me some day. They're the silliest lot of ostriches I ever heard
                        of. As if refusing to let us have money on any loan here was going to prevent us from getting
                        it! They can take their little old one-horse banks and play blockhouses with them if they want
                        to. I can go to New York and in thirty-six hours raise twenty million dollars if we need
                        it."
                    Addison was a little warm. It was a new experience for him. Cowperwood merely curled
                        his mustaches and smiled sardonically.
                    "Well, never mind," he said. "Will you go down to New
                        York, or shall I?"
                    It was decided, after some talk, that Addison should go. When he reached New York he
                        found, to his surprise, that the local opposition to Cowperwood had, for some mysterious reason,
                        begun to take root in the East.
                    "I'll tell'you how it is," observed Joseph
                        Haeckelheimer, to whom Addison applied a short, smug, pussy person who was the head of
                        Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb & Co., international bankers. "We hear odd things
                        concerning Mr. Cowperwood out in Chicago. Some people say he is soundsome not. He has some very
                        good franchises covering a large portion of the city, but they are only twenty-year franchises,
                        and they will all run out by 1903 at the latest. As I understand it, he has managed to stir up
                        all the local elementssome very powerful ones, tooand he is certain to have a hard time to get
                        his franchises renewed. I don't live in Chicago, of course. I don t know much about it,
                        but our western correspondent tells me this is so. Mr Cowperwood is a very able man, as I
                        understand it, but if all these influential men are opposed to him they can make him a great
                        deal of trouble. The public is very easily aroused."
                    "You do a very able man a great injustice, Mr. Haeckelheimer,"
                        Addison retorted. "Almost any one who starts  out to do things successfully and intelligently is sure to stir up a great deal of feeling.
                        The particular men you mention seem to feel that they have a sort of proprietor ' s
                        interest in Chicago. They really think they own it. As a matter of fact, the city made them;
                        they didn't ' t make the city."
                    Mr. Haeckelheimer lifted his eyebrows. He laid two fine white hands, plump and
                        stubby, over the lower buttons of his protuberant waistcoat. "Public favor is a great
                        factor in all these enterprises," he almost sighed. "As you know, part of a
                        man ' s resources lies in his ability to avoid stirring up opposition. It may be that
                        Mr. Cowperwood is strong enough to overcome all that. I don ' t know. I ' ve
                        never met him. I ' m just telling you what I hear."
                    This offish attitude on the part of Mr. Haeckelheimer wealthy. The firm of
                        Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb & Co. represented a controlling interest in some of the principal
                        railways and banks in America Their favor was not to be held in light esteem.
                    It was plain that these rumors against Cowperwood in New York, unless offset promptly
                        by favorable events in Chicago, might meanin the large banking quarters, anyhowthe refusal of
                        all subsequent Cowperwood issues. It might even close the doors of minor banks and make private
                        investors nervous.
                    Addison's report of all this annoyed Cowperwood no little. It made him
                        angry. He saw in it the work of Schryhart, Hand, and others who were trying their best to
                        discredit him. "Let them talk," he declared, crossly. "I have the
                        street-railways. They ' re not going to rout me out of here. I can sell stocks and
                        bonds to the public direct if need be! There are plenty of private people who are glad to invest
                        in these properties."
                    At this psychological moment enter, as by the hand of Fate, the planet Mars and the
                        University. This latter, from having been for years a humble Baptist college of the cheapest
                        character, had suddenly, through the beneficence of a great Standard Oil multimillionaire,
                        flared throughout the length and breadth of the educational world.
                    
                    It was already a most noteworthy spectacle, one of the sights of the city. Millions
                        were being poured into it; new and beautiful buildings were almost monthly erected. A brilliant,
                        dynamic man had been called from the East as president. There were still many things
                        neededdormitories, laboratories of one kind and another, a great library; and, last but not
                        least, a giant telescopeone that would sweep the heavens with a hitherto unparalleled receptive
                        eye, and wring from it secrets not previously decipherable by the eye and the mind of man.
                    Cowperwood had always been interested in the heavens and in the giant mathematical
                        and physical methods of interpreting them. It so happened that the war-like planet, with its
                        sinister aspect, was just at this time to be seen hanging in the west, a fiery red; and the
                        easily aroused public mind was being stirred to its shallow depth by reflections and
                        speculations regarding the famous canals of the luminary. The mere thought of the possibility of
                        a larger telescope than any now in existence, which might throw additional light on this evasive
                        mystery, was exciting not only Chicago, but the whole world. Late one after-noon Cowperwood,
                        looking over some open fields which faced his new power-house in West Madison Street, observed
                        the planet hanging low and lucent in the evening sky, a warm, radiant bit of orange in a sea of
                        silver. He paused and surveyed it. Was it true that there were canals on it, and people? Life
                        was surely strange.
                    One day not long after this Alexander Rambaud called him up on the phone and
                        remarked, jocosely:
                    "I say, Cowperwood, I've played a rather shabby trick on you just
                        now. Doctor Hooper, of the University, was in here a few minutes ago asking me to be one of ten
                        to guarantee the cost of a telescope lens that he thinks he needs to run that one-horse school
                        of his out there. I told him I thought you might possibly be interested. His idea is to find
                        some one who will guarantee forty thousand dollars, or eight or ten men who will guarantee four
                        or five thousand each. I thought of you, because I ' ve heard you discuss astronomy
                        from time to time.
                    "Let him come, replied Cowperwood, who was never willing to be behind others
                        in generosity, particularly where  his efforts were
                        likely to be appreciated in significant quarters.
                    Shortly afterward appeared the doctor himselfshort, rotund, rubicund, displaying
                        behind a pair of clear, thick, gold-rimmed glasses, round, dancing, incisive eyes, imaginative
                        grip, buoyant, self-delusive self-respect were written all over him. The two men eyed each
                        otherone with that broad-gage examination which sees even universities as futile in the endless
                        shift of things; the other with that faith in the balance for right which makes even great
                        personal forces, such as financial magnates, serve an idealistic end.
                    "It's not a very long story I have to tell you, Mr.
                        Cowperwood," said the doctor. "Our astronomical work is handicapped just now
                        by the simple fact that we have no lens at all, no telescope worthy of the name. I should like
                        to see the University do original work in this field, and do it in a great way. The only way to
                        do it, in my judgment, is to do it better than any one else can. Don't you agree with
                        me?" He showed a row of shining white teeth.
                    Cowperwood smiled urbanely.
                    "Will a forty-thousand-dollar lens be a better lens than any other
                        lens?" he inquired.
                    "Made by Appleman Brothers, of Dorchester, it will," replied the
                        college president. "The whole story is here, Mr. Cowperwood. These men are practical
                        lens-makers. A great lens, in the first place, is a matter of finding a suitable crystal. Large
                        and flawless crystals are not common, as you may possibly know. Such a crystal has recently been
                        found, and is now owned by Mr. Appleman. It takes about four or five years to grind and polish
                        it. Most of the polishing, as you may or may not know, is done by the handsmoothing it with the
                        thumb and forefinger. The time, judgment, and skill of an optical expert is required. To-day,
                        unfortunately, that is not cheap. The laborer is worthy of his hire, however, I
                        suppose" he waved a soft, full, white hand "and forty thousand is little
                        enough. It would be a great honor if the University could have the largest, most serviceable,
                        and most perfect lens in the world. It would reflect great credit, I take it, on the men who
                        would make this possible."
                    
                    Cowperwood liked the man's artistically educational air; obviously here was
                        a personage of ability, brains, emotion, and scientific enthusiasm. It was splendid to him to
                        see any strong man in earnest, for himself or others.
                    "Any forty thousand will do this?" he asked.
                    "Yes, sir. Forty thousand will guarantee us the lens, anyhow."
                    "And how about land, buildings, a telescope frame? Have you all those things
                        prepared for it?"
                    "Not as yet, but, since it takes four years at least to grind the lens,
                        there will be time enough, when the lens is nearing completion, to look after the accessories.
                        We have picked our site, howeverLake Genevaand we would not refuse either land or accessories if
                        we knew where to get them."
                    Again the even, shining teeth, the keen eyes boring through the glasses.
                    Cowperwood saw a great opportunity. He asked what would be the cost of the entire
                        project. Dr. Hooper presumed that three hundred thousand would do it all handsomelylens,
                        telescope, land, machinery, buildinga great monument.
                    "And how much have you guaranteed on the cost of your lens?"
                    "Sixteen thousand dollars, so far."
                    "To be paid when?"
                    "In instalmentsten thousand a year for four years Just enough to keep the
                        lens-maker busy for the present."
                    Cowperwood reflected. Ten thousand a year for four years would be a mere salary item,
                        and at the end of that time he felt sure that he could supply the remainder of the money quite
                        easily. He would be so much richer; his plans would be so much more mature. On such a repute
                        (the ability to give a three-hundred-thousand-dollar telescope out of hand to be known as the
                        Cowperwood telescope) he could undoubtedly raise money in London, New York, and elsewhere for
                        his Chicago enterprise. The whole world would know him in a day. He paused, his enigmatic eyes
                        revealing nothing of the splendid vision that danced before them. At last! At last!
                    "How would it do, Mr. Hooper," he said, sweetly, "if,
                        instead  of ten men giving you four thousand each, as
                        you plan, one man were to give you forty thousand in annual instalments of ten thousand each?
                        Could that be arranged as well?"
                    "My dear Mr. Cowperwood," exclaimed the doctor, glowing, his eyes
                        alight, "do I understand that you personally might wish to give the money for this
                        lens?"
                    "I might, yes. But I should have to exact one pledge, Mr. Hooper, if I did
                        any such thing."
                    "And what would that be?"
                    "The privilege of giving the land and the buildingthe whole telescope, in
                        fact. I presume no word of this will be given out unless the matter is favorably acted
                        upon?" he added, cautiously and diplomatically.
                    The new president of the university arose and eyed him with a peculiarly approbative
                        and grateful gaze. He was a busy, overworked man. His task was large. Any bur-den taken from his
                        shoulders in this fashion was a great relief.
                    "My answer to that, Mr. Cowperwood, if I had the authority, would be to
                        agree now in the name of the University, and thank you. For form's sake, I must submit
                        the matter to the trustees of the University, but I have no doubt as to the outcome. I
                        anticipate nothing but grateful approbation. Let me thank you again."
                    They shook hands warmly, and the solid collegian bustled forth. Cowperwood sank
                        quietly in his chair. He pressed his fingers together, and for a moment or two permitted himself
                        to dream. Then he called a stenographer and began a bit of dictation. He did not care to think
                        even to himself how universally advantageous all this might yet prove to be.
                    The result was that in the course of a few weeks the proffer was formally accepted by
                        the trustees of the University, and a report of the matter, with Cowperwood's formal
                        consent, was given out for publication. The fortuitous combination of circumstances already
                        described gave the matter a unique news value. Giant reflectors and refractors had been given
                        and were in use in other parts of the world, but none so large or so important as this. The gift
                        was  sufficient to set Cowperwood forth in the
                        light of a public benefactor and patron of science. Not only in Chicago, but in London, Paris,
                        and New York, wherever, indeed, in the great capitals scientific and intellectual men were
                        gathered, this significant gift of an apparently fabulously rich American became the subject of
                        excited discussion. Banking men, among others, took sharp note or the donor, and when
                        Cowperwood's emissaries came around later with a suggestion that the fifty-year
                        franchises about to be voted him for elevated roads should be made a basis of bond and mortgage
                        loans, they were courteously received. A man who could give three-hundred-thousand-dollar
                        telescopes in the hour of his greatest difficulties must be in a rather satisfactory financial
                        condition. He must have great wealth in reserve. After some preliminaries, during which
                        Cowperwood paid a flying visit to Threadneedle Street in London, and to Wall Street in New York,
                        an arrangement was made with an English-American banking company by which the majority of the
                        bonds for his proposed roads were taken over by them for sale in Europe and elsewhere, and he
                        was given ample means wherewith to proceed. Instantly the stocks of his surface lines bounded in
                        price, and those who had been scheming to bring about Cowperwood's downfall gnashed
                        impotent teeth. Even Haeckelheimer & Co. were interested.
                    Anson Merrill, who had only a few weeks before given a large field for athletic
                        purposes to the University, pulled a wry face over this sudden eclipse of his glory. Hosmer
                        Hand, who had given a chemical laboratory, and Schryhart, who had presented a dormitory, were
                        depressed to think that a benefaction less costly than theirs should create, because of the
                        distinction of the idea, so much more notable comment. It was merely another example of the
                        brilliant fortune which seemed to pursue the man, the star that set all their plans at
                    defiance.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIV
                    A FRANCHISE OBTAINED
                    THE money requisite for the construction of elevated roads having been thus
                        pyrotechnically obtained, the acquisition of franchises remained no easy matter. It involved,
                        among other problems, the taming of Chaffee Thayer Sluss, who, quite unconscious of the evidence
                        stored up against him, had begun to fulminate the moment it was suggested in various secret
                        political quarters that a new ordinance was about to be introduced, and that Cowperwood was to
                        be the beneficiary. "Don't you let them do that, Mr. Sluss," observed
                        Mr. Hand, who for purposes of conference had courteously but firmly bidden his hireling, the
                        mayor, to lunch. "Don't you let them pass that if you can help it."
                        (As chairman or president of the city council Mr. Sluss held considerable manipulative power
                        over the machinery of procedure.) "Raise such a row that they won' try to pass
                        it over your head. Your political future really depends on ityour standing with the people of
                        Chicago. The newspapers and the respectable financial and social elements will fully support you
                        in this. Otherwise they will wholly desert you. Things have come to a handsome pass when men and
                        sworn and elected to perform given services turn on their backers and betray them in this
                        way!"
                    Mr. Hand was very wroth.
                    Mr. Sluss, immaculate in black broadcloth and white linen, was very sure that he
                        would fulfil to the letter all of Mr. Hand' suggestions. The proposed ordinance should
                        be denounced by him; its legislative progress heartily opposed in council.
                    "They shall get no quarter from me!" he declared, emphatically.
                        "I know what the scheme is. They know that I know it."
                    
                    He looked at Mr. Hand quite as one advocate of righteousness should look at another,
                        and the rich promoter went away satisfied that the reins of government were in safe hands.
                        Immediately afterward Mr. Sluss gave out an interview in which he served warning on all aldermen
                        and councilmen that no such ordinance as the one in question would ever be signed by him as
                        mayor.
                    At half past ten on the same morning on which the interview appearedthe hour at which
                        Mr. Sluss usually reached his officehis private telephone bell rang, and an assistant inquired
                        if he would be willing to speak with Mr. Frank A. Cowperwood. Mr. Sluss, somehow anticipating
                        fresh laurels of victory, gratified by the front-page display given his announcement in the
                        morning papers, and swelling internally with civic pride, announced, solemnly: "Yes;
                        connect me."
                    "Mr. Sluss," began Cowperwood, at the other end, "this is
                        Frank A. Cowperwood."
                    "Yes. What can I do for you, Mr. Cowperwood?"
                    "I see by the morning papers that you state that you will have nothing to do
                        with any proposed ordinance which looks to giving me a franchise for any elevated road on the
                        North or West Side?"
                    "That is quite true," replied Mr. Sluss, loftily. "I will
                        not."
                    "Don't you think it is rather premature, Mr. Sluss, to denounce
                        something which has only a rumored existence?" (Cowperwood, smiling sweetly to himself,
                        was quite like a cat playing with an unsuspicious mouse.) "I should like very much to
                        talk this whole matter over with you personally before you take an irrevocable attitude. It is
                        just possible that after you have heard my side you may not be so completely opposed to me. From
                        time to time I have sent to you several of my personal friends, but apparently you do not care
                        to receive them."
                    "Quite true," replied Mr. Sluss, loftily; "but you must
                        remember that I am a very busy man, Mr. Cowperwood, and, besides, I do not see how I can serve
                        any of your purposes. You are working for a set of conditions to which I am morally and
                        temperamentally opposed. I am working for another. I do not see that we have any common  ground on which to meet. In fact, I do not see how I
                        can be of any service to you whatsoever."
                    "Just a moment, please, Mr. Mayor," replied Cowperwood, still very
                        sweetly, and fearing that Sluss might choose to hang up the receiver, so superior was his tone.
                        "There may be some common ground of which you do not know. Wouldn't you like
                        to come to lunch at my residence or receive me at yours? Or let me come to your office and talk
                        this matter over. I believe you will find it the part of wisdom as well as of courtesy to do
                        this."
                    "I cannot possibly lunch with you to-day," replied Sluss,
                        "and I cannot see you, either. There are a number of things pressing for my attention.
                        I must say also that cannot hold any back-room conferences with you or your emissaries. If you
                        come you must submit to the presence of others."
                    "Very well, Mr. Sluss," replied Cowperwood, cheerfull "I
                        will not come to you office. But unless you come to mine before five oclock this afternoon you
                        will face by noon to-morrow a suit for breach of promise, and your letters to Mrs. Brandon will
                        be given to the public. I wish to remind you that an election is coming on, and that Chicago
                        favors a mayor who is privately moral as well as publicly so. God morning."
                    Mr. Cowperwood hung up his telephone receiver with a click, and Mr. Sluss sensibly
                        and visibly stiffened and paled. Mrs. Brandon! The charming, lovable, discreet Mrs. Brandon who
                        had so ungenerously left him! Why should she be thinking of suing him for breach of promise, and
                        how did his letter to her come to be in Cowperwood's hands? Good heavensthose mushy
                        letters! His wife! His children! His church and the owlish pastor thereof! Chicago! And its
                        conventional, moral, religious atmosphere! Come to think of it, Mrs. Brandon had scarcely if
                        ever written him a note of any kind. He did not even know her history.
                    At the thought of Mrs. Slussher hard, cold, blue eyesMr. Sluss arose, tall and
                        distrait, and ran his hand through his hair. He walked to the window, snapping his thumb and
                        middle finger and looking eagerly at the floor. He thought of the telephone switchboard just
                        outside his  private office, and wondered whether his
                        secretary, a handsome young Presbyterian girl, had been listening, as usual. Oh, this sad, sad
                        world! If the North Side ever learned of thisHand, the newspapers, young MacDonaldwould they
                        protect him? They would not. Would they run him for mayor again? Never! Could the public be
                        induced to vote for him with all the churches fulminating against private immorality,
                        hypocrites, and whited sepulchers? Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord! And he was so very, very much respected
                        and looked up tothat was the worst of it all. This terrible demon Cowperwood had descended on
                        him, and he had thought himself so secure. He had not even been civil to Cowperwood. What if the
                        latter chose to avenge the discourtesy?
                    Mr. Sluss went back to his chair, but he could not sit in it. He went for his coat,
                        took it down, hung it up again, took it down, announced over the 'phone that he could
                        not see any one for several hours, and went out by a private door. Wearily he walked along North
                        Clark Street, looking at the hurly-burly of traffic, looking at the dirty, crowded river,
                        looking at the sky and smoke and gray buildings, and wondering what he should do. The world was
                        so hard at times; it was so cruel. His wife, his family, his ordinances for Mr. Cowperwoodthat
                        would be immoral, dishonest, a scandal to the city. Mr. Cowperwood was a notorious traitor to
                        the public welfare. At the same "time he could not very well refuse, for here was Mrs.
                        Brandon, the charming and unscrupulous creature, playing into the hands of Cowperwood. If he
                        could only meet her, beg of her, plead; but where was she? He had not seen her for months and
                        months. Could he go to Hand and confess all? But Hand was a hard, cold, moral man also. Oh,
                        Lord! Oh, Lord! He wondered and thought, and sighed and ponderedall without avail.
                    Pity the poor earthling caught in the toils of the moral law. In another country,
                        perhaps, in another day, another age, such a situation would have been capable of a solution,
                        one not utterly destructive to Mr. Sluss, and not entirely favorable to a man like Cowperwood.
                        But here in the United States, here in Chicago, the ethical verities would all,  as he knew, be lined up against him. What Lake View
                        would think, what his pastor would think, what Hand and all his moral associates would thinkah,
                        these were the terrible, the incontrovertible consequences of his lapse from virtue.
                    At four o'clock, after Mr. Sluss had wandered for hours in the snow and
                        cold, belaboring himself for a fool and a knave, and while Cowperwood was sitting at his desk
                        signing papers, contemplating a glowing fire and wondering whether the mayor would deem it
                        advisable to put in an appearance, his office door opened and one of his trim stenographers
                        entered announcing Mr. Chaffee Thayer Sluss. Enter Mayor Sluss, sad, heavy, subdued, shrunken, a
                        very different gentleman from the one who had talked so cavalierly over the wires some five and
                        a half hours before. Gray weather, severe cold, and much contemplation of seemingly
                        irreconcilable facts had reduced his spirits greatly. He was a little pale and a little
                        restless. Mental distress has a reducing, congealing effect, and Mayor Sluss seemed somewhat
                        less than his usual self in height, weight, and thickness. Cowperwood had seen him more than
                        once on various political platforms, but he had never met him. When the troubled mayor entered
                        he arose courteously and waved him to a chair.
                    "Sit down, Mr. Sluss," he said, genially. "It's a
                        disagreeable day out, isn't it? I suppose you have come in regard to the matter we were
                        discussing this morning?"
                    Nor was this cordiality wholly assumed. One of the primal instincts of
                        Cowperwood's nature for all his chicane and subtletywas to take no rough advantage of a
                        beaten enemy. In the hour of victory he was always courteous, bland, gentle, and even
                        sympathetic; he was so today, and quite honestly, too.
                    Mayor Sluss put down the high sugarloaf hat he wore and said, grandiosely, as was his
                        manner even in the direst extremity: "Well, you see, I am here, Mr. Cowperwood. What is
                        it you wish me to do, exactly?"
                    "Nothing unreasonable, I assure you, Mr. Sluss," replied
                        Cowperwood. "Your manner to me this morning was a little brusque, and, as I have always
                        wanted to have a sensible private talk with you, I took this way of getting it. I should like
                        you to dismiss from your mind at once  the thought
                        that I am going to take an unfair advantage of you in any way. I have no present intention of
                        publishing your correspondence with Mrs. Brandon." (As he said this he took from his
                        drawer a bundle of letters which Mayor Sluss recognized at once as the enthusiastic missives
                        which he had sometime before to the fair Claudia. Mr. Sluss groaned as he beheld this
                        incriminating evidence.) "I am not trying," continued Cowperwood, "to
                        wreck your career, nor to make you do anything which you do not feel that you can
                        conscientiously undertake. The letters that I have here, let me say, have come to me quite by
                        accident. I did not seek them. But, since I do have them, I thought I might as well mention them
                        as a basis for possible talk and compromise between us."
                    Cowperwood did not smile. He merely looked thoughtfully at Sluss; then, by way of
                        testifying to the truthfulness of what he had been saying, thumped the letters up and down, just
                        to show that they were real.
                    "Yes," said Mr. Sluss, heavily, "I see."
                    He studied the bundlea small, solid affairwhile Cowperwood looked discreetly
                        elsewhere. He contemplated his own shoes, the floor. He rubbed his hands and then his knees.
                    Cowperwood saw how completely he had collapsed. It was ridiculous, pitiable.
                    "Come, Mr. Sluss," said Cowperwood, amiably, "cheer up.
                        Things are not nearly as desperate as you think. I give you my word right now that nothing which
                        you yourself, on mature thought, could say was unfair will be done. You are the mayor of
                        Chicago. I am a citizen, I merely wish fair play from you. I merely ask you to give me your word
                        of honor that from now on you will take no part in this fight which is one of pure spite against
                        me. If u cannot conscientiously aid me in what I consider to a perfectly legitimate demand for
                        additional franchises, you will, at least, not go out of your way to publicly attack me. I will
                        put these letters in my safe, and there they will stay until the next campaign is over, when I
                        will take them out and destroy them. I have no personal feeling against younone in the world. I
                        do not ask you to sign any ordinance which the council may pass giving me elevated-mad  rights. What I do wish you to do at this time is
                        to refrain from stirring up public sentiment against me, especially if the council should see
                        fit to pass an ordinance over your veto. Is that satisfactory?"
                    "But my friends? The public? The Republican party? Don't you see it
                        is expected of me that I should wage some form of campaign against you?" queried Sluss,
                        nervously.
                    "No, I don't," replied Cowperwood, succinctly,
                        "and, anyhow, there are ways and ways of waging a public campaign. Go through the
                        motions, if you wish, but don't put too much heart in it. And, anyhow, see some one of
                        my lawyers from time to time when they call on you. Judge Dickensheets is an able and fair man.
                        So is General Van Sickle. Why not confer with them occasionally?not publicly, of course, but in
                        some less conspicuous way. You will find both of them most helpful."
                    Cowperwood smiled encouragingly, quite beneficently, and Chaffee Thayer Sluss, his
                        political hopes gone glimmering, sat and mused for a few moments in a sad and helpless quandary.
                    "Very well," he said," at last, rubbing his hands
                        feverishly. "It is what I might have expected. I should have known. There is no other
                        way, but" Hardly able to repress the hot tears now burning beneath his eyelids, the
                        Hon. Mr. Sluss picked up his hat and left the room. Needless to add that his preachings against
                        Cowperwood were permanently silenced.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLV
                    CHANGING HORIZONS
                    THE effect of all this was to arouse in Cowperwood the keenest feelings of
                        superiority he had ever yet enjoyed. Hitherto he had fancied that his enemies might worst him,
                        but at last his path seemed clear. He was now worth, all in all, the round sum of twenty million
                        dollars. His art-collection had become the most important in the West perhaps in the nation,
                        public collections excluded. He began to envision himself as a national figure, possibly even an
                        International one. And yet he was coming to feel that, no matter how complete his financial
                        victory might ultimately be, the chances were that he and Aileen would never be socially
                        accepted here in Chicago. He had done too many boisterous thingsalienated too many people.
                    He was as determined as ever to retain a firm grip on the Chicago street-railway
                        situation. But he was disturbed for a second time in his life by the thought that owing to the
                        complex ties of his own temperament, he had married unhappily and would find the situation
                        difficult of adjustment. Aileen, whatever might be said of her deficiencies, was by no means as
                        tractable or acquiescent as his first wife. And, besides, he felt that he owed her a better
                        turn. By no means did he actually dislike her as yet; though she was no longer soothing,
                        stimulating, or suggestive to him as she had formerly been. Her woes, because of him, were too
                        many; her attitude toward him too censorious. He was perfectly willing to sympathize with her,
                        to regret his own change of feeling but what would you? He could not control his own temperament
                        any more than Aileen could control hers.
                    The worst of this situation was that it was now becoming complicated on
                        Cowperwood's part with the most disturbing 
                        thoughts concerning Berenice Fleming. Ever since the days when he had first met her mother he
                        had been coming more and more to feel for the young girl a soul-stirring passionand that without
                        a single look exchanged or a single word spoken. There is a static something which is beauty,
                        and this may be clothed in the habiliments of a ragged philosopher or in the silks and satins of
                        pampered coquetry. It was a suggestion of this beauty which is above sex and above age and above
                        wealth that shone in the blowing hair and night-blue eyes of Berenice Fleming. His visit to the
                        Carter family at Pocono had been a disappointment to him because of the apparent hopelessness of
                        arousing Berenice's interest, and since that t me, and during their casual encounters,
                        she had remained politely indifferent. Nevertheless, he remained true to his persistence in the
                        pursuit of any game he had fixed upon. Mrs. Carter, whose relations with Cowperwood had in the
                        past been not wholly platonic, nevertheless attributed much of his interest in her to her
                        children and their vital chance. Berenice and Rolfe themselves knew nothing concerning the
                        nature of their mother's arrangements with Cowperwood. True to his promise of
                        protectorship and assistance, he had established her in a New York apartment adjacent to her
                        daughter's school, and where he fancied that he himself might spend many happy hours
                        were Berenice but near. Proximity to Berenice! The desire to arouse her interest and command her
                        favor! Cowperwood would scarcely have cared to admit to himself how great a part this played in
                        a thought which had recently been creeping into his mind. It was that of erecting a splendid
                        house in New York.
                    By degrees this idea of building a New York house had grown upon him. His Chicago
                        mansion was a costly sepulcher in which Aileen sat brooding over the woes which bad befallen
                        her. Moreover, aside from the social defeat which it represented, it was becoming merely as a
                        structure, hut poorly typical of the splendor and ability of his imaginations. This second
                        dwelling, if he ever achieved it, should be resplendent, a monument to himself. In his
                        speculative wanderings abroad he had seen many such great palaces, designed with the utmost
                        care, which had  housed the taste and culture of
                        generations of men. His art-collection, in which he took an immense pride, had been growing,
                        until it was the basis if not the completed substance for a very splendid memorial. Already in
                        it were gathered paintings of all the important schools; to say nothing of collections of jade,
                        illumined missals, porcelains, rugs, draperies, mirror frames, and a beginning at rare originals
                        of sculpture. The beauty of these strange things, the patient laborings of inspired souls of
                        various times and places, moved him, on occasion, to a gentle awe. Of all individuals he
                        respected, indeed revered, the sincere artist. Existence was a mystery, hut these souls who set
                        themselves to quiet tasks of beauty had caught something of which he was dimly conscious. Life
                        had touched them with a vision, their hearts and souls were attuned to sweet harmonies of which
                        the common world knew nothing. Sometimes, when he was weary after a strenuous day, he would
                        enterlate in the nighthis now silent gallery, and turning on the lights so that the whole sweet
                        room stood revealed, he would seat himself before some treasure, reflecting on the nature, the
                        mood, the time, and the man that had produced it. Sometimes it would be one of
                        Rembrandt's melancholy headsthe sad "Portrait of a Rabbi" or the
                        sweet introspection of a Rousseau stream. A solemn Dutch housewife, rendered with the bold
                        fidelity and resonant enameled surfaces of a Hals or the cold elegance of an Ingres, commanded
                        his utmost enthusiasm. So he would sit and wonder at the vision and skill of the original
                        dreamer, exclaiming at times: "A marvel! A marvel!"
                    At the same time, so far as Aileen was concerned things were obviously shaping up for
                        additional changes. She was in that peculiar state which has befallen many a womantrying to
                        substitute a lesser ideal for a greater, and finding that the effort is useless or nearly so. In
                        regard to her affair with Lynde, aside from the temporary relief and diversion it had afforded
                        her, she was beginning to feel that she had made a serious mistake. Lynde was delightful, after
                        his fashion. He could amuse her with a different type of experience from any that Cowperwood had
                        to relate. Once they were intimate he had, with an easy, genial air, confessed to all  sorts of liaisons in Europe and America. He was
                        utterly pagana faunand at the same time he was truly of the smart world. His open contempt of
                        all but one or two of the people in Chicago whom Aileen had secretly admired and wished to
                        associate with, and his easy references to figures of importance in the East and in Paris and
                        London, raised him amazingly in her estimation; it made her feel, sad to relate, that she had by
                        no means lowered herself in succumbing so readily to his forceful charms.
                    Nevertheless, because he was what he wasgenial, complimentary, affectionate, but a
                        playboy, merely, and a soldier of fortune, with no desire to make over her life for her on any
                        new basisshe was now grieving over the futility of this romance which had got her nowhere, and
                        which, in all probability, had alienated Cowperwood for good. He was still outwardly genial and
                        friendly, but their relationship was now colored by a sense of mistake and uncertainty which
                        existed on both sides, but which, in Aileen's case, amounted to a subtle species of
                        soul-torture. Hitherto she had been the aggrieved one, the one whose loyalty had never been m
                        question, and whose persistent affection and faith had been greatly sinned against. Now all this
                        was changed. The manner in which he had sinned against her was plain enough, but the way in
                        which, out of pique, she had forsaken him was in the other balance. Say what one will, the
                        loyalty of woman, whether a condition in nature or an evolved accident of sociology, persists as
                        a dominating thought in at least a section of the race; and women themselves, be it said, are
                        the ones who most loudly and openly subscribe to it. Cowperwood himself was fully aware that
                        Aileen had deserted him, not because she loved him less or Lynde more, but because she was
                        hurtand deeply so. Aileen knew that he knew this. From one point of view it enraged her and made
                        her defiant; from another it grieved her to think she had uselessly sinned against his faith in
                        her. Now he had ample excuse to do anything he chose. Her best claim on himher woundsshe had
                        thrown away as one throws away a weapon. Her pride would not let her talk to him about this, and
                        at the same time she could not endure the easy, tolerant manner with  which he took it. His smiles, his forgiveness, his sometimes pleasant
                        jesting were all a horrible offense.
                    To complete her mental quandary, she was already beginning to quarrel with Lynde over
                        this matter of her unbreakable regard for Cowperwood. With the sufficiency of a man of the world
                        Lynde intended that she should succumb to him completely and forget her wonderful husband. When
                        with him she was apparently charmed and interested, yielding herself freely, but this was more
                        out of pique at Cowperwood's neglect than from any genuine passion for Lynde. In spite
                        of her pretensions of anger, her sneers, and criticisms whenever Cowperwood's name came
                        up, she was, nevertheless, hopelessly fond of him and identified with him spiritually, and it
                        was not long before Lynde began to suspect this. Such a discovery is a sad one for any master of
                        women to make. It jolted his pride severely.
                    "You care for him still, don't you?" he asked, with a wry
                        smile, upon one occasion. They were sitting at dinner m a private room at Kinsley's,
                        and Aileen, whose color was high, and who was becomingly garbed in metallic-green silk, was
                        looking especially handsome. Lynde had been proposing that she should make special arrangements
                        to depart with him for a three-months' stay in Europe, but she would have nothing to do
                        with the project. She did not dare. Such a move would make Cowperwood feel that she was
                        alienating herself forever; it would give him an excellent excuse to leave her.
                    "Oh, it isn't that," she had declared, in reply to
                        Lynde's query. "I just don't want to go. I can't.
                        I'm not prepared. It's nothing but a notion of yours, anyhow. You're
                        tired of Chicago because it's getting near spring. You go and I'll be here
                        when you come back, or I may decide to come over later." She smiled.
                    Lynde pulled a dark face.
                    "Hell!" he said. "I know how it is with you. You still
                        stick to him, even when he treats you like a dog. You pretend not to love him when as a matter
                        of fact you're mad about him. I've seen it all along. You don't
                        really care anything about me. You can't. You're too crazy about
                        him."
                    "Oh, shut up!" replied Aileen, irritated greatly for the  moment by this onslaught. "You talk like a
                        fool. I'm not anything of the sort. I admire him. How could any one help it?"
                        (At this time, of course, Cowperwood's name was filling the city.)
                        "He's a very wonderful man. He was never brutal to me. He's a
                        full-sized manI'll say that for him."
                    By now Aileen had become sufficiently familiar with Lynde to criticize him in her own
                        mind, and even outwardly by innuendo, for being a loafer and idler who had never created in any
                        way the money he was so freely spending. She had little power to psychologize concerning social
                        conditions, but the stalwart constructive persistence of Cowperwood along commercial lines
                        coupled with the current American contempt of leisure reflected somewhat unfavorably upon Lynde,
                        she thought.
                    Lynde's face clouded still more at this outburst. "You go to the
                        devil," he retorted. "I don't get you at all. Sometimes you talk as
                        though you were fond of me. At other times you're all wrapped up in him+ Now you either
                        care for me or you don't. Which is it? If you're so crazy about him that you
                        can't leave home for a month or so you certainly can't care much about
                        me."
                    Aileen, however, because of her long experience with Cowperwood was more than a match
                        for Lynde. At the same time she was afraid to let go of him for fear that she should have no one
                        to care for her. She liked him. He was a happy resource in her misery, at least for the moment.
                        Yet the knowledge that Cowperwood looked upon this affair as a heavy blemish on her pristine
                        solidarity cooled her. At the thought of him and of her whole tarnished and troubled career she
                        was very unhappy.
                    "Hell!" Lynde had repeated, irritably, "stay if you want
                        to. I'll not be trying to over-persuade youdepend on that."
                    They quarreled still further over this matter, and, though they eventually made up,
                        both sensed the drift toward an ultimately unsatisfactory conclusion.
                    It was one morning not long after this that Cowperwood, feeling in a genial mood over
                        his affairs, came into Aileen's room, as he still did on occasions, to finish dressing
                        and pass the time of day.
                    
                    "Well," he observed, gaily, as he stood before the mirror adjusting
                        his collar and tie, "how are you and Lynde getting along these daysnlcely?"
                    "Oh, you go to the devil!" replied Aileen, flaring up and
                        struggling with her divided feelings, which pained her constantly. "If it
                        hadn't been for you there wouldn't be any chance for your smarty
                        'how-am-I-getting-alongs.' I am getting along all rightfineregardless of
                        anything you may think. He's as good a man as you are any day, and better. I like him.
                        At least he's fond of me, and that's more than you are. Why should you care
                        what I do? You don't, so why talk about it? I want you to let me alone."
                    "Aileen, Aileen, how you carry on! Don't flare up so. I meant
                        nothing by it. I'm sorry as much for myself as for you. I've told you
                        I'm not jealous. You think I'm critical. I'm not anything of the
                        kind. I know how you feel. That's all very good."
                    "Oh yes, yes," she replied. "Well, you can keep your
                        feelings to yourself. Go to the devil! Go to the devil, I tell you!" Her eyes blazed.
                    He stood now, fully dressed, in the center of the rug before her, and Aileen looked
                        at him, keen, valiant, handsome her old Frank. Once again she regretted her nominal
                        faithlessness, and raged at him in her heart for his indifference. "You dog,"
                        she was about to add, "you have no heart!" but she changed her mind. Her
                        throat tightened and her eyes filled. She wanted to run to him and say'. "Oh,
                        Frank, don't you understand how it all is, how it all came about? Won't you
                        love me againcan't you?" But she restrained herself. It seemed to her that he
                        might understandthat he would, in factbut that he would never again be faithful, anyhow. And she
                        would so gladly have discarded Lynde and any and all men if he would only have said the word,
                        would only have really and sincerely wished her to do so.
                    It was one day not long after their morning quarrel in her bedroom that Cowperwood
                        broached the matter m living in New York to Aileen pointing out that thereby his art-collection,
                        which was growing constantly, might be more suitably housed, and that it would give her a second
                        opportunity to enter social life.
                    
                    "So that you can get rid of me out here," commented Aileen, little
                        knowing of Berenice Fleming.
                    "Not at all," replied Cowperwood, sweetly. "You see how
                        things are. There's no chance of our getting into Chicago society. There's too
                        much financial opposition against me here. If we had a big house in New York, such as I would
                        build, it would be an introduction in itself. After all, these Chicagoans aren't even a
                        snapper on the real society whip. It's the Easterners who set the pace, and the
                        New-Yorkers most of all. If you want to say the word, I can sell this place and we can live down
                        there, part of the time, anyhow. I could spend as much of my time with you there as I have been
                        doing here-perhaps more."
                    Because of her soul of vanity Aileen's mind ran forward in spite of herself
                        to the wider opportunities which his words suggested. This house had become a nightmare to her a
                        place of neglect and bad memories. Here she had fought with Rita Sohlberg; here she bad seen
                        society come for a very little while only to disappear; here she had waited this long time for
                        the renewal of Cowperwood's love, which was now obviously never to be restored in its
                        original glamour. As he spoke she looked at him quizzically, almost sadly in her great doubt. At
                        the same time she could not help reflecting that in New York where money counted for so much,
                        and with Cowperwood's great and growing wealth and prestige behind her, she might hope
                        to find herself socially at last. "Nothing venture, nothing have" had; always
                        been her motto, nailed to her mast, though her equipment for the life she now craved had never
                        been more than the veriest make-believepainted wood and tinsel. Vain, radiant, hopeful Aileen!
                        Yet how was she to know?
                    "Very well," she observed, finally. "Do as you like. I can
                        live down there as well as I can here, I presume-alone."
                    Cowperwood knew the nature of her longings. He knew what was running in her mind, and
                        how futile were her dreams. Life had taught him how fortuitous must he the circumstances which
                        could enable a woman of Aileen's handicaps and defects to enter that cold upper world.
                        Yet for all the courage of him, for the very life of him, he  could not tell her. He could not forget that once, behind the grim bars in
                        the penitentiary for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, he had cried on her shoulder. He
                        could not be an ingrate and wound her with his inmost thoughts any more than he could deceive
                        himself. A New York mansion and the dreams of social supremacy which she might there entertain
                        would soothe her ruffled vanity and assuage her disappointed heart; and at the same time he
                        would be nearer Berenice Fleming. Say what one will of these ferret windings of the human mind,
                        they are, nevertheless, true and characteristic of the average human being, and Cowperwood was
                        no exception. He saw it all, he calculated on ithe calculated on the simple humanity of
                    Aileen.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVI
                    DEPTHS AND HEIGHTS
                    THE complications which had followed his various sentimental affairs left Cowperwood
                        in a quandary at times as to whether there could be any peace or satisfaction outside of
                        monogamy, after all. Although Mrs. Hand had gone to Europe at the crisis of her affairs, she had
                        returned to seek him out. Cecily Haguenin found many opportunities of writing him letters and
                        assuring him of her undying affection. Florence Cochrane persisted in seeing or attempting to
                        see him even after his interest in her began to wane. For another thing Aileen, owing to the
                        complication and general degeneracy of her affairs, had recently begun to drink. Owing to the
                        failure of her affair with Lyndefor in spite of her yielding she had never had any real heart
                        interest in itand to the cavalier attitude with which Cowperwood took her disloyalty, she had
                        reached that state of speculative doldrums where the human animal turns upon itself in bitter
                        self-analysis; the end with the more sensitive or the less durable is dissipation or even death.
                        Woe to him who places his faith in illusionthe only realityand woe to him who does not. In one
                        way lies disillusion with its pain, in the other way regret.
                    After Lynde's departure for Europe, whither she had refused to follow him,
                        Aileen took up with a secondary personage by the name of Watson Skeet, a sculptor. Unlike most
                        artists, he was the solitary heir of the president of an immense furniture-manufacturing company
                        in which he refused to take any interest. He had studied abroad,-but had returned to Chicago
                        with a view to propagating art in the West. A large, blond, soft-fleshed man, he had a kind of
                        archaic naturalness and simplicity which appealed to Aileen. They had met at the Rhees
                        Gfiers'. Feeling  herself neglected after
                        Lynde's departure, and dreading loneliness above all things, Aileen became intimate
                        with Skeet, but to no intense mental satisfaction. That driving standard withinthat obsessing
                        ideal which requires that all things be measured by itwas still dominant. Who has not
                        experienced the chilling memory of the better thing? How it creeps over the spirit of
                        one's current dreams! Like the specter at the banquet it stands, its substanceless eyes
                        viewing with a sad philosophy the makeshift feast. The what-might-have-been of her life with
                        Cowperwood walked side by side with her wherever she went. Once occasionally indulging in
                        cigarettes, she now smoked almost constantly. Once barely sipping at wines, cocktails,
                        brandy-and-soda, she now took to the latter, or, rather, to a new whisky-and-soda combination
                        known as "highball" with a kind of vehemence which had little to do with a
                        taste for the thing itse f. True, drinking is, after all, a state of mind, and not an appetite.
                        She had found on a number of occasions when she had been quarreling with Lynde or was mentally
                        depressed that in partaking of these drinks a sort of warm, speculative indiff'erence
                        seized upon her. She was no longer so sad. She might cry, but it was in a soft, rainy, relieving
                        way. Her sorrows were as strange, enticing figures in dreams. They moved about and around her,
                        not as things actually identical with her, but as ills which she could view at a distance.
                        Sometimes both she and they (for she saw herself also as in a kind of mirage or inverted vision)
                        seemed beings of another state, troubled, but not bitterly painfu The old nepenthe of the bott e
                        had seized upon her. After a few accidental lapses, in which she found it acted as a solace or
                        sedative, the highball visioned itself to her as a resource. Why should she not drink if it
                        relieved her, as it actually did, of physical and mental pain? There were apparently no bad
                        after-effects. The whisky involved was diluted to an almost watery state. It was her custom now
                        when at home alone to go to the butler's pantry where the liquors were stored and
                        prepare a drink for herself or to order a tray with a siphon and bottle placed in her room.
                        Cowperwood, noticing the persistence of its presence there and the fact that she drank heavily
                        at table, commented upon it.
                    
                    "You're not taking too much of that, are you, Aileen?" he
                        questioned one evening, watching her drink down a tumbler of whisky and water as she sat
                        contemplating a pattern of needlework with which the table was ornamented.
                    "Certainly I'm not," she replied irritably, a little
                        flushed and thick of tongue. "Why do you ask?" She herself had been wondering
                        whether in the course of time it might not have a depreciating effect on her complexion. This
                        was the only thing that still concerned herher beauty.
                    "Well, I see you have that bottle in your room all the time. I was wondering
                        if you might not be forgetting how much you are using it."
                    Because she was so sensitive he was trying to be tactful.
                    "Well" she answered, crossly, "what if I am? It
                        wouldn't make any particular difference if I did. I might as well drink as do some
                        other things that are done."
                    It was a kind of satisfaction to her to bait him in this way. His inquiry, being a
                        proof of continued interest on his part, was of some value. At least he was not entirely
                        indifferent to her.
                    "I wish you wouldn't talk that way, Aileen," he replied.
                        "I have no objection to your drinking some. I don't suppose it makes any
                        difference to you now whether I object or not. But you are too good-looking, too well set up
                        physically, to begin that. You don't need it, and it's such a short road to
                        hell. Your state isn't so bad. Good heavens! many another woman has been in your
                        position. I'm not going to leave you unless you want to leave me. I've told
                        you that over and over. I'm just sorry people changewe all do. I suppose I've
                        changed some, but that's no reason for your letting yourself go to pieces. I wish you
                        wouldn't be desperate about this business. It may come out better than you think in the
                        long run."
                    He was merely talking to console her.
                    "Oh! oh! oh!" Aileen suddenly began to rock and cry in a foolish
                        drunken way, as though her heart would break, and Cowperwood got up. He was horrified after a
                        fashion.
                    "Oh, don't come near me!" Aileen suddenly exclaimed,  sobering in an equally strange way. "I know
                        why you come. I know how much you care about me or my looks. Don't you worry whether I
                        drink or not. I'll drink if I please, or do anything else if I choose. If it helps me
                        over my difficulties, that's my business, not yours," and in defiance she
                        prepared another glass and drank it.
                    Cowperwood shook his head, looking at her steadily and sorrowfully.
                        "It's too bad, Aileen," he said. "I don't know what
                        to do about you exactly. You oughtn't to go on this way. Whisky won't get you
                        anywhere. It will simply ruin your looks and make you miserable in the bargain."
                    "Oh, to hell with my looks!" she snapped. "A lot of good
                        they've done me." And, feeling contentious and sad, she got up and left the
                        table. Cowperwood followed her after a time, only to see her dabbing at her eyes and nose with
                        powder. A half-filled glass of whisky and water was on the dressing-table beside her. It gave
                        him a strange feeling of responsibility and helplessness.
                    Mingled with his anxiety as to Aileen were thoughts of the alternate rise and fall of
                        his hopes in connection with Berenice. She was such a superior girl, developing so definitely as
                        an individual. To his satisfaction she had, on a few recent occasions when he had seen her,
                        unbent sufficiently to talk to him in a friendly and even intimate way for she was by no means
                        hoity-toity, but a thinking, reasoning being of the profoundest intellectual, or rather, the
                        highest artistic tendencies. She was so care-free, living in a high and solitary world, at times
                        apparently enwrapt in thoughts serene, at other times sharing vividly in the current interests
                        of the social world of which she was a part, and which she dignified as much as it dignified
                        her.
                    One Sunday morning at Pocono, in late June weather, when he had come East to rest for
                        a few days, and all was still and airy on the high ground which the Carter cottage occupied,
                        Berenice came out on the veranda where Cowperwood was sitting, reading a fiscal report of one of
                        his companies and meditating on his affairs. By now they had become somewhat more sympatica than formerly, and Berenice had an easy, genial way in his
                        presence. She liked him, rather. With an indescribable smile which  wrinkled her nose and eyes, and played about the corners of her mouth, she
                        said:
                    "Now I am going to catch a bird."
                    "A what?" asked Cowperwood, looking up and pretending he had not
                        heard, though he had. He was all eyes for any movement of hers. She was dressed in a flouncy
                        morning gown eminently suitable for the world in which she was moving.
                    "A bird," she replied, with an airy toss of her head.
                        "This is June-time, and the sparrows are teaching their young to fly."
                    Cowperwood, previously engrossed in financial speculations, was translated, as by the
                        wave of a fairy wand, into another realm where birds and fledglings and grass and the light
                        winds of heaven were more important than brick and stone and stocks and bonds. He got up and
                        followed her flowing steps across the grass to where, near a clump, of alder bushes, she had
                        seen a mother sparrow enticing a fledgling to take wing. From her room up-stairs she had been
                        watching this bit of outdoor sociology. It suddenly came to Cowperwood, with great force, how
                        comparatively unimportant in the great drift of life were his own affairs when about him was
                        operative all this splendid will to existence, as sensed by her. He saw her stretch out her
                        hands downward, and run in an airy, graceful way, stooping here I and there, while before her
                        fluttered a baby sparrow, until suddenly she dived quickly and then, turning, her face agleam,
                        cried: "See, I have him! He wants to fight, too! Oh, you little dear!"
                    She was holding "him," as she chose to characterize it, in the
                        hollow of her hand, the head between her thumb and forefinger, with the forefinger of her free
                        hand petting it the while she laughed and kissed it. It was not so much bird-love as the
                        artistry of life and of herself that was moving her. Hearing the parent bird chirping
                        distractedly from a near-by limb, she turned and called: "Don't make such a
                        row! I sha'n't keep him long."
                    Cowperwood laughedtrig in the morning sun. "You can scarcely blame
                        her," he commented.
                    "Oh, she knows well enough I wouldn't hurt him," Berenice
                        replied, spiritedly, as though it were literally true.
                    
                    "Does she, indeed?" inquired Cowperwood. "Why do you say
                        that?"
                    "Because it's true. Don't you think they know when their
                        children are really in danger?"
                    "But why should they?" persisted Cowperwood, charmed and interested
                        by the involute character of her logic. She was quite deceptive to him. He could not be sure
                        what she thought.
                    She merely fixed him a moment with her cool, slate-blue eyes. "Do you think
                        the senses of the world are only five?" she asked in the most charming and
                        non-reproachful way. 'Indeed, they know well enough. She knows." She turned
                        and waved a graceful hand in the direction of the tree, where peace now reigned. The chirping
                        had ceased.
                    "She knows I am not a cat."
                    Again that enticing, mocking smile that wrinkled her nose, her eye-corners, her
                        mouth. The word "cat" had a sharp, sweet sound in her mouth. It seemed to be
                        bitten off closely with force and airy spirit. Cowperwood surveyed her as he would have surveyed
                        the ablest person he knew. Here was a woman, he saw, who could and would command the utmost
                        reaches of his soul in every direction. If he interested her at all, he would need them all. The
                        eyes of her were at once so elusive, so direct, so friendly, so cool and keen. "You
                        will have to be interesting, indeed, to interest me," they seemed to say; and yet they
                        were by no means averse, apparently, to a hearty camaraderie. That nose-wrinkling smile said as
                        much. Here was by no means a Stephanie Platow, nor yet a Rita Sohlberg. He could not assume her
                        as he had Ella Hubby, or Florence Cochrane, or Cecily Haguenin. Here was an iron individuality
                        with a soul for romance and art and philosophy and life. He could not take her as he had those
                        others, And yet Berenice was really beginning to think more than a little about Cowperwood. He
                        must be an extraordinary man; her mother said so, and the newspapers were always mentioning his
                        name and noting his movements.
                    A little later, at Southampton, whither she and her mother had gone, they met again.
                        Together with a young man by the name of Greanelle, Cowperwood and Berenice had gone into the
                        sea to bathe. It was a wonderful afternoon.  To the
                        east and south and west spread the sea, a crinkling floor of blue, and to their left, as they
                        faced it, was a lovely outward-curving shore of tawny sand. Studying Berenice in blue-silk
                        bathing costume and shoes, Cowperwood had been stung by the wonder of passing lifehow youth
                        comes in, ever fresh and fresh, and age goes out. Here he was, long crowded years of conflict
                        and experience behind him, and yet this twenty-year-old girl, with her incisive mind and keen
                        tastes, was apparently as wise in matters of general import as himself. He could find no flaw in
                        her armor in those matters which they could discuss. Her knowledge and comments were so ripe and
                        sane, despite a tendency to pose a little, which was quite within her rights. Because Greanelle
                        had bored her a little she had shunted him off and was amusing herself talking to Cowperwood,
                        who fascinated her by his compact individuality.
                    "Do you know," she confided to him, on this occasion, "I
                        get so very tired of young men sometimes. They can be so inane. I do declare, they are nothing
                        more than shoes and ties and socks and canes strung together in some unimaginable way. Vaughn
                        Greanelle is for all the world like a perambulating manikin to-day. He is just an English suit
                        with a cane attached walking about."
                    "Well, bless my soul," commented Cowperwood, "what an
                        indictment!"
                    "It's true," she replied. "He knows nothing at
                        all except polo, and the latest swimming-stroke, and where everybody is, and who is going to
                        marry who. Isn't it dull?"
                    She tossed her head back and breathed as though to exhale the fumes of the dull and
                        inane from her inmost being.
                    "Did you tell him that?" inquired Cowperwood, curiously.
                    "Certainly I did."
                    "I don't wonder he looks so solemn," he said, turning and
                        looking back at Greanelle and Mrs. Carter; they were sitting side by side in sand-chairs the
                        former beating the sand with his toes. "You're a curious girl, Berenice, he
                        went on, familiarly. "You are so direct and vital at times."
                    "Not any more than you are, from all I can hear," she  replied, fixing him with those steady eyes.
                        "Anyhow, why should I be bored? He is so dull He follows me around out here all the
                        time, and I don't want him."
                    She tossed her head and began to run up the beach to where bathers were fewer and
                        fewer, looking back at Cowperwood as if to say, "Why don't you
                        follow?" He developed a burst of enthusiasm and ran quite briskly, overtaking her near
                        some shallows where, because of a sandbar offshore, the waters were thin and bright.
                    "Oh, look!" exclaimed Berenice, when he came up. "See, the
                        fish! O-oh!"
                    She dashed in to where a few feet offshore a small school of minnows as large as
                        sardines were playing, silvery in the sun. She ran as she had for the bird, doing her best to
                        frighten them into a neighboring pocket or pool farther up on the shore. Cowperwood, as gay as a
                        boy of ten joined in the chase. He raced after them briskly, losing one school, but pocketing
                        another a little farther on and calling to her to come.
                    "Oh!" exclaimed Berenice at one point. "Here they are now.
                        Come quick! Drive them in here!"
                    Her hair was blowy, her face a keen pink, her eyes an electric blue by contrast. She
                        was bending low over the waterCowperwood alsotheir hands outstretched the fish, some five n all,
                        nervously dancing before them in their efforts to escape. All at once, having forced them into a
                        corner, they dived; Berenice actually caught one. Cowperwood missed by a fraction, but drove the
                        fish she did catch into her hands.
                    "Oh," she exclaimed, jumping up, "how wonderful!
                        It's alive. I caught it."
                    She danced up and down, and Cowperwood, standing before her, was sobered by her
                        charm. He felt an impulse to speak to her of his affection, to tell her how delicious she was to
                        him.
                    "You," he said, pausing over the word and giving it special
                        emphasis"you are the only thing here that is wonderful to me."
                    She looked at him a moment, the live fish in her extended hands, her eyes keying to
                        the situation. For the least fraction of a moment she was uncertain, as he could see,  how to take this. Many men had been approximative
                        before. It was common to have compliments paid to her. But this was different. She said nothing,
                        but fixed him with a look which said quite plainly, "You had better not say anything
                        more just now, I think." Then, seeing that he understood, that his manner softened, and
                        that he was troubled, she c inkled her nose gaily and added: "It's like
                        fairyland. I feel as though I had caught it out of another world." Cowperwood
                        understood. The direct approach I was not for use in her case; and yet there was something, I a
                        camaraderie a sympathy which he felt and which she felt. A girls' school conventions,
                        the need of socially placing herself, her conservative friends, and the r viewpointall were
                        working here. If he were only single now, she told herself, she would be willing to listen to
                        him in a very different spirit, for he was charming. But this way And he, for his part,
                        concluded that here was one woman whom he would gladly marry if she would have him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVII
                    AMERICAN MATCH
                    FOLLOWING Cowperwood's coup in securing cash by means of his seeming gift of
                        three hundred thousand dollars for a telescope his enemies rested for a time, but only because
                        of a lack of ideas wherewith to destroy him. Public sentimentcreated by the newspaperswas still
                        against him. Yet his franchises had still from eight to ten years to run, and meanwhile he might
                        make himself unassailably powerful. For the present he was busy, surrounded by his engineers and
                        managers and legal advisers, constructing his several elevated lines at a whirlwind rate. At the
                        same time, through Videra, Kaffrath, and Addison, he was effecting a scheme of loaning money on
                        call to the local Chicago banksthe very banks which were most opposed to himso that in a crisis
                        he could retaliate. By manipulating the vast quantity of stocks and bonds of which he was now
                        the master he was making money hand over fist, his one rule being that six per cent. was enough
                        to pay any holder who had merely purchased his stock as an outsider. It was most profitable to
                        himself. When his stocks earned more than that he issued new ones, selling them on
                        'change and pocketing the difference. Out of the cash-drawers of his various companies
                        he took immense sums, temporary loans, as it were, which later he had charged by his humble
                        servitors to "construction," "equipment," or
                        "operation." He was like a. canny wolf prowling in a forest of trees of his
                        own creation.
                    The weak note in this whole project of elevated lines was that for some time it was
                        destined to be unprofitable. Its very competition tended to weaken the value of his surface-line
                        companies. His holdings in these as well as  in
                        elevated-road shares were immense. If anything happened to cause them to fall in price immense
                        numbers of these same stocks held by others would be thrown on the market, thus still further
                        depreciating their value and compelling him to come into the market and buy. With the most
                        painstaking care he began at once to pile up a reserve in government bonds for emergency
                        purposes, which he decided should be not less than eight or nine million dollars, for he feared
                        financial storms as well as financial reprisal, and where so much was at stake he did not
                        propose to be caught napping.
                    At the time that Cowperwood first entered on elevated-road construction there was no
                        evidence that any severe depression in the American money-market was imminent. But it was not
                        long before a new difficulty began to appear. It was now the day of the trust in all its watery
                        magnificence. Coal, iron, steel, oil, machinery, and a score of other commercial necessities had
                        already been "trustified," and others, such as leather, shoes, cordage, and
                        the like, were, almost hourly, being brought under the control of shrewd and ruthless men.
                        Already in Chicago Schryhart, Hand, Arneel, Merrill, and a score of others were seeing their way
                        to amazing profits by underwriting these ventures which required ready cash, and to which lesser
                        magnates, content with a portion of the leavings of Dives's table, were glad to bring
                        to their attention. On the other hand, in the nation at large there was growing up a feeling
                        that at the top there were a set of giantsTitanswho, without heart or soul, and without heart or
                        soul, and without any understanding of or sympathy with the condition of the rank and file, were
                        setting forth to enchain and enslave them, The vast mass, writhing in ignorance and poverty,
                        finally turned with pathetic fury to the cure-all of a political leader in the West. This latter
                        prophet, seeing gold becoming scarcer and scarcer and the cash and credits of the land falling
                        into the hands of a few who were manipulating them for their own benefit, had decided that what,
                        was needed was a greater volume of currency, so that credits would be easier and money cheaper
                        to come by in the matter of interest. Silver, of which there was a superabundance in the mines,
                        was to be coined at the ratio of sixteen dollars of silver for every  one of gold in circulation, and the parity of the two metals
                        maintained by fiat of government. Never again should the few be able to make a weapon of the
                        people's medium of exchange in order to bring about their undoing. There was to be
                        ample money, far beyond the control of central banks and the men in power over them. It was a
                        splendid dream worthy of a charitable heart, but because of it a disturbing war for political
                        control of the government was shortly threatened and soon began. The money element, sensing the
                        danger of change involved in the theories of the new political leader, began to fight him and
                        the element in the Democratic party which he represented. The rank and file of both partiesthe
                        more or less hungry and thirsty who lie ever at the bottom on both sideshailed him as a
                        heaven-sent deliverer, a new Moses come to lead them out of the wilderness of poverty and
                        distress. Woe to the political leader who preaches a new doctrine of deliverance, and who, out
                        of tenderness of heart, offers a panacea for human ills. His truly shall be a crown of thorns.
                    Cowperwood, no less than other men of wealth, was opposed to what he deemed a
                        crack-brained ideathat of maintaining a parity between gold and silver by law. Confiscation was
                        his word for itthe confiscation of the wealth of the few for the benefit of the many. Most of
                        all was he opposed to it because he feared that this unrest, which was obviously growing,
                        foreshadowed a class war in which investors would run to cover and money be locked in
                        strong-boxes. At once he began to shorten sail, to invest only in the soundest securities, and
                        to convert all his weaker ones into cash.
                    To meet current emergencies, however, he was compelled to borrow heavily here and
                        there, and in doing so he was quick to note that those banks representing his enemies in Chicago
                        and elsewhere were willing to accept his various stocks as collateral, providing he would accept
                        loans subject to call. He did so gladly, at the same time suspecting Hand, Schryhart, Arneel,
                        and Merrill of some scheme to wreck him, providing they could get him where the calling of his
                        loans suddenly and in concert would financially embarrass him. "I think I know what
                        that crew are up to,"  he once observed to
                        Addison, at this period. "Well, they will have to rise very early in the morning if
                        they catch me napping."
                    The thing that he suspected was really true. Schryhart, Hand, and Arneel, watching
                        him through their agents and brokers, had soon discoveredin the very earliest phases of the
                        silver agitation and before the real storm brokethat he was borrowing in New York, in London, in
                        certain quarters of Chicago, and elsewhere. "It looks to me," said Schryhart,
                        one day, to his friend Arneel, "as if our friend has gotten in a little too deep. He
                        has overreached himself. These elevated-road schemes of his have eaten up too much capital.
                        There is another election coming on next fall, and he knows we are going to fight tooth and
                        nail. He needs money to electrify his surface lines. If we could trace out exactly where he
                        stands, and where he has borrowed, we might know what to do."
                    "Unless I am greatly mistaken," replied Arneel, "he is in
                        a tight place or is rapidly getting there. This silver agitation is beginning to weaken stocks
                        and tighten money. I suggest that our banks here loan him all the money he wants on call. When
                        the time comes, if he isn't ready, we can shut him up tighter than a drum. If we can
                        pick up any other loans he's made anywhere else, well and good."
                    Mr. Arneel said this without a shadow of bitterness or humor. In some tight hour,
                        perhaps, now fast approaching, Mr. Cowperwood would be promised
                        salvation'saved' on condition that he should leave Chicago forever. There were
                        those who would take over his property m the interest of the city and upright government and
                        administer it accordingly.
                    Unfortunately, at this very time Messrs. Hand, Schryhart, and Arneel were themselves
                        concerned in a little venture to which the threatened silver agitation could bode nothing but
                        ill. This concerned so simple a thing as matches, a commodity which at this time, along with
                        many others, had been trustified and was yielding a fine profit. "American
                        Match" was a stock which was already listed on every exchange and which was selling
                        steadily around one hundred and twenty.
                    
                    The geniuses who had first planned a combination of all match concerns and a monopoly
                        of the trade in America were two men, Messrs. Hull and Stackpolebankers and brokers, primarily.
                        Mr. Phineas Hull was a small, ferret-like, calculating man with a sparse growth of dusty-brown
                        hair and an eyelid, the right one, which was partially paralyzed and drooped heavily, giving him
                        a characterful and yet at times a sinister expression.
                    His partner, Mr. Benoni Stackpole, had been once a stage-driver in Akansas, and later
                        a horse-trader. He was a man of great force and calculationlarge, oleaginous, politic, and
                        courageous. Without the ultimate brain capacity of such men as Arneel, Hand, and Merrill, he
                        was, nevertheless, resourceful and able. He had started somewhat late in the race for wealth,
                        but now, with all his strength, he was endeavoring to bring to fruition this plan which, with
                        the aid of Hull, he had formulated. Inspired by the thought of great wealth, they had first
                        secured control of the stock of one match company, and had then put themselves in a position to
                        bargain with the owners of others. The patents and processes controlled by one company and
                        another had been combined, and the field had broadened as much as possible.
                    But to do all this a great deal of money had been required, much more than was in
                        possession of either Hull or Stackpole. Both of them being Western men, they looked first to
                        Western capital. Hand, Schryhart, Arneel, and Merrill were in turn appealed to, and great blocks
                        of the new stock were sold to them at inside figures. By the means thus afforded the combination
                        proceeded apace. Patents for exclusive processes were taken over from all sides, and the idea of
                        invading Europe and eventually controlling the market of the world had its inception. At the
                        same time it occurred to each and all of their lordly patrons that it would be a splendid thing
                        if the stock they had purchased at forty-five, and which was now selling in open market at one
                        hundred and twenty, should go to three hundred, where, if these monopolistic dreams were true,
                        it properly belonged. A little more of this stockthe destiny of which at this time seemed sure
                        and splendidwould not be amiss. And so there began a quiet campaign on the  part of each capitalist to gather enough of it to realize a true
                        fortune on the rise.
                    A game of this kind is never played with the remainder of the financial community
                        entirely unaware of what is on foot. In the inner circles of brokerage life rumors were soon
                        abroad that a tremendous boom was in store for American Match. Cowperwood heard of it through
                        Addison, always at the center of financial rumor, and the two of them bought heavily, though not
                        so heavily but that they could clear out at any time with at least a slight margin in their
                        favor. During a period of eight months the stock slowly moved upward, finally crossing the
                        two-hundred mark and reaching two-twenty, at which figure both Addison and Cowperwood sold,
                        realizing nearly a million between them on their investment.
                    In the mean time the foreshadowed political storm was brewing. At first a cloud no
                        larger than a man's hand, it matured swiftly in the late months of 1895, and by the
                        spring of 1896 it had become portentous and was ready to burst. With the climacteric nomination
                        of the "Apostle of Free Silver" for President of the United States, which
                        followed in July, a chill settled down over the conservative and financial elements of the
                        country. What Cowperwood had wisely proceeded to do months before, others less far-seeing, from
                        Maine to California and from the Gulf to Canada, began to do now. Bank-deposits were in part
                        withdrawn; feeble or uncertain securities were thrown upon the market. All at once Schryhart,
                        Arneel, Hand, and Merrill realized that they were in more or less of a trap in regard to their
                        large holdings in American Match. Having gathered vast quantities of this stock, which had been
                        issued in blocks of millions, it was now necessary to sustain the market or sell at a loss.
                        Since money was needed by many holders, and this stock was selling at two-twenty, telegraphic
                        orders began to pour in from all parts of the country to sell on the Chicago Exchange, where the
                        deal was being engineered and where the market obviously existed. All of the instigators of the
                        deal conferred, and decided to sustain the market. Messrs. Hull and Stack-pole, being the
                        nominal heads of the trust, were delegated to buy, they in turn calling on the principal
                        investors to  take their share, pro rata. Hand,
                        Schryhart, Arneel, and Merrill, weighted with this inpouring flood of stock, which they had to
                        take at two-twenty, hurried to their favorite banks, hypothecating vast quantities at one-fifty
                        and over, and using the money so obtained to take care of the additional shares which they were
                        compelled to buy.
                    At last, however, their favorite banks were full to overflowing and at the
                        danger-point. They could take no more.
                    "No, no, no!" Hand declared to Phineas Hull over the
                        'phone. "I can't risk another dollar in this venture, and I
                        won't! It's a perfect proposition. I realize all its merits just as well as
                        you do. But enough is enough. I tell you a financial slump is coming. That's the reason
                        all this stock is coming out now. I am willing to protect my interests in this thing up to a
                        certain point. As I told you, I agree not to throw a single share on the market of all that I
                        now have. But more than that I cannot do. The other gentlemen in this agreement will have to
                        protect themselves as best they can. I have other things to look out for that are just as
                        important to me, and more so, than American Match."
                    It was the same with Mr. Schryhart, who, stroking a crisp, black mustache, was
                        wondering whether he had not better throw over what holdings he had and clear out; however, he
                        feared the rage of Hand and Arneel for breaking the market and thus bringing on a local panic.
                        It was risky business. Arneel and Merrill finally agreed to hold firm to what they had; but, as
                        they told Mr. Hull, nothing could induce them to "protect" another share, come
                        what might.
                    In this crisis naturally Messrs. Hull and Stackpoleestimable gentlemen bothwere
                        greatly depressed. By no means so wealthy as their lofty patrons, their private fortunes were in
                        much greater jeopardy. They were eager to make any port in so black a storm. Witness, then, the
                        arrival of Benoni Stackpole at the office of Frank Algernon Cowperwood. He was at the end of his
                        tether, and Cowperwood was the only really rich man in the city not yet involved in this
                        speculation. In the beginning he had heard both Hand and Schryhart say that they did not  care to become involved if Cowperwood was in any
                        way, shape, or manner to be included, but that had been over a year ago, and Schryhart and Hand
                        were now, as it were, leaving both him and his partner to their fates. They could have no
                        objection to his dealing with Cowperwood in this crisis if he could make sure that the magnate
                        would not sell him out. Mr. Stackpole was six feet one in his socks and weighed two hundred and
                        thirty pounds. Clad in a brown linen suit and straw hat (for it was late July), he carried a
                        palm-leaf fan as well as his troublesome stocks in a small yellow leather bag. He was wet with
                        perspiration and in a gloomy state of mind. Failure was staring him in the facegiant failure. If
                        American Match fell below two hundred he would have to close his doors as banker and broker and,
                        in view of what he was carrying, he and Hull would fail for approximately twenty million
                        dollars. Messrs. Hand, Schryhart, Arneel, and Merrill would lose in the neighborhood of six or
                        eight millions between them. The local banks would suffer in proportion, though not nearly so
                        severely, for, loaning at one-fifty, they would only sacrifice the difference between that and
                        the lowest point to which the stock might fall.
                    Cowperwood eyed the new-comer, when he entered, with an equivocal eye, for he knew
                        well now what was coming. Only a few days before he had predicted an eventual smash to Addison.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood," began Stackpole, "in this bag I have
                        fifteen thousand shares of American Match, par value one million five hundred thousand dollars,
                        market value three million three hundred thousand at this moment, and worth every cent of three
                        hundred dollars a share and more. I don't know how closely you have been following the
                        developments of American Match. We own all the patents on labor-saving machines and,
                        what's more, we're lust about to close contracts with Italy and France to
                        lease our machines and processes to them for pretty nearly one million dollars a year each.
                        We're dickering with Austria and England, and of course we'll take up other
                        countries later. The American Match Company will yet make matches for the whole world, whether
                        I'm connected with it or not. This silver 
                        agitation has caught us right in mid-ocean, and we're having a little trouble
                        weathering the storm. I'm a perfectly frank man when it comes to close business
                        relations of this kind, and I'm going to tell you just how things stand. If we can
                        scull over this rough place that has come up on account of the silver agitation our stock will
                        go to three hundred before the first of the year. Now, if you want to take it you can have it
                        outright at one hundred and fifty dollarsthat is, providing you'll agree not to throw
                        any of it back on the market before next December; or, if you won't promise
                        that" (he paused to see if by any chance he could read Cowperwood's
                        inscrutable face) 'I want you to loan me one hundred and fifty dollars a share on these
                        for thirty days at least at ten or fifteen, or whatever rate you care to fix."
                    Cowperwood interlocked his fingers and twiddled his thumbs as he contemplated this
                        latest evidence of earthly difficulty and uncertainty. Time and chance certainly happened to all
                        men, and here was one opportunity of paying out those who had been nagging him. To take this
                        stock at one-fifty on loan and peddle it out swiftly and fully at two-twenty or less would bring
                        American Match crumbling about their ears. When it was selling at one-fifty or less he could buy
                        it back, pocket his profit, complete his deal with Mr. Stackpole, pocket his interest, and smile
                        like the well-fed cat in the fable. It was as simple as twiddling his thumbs, which he was now
                        doing.
                    "Who has been backing this stock here in Chicago besides yourself and Mr.
                        Hull?" he asked, pleasantly. "I think that I already know, but I should like
                        to be certain if you have no objection."
                    "None in the least, none in the least," replied Mr. Stackpole,
                        accommodatingly. "Mr. Hand, Mr. Schryhart, Mr. Arneel, and Mr. Merrill."
                    "That is what I thought," commented Cowperwood, easily.
                        "They can't take this up for you? Is that it? Saturated?"
                    "Saturated," agreed Mr. Stackpole, dully. "But
                        there's one thing I'd have to stipulate in accepting a loan on these. Not a
                        share must be thrown on the market, or, at least, not before I have failed to respond to your
                        call. I have understood  that there is a little
                        feeling between you and Mr. Hand and the other gentlemen I have mentioned. But, as I sayand
                        I'm talking perfectly frankly nowI'm in a corner, and it's any port
                        in a storm. If you want to help me I'll make the best terms I can, and I won't
                        forget the favor."
                    He opened the bag and began to take out the securitieslong greenish-yellow bundles,
                        tightly gripped in the center by thick elastic bands. They were in bundles of one thousand
                        shares each. Since Stackpole half proffered them to him, Cowperwood took them in one hand and
                        lightly weighed them up and down.
                    "I'm sorry, Mr. Stackpole," he said, sympathetically,
                        after a moment of apparent reflection, "but I cannot possibly help you in this matter.
                        I'm too involved in other things myself, and I do not often indulge in
                        stock-speculations of any kind. I have no particular malice toward any one of the gentlemen you
                        mention. I do not trouble to dislike all who dislike me. I might, of course, if I chose, take
                        these stocks and pay them out and throw them on the market to-morrow, but I have no desire to do
                        anything of the sort. I only wish I could help you, and if I thought I could carry them safely
                        for three or four months I would. As it is" He lifted his eyebrows sympathetically.
                        "Have you tried all the bankers "in town?"
                    "Practically every one."
                    "And they can't help you?"
                    "They are carrying all they can stand now."
                    "Too bad. I'm sorry, very. By the way, do you happen, by any
                        chance, to know Mr. Millard Bailey or Mr. Edwin Kaffrath?"
                    "No, I don't," replied Stackpole, hopefully.
                    "Well, now, there are two men who are much richer than is generally
                        supposed. They often have very large sums at their disposal. You might look them up on a chance.
                        Then there's my friend Videra. I don't know how he is fixed at present. You
                        can always find him at the Twelfth Ward Bank. He might be inclined to take a good portion of
                        thatI don't know. He's much better off than most people seem to think. I
                        wonder you haven't been directed to some one of these men before." (As a
                        matter of fact,  no one of the individuals in
                        question would have been interested to take a dollar of this loan except on
                        Cowperwood's order, but Stackpole had no reason for knowing this. They were not
                        prominently identified with the magnate.)
                    "Thank you very much. I will," observed Stackpole, restoring his
                        undesired stocks to his bag.
                    Cowperwood, with an admirable show of courtesy, called a stenographer, and pretended
                        to secure for his guest the home addresses of these gentlemen. He then bade Mr. Stackpole an
                        encouraging farewell. The distrait promoter at once decided to try not only Bailey and Kaffrath,
                        but Videra; but even as he drove toward the office of the first-mentioned Cowperwood was
                        personally busy reaching him by telephone.
                    "I say, Bailey," he called, when he had secured the wealthy
                        lumberman on the wire, "Benoni Stackpole, of Hull & Stackpole, was here to see
                        me just now."
                    "Yes."
                    "He has with him fifteen thousand shares of American Matchpar value one
                        hundred, market value to-day two-twenty."
                    "Yes"
                    "He is trying to hypothecate the lot or any part of it at
                        one-fifty."
                    "Yes."
                    "You know what the trouble with American Match is, don't
                        you?"
                    "No. I only know it's being driven up to where it is now by a bull
                        campaign."
                    "Well, listen to me. It's going to break. American Match is going
                        to bust."
                    "Yes."
                    "But I want you to loan this man five hundred thousand dollars at one-twenty
                        or less and then recommend that he go to Edwin Kaffrath or Anton Videra for the
                        balance."
                    "But, Frank, I haven't any five hundred thousand to spare. You say
                        American Match is going to bust."
                    "I know you haven't, but draw the check on the Chicago Trust, and
                        Addison will honor it. Send the stock to me and forget all about it. I will do the rest. But
                        under no circumstances  mention my name, and
                        don't appear too eager. Not more than one-twenty at the outside, do you hear? and less
                        if you can get it. You recognize my voice, do you?"
                    "Perfectly."
                    "Drive over afterward if you have time and let me know what
                        happens."
                    "Very good," commented Mr. Bailey, in a businesslike way.
                    Cowperwood next called for Mr. Kaffrath. Conversing to similar effect with that
                        individual and with Videra, before three-quarters of an hour Cowperwood had arranged completely
                        for Mr. Stackpole's tour. He was to have his total loan at one-twenty or less. Checks
                        were to be forthcoming at once. Different banks were to be drawn onbanks other than the Chicago
                        Trust Company. Cowperwood would see, in some roundabout way, that these checks were promptly
                        honored, whether the cash was there or not. In each case the hypothecated stocks were to be sent
                        to him. Then, having seen to the perfecting of this little programme, and that the banks to be
                        drawn upon in this connection understood perfectly that the checks in question were guaranteed
                        by him or others, he sat down to await the arrival of his henchmen and the turning of the stock
                        into his private safe.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVIII
                    PANIC
                    ON August 4, 1896, the city of Chicago, and for that matter the entire financial
                        world, was startled and amazed by the collapse of American Match, one of the strongest of market
                        securities, and the coincident failure of Messrs. Hull and Stackpole, its ostensible promoters,
                        for twenty millions. As early as eleven o'clock of the preceding day the banking and
                        brokerage world of Chicago, trading in this stock, was fully aware that something untoward was
                        on foot in connection with it. Owing to the high price at which the stock was
                        "protected," and the need of money to liquidate, blocks of this stock from all
                        parts of the country were being rushed to the market with the hope of realizing before the
                        ultimate break. About the stock-exchange, which frowned like a gray fortress at the foot of La
                        Salle Street, all was excitementas though a giant ant-hill had been ruthlessly disturbed. Clerks
                        and messengers hurried to and fro in confused and apparently aimless directions. Brokers whose
                        supply of American Match had been apparently exhausted on the previous day now appeared on
                        'change bright and early, and at the clang of the gong began to offer the stock in
                        sizable lots of from two hundred to five hundred shares. The agents of Hull & Stackpole
                        were in the market, of course, in the front rank of the scrambling, yelling throng, taking up
                        whatever stock appeared at the price they were hoping to maintain. The two promoters were in
                        touch by 'phone and wire not only with those various important personages whom they had
                        induced to enter upon this bull campaign, but with their various clerks and agents on
                        'change. Naturally, under the circumstances both were in a gloomy frame of mind. This
                        game was no longer moving in those large, easy sweeps  which characterize the more favorable aspects of high finance. Sad to relate, as in all the
                        troubled flumes of life where vast currents are compressed in narrow, tortuous spaces, these two
                        men were now concerned chiefly with the momentary care of small but none the less heartbreaking
                        burdens. Where to find fifty thousand to take care of this or that burden of stock which was
                        momentarily falling upon them? They were as two men called upon, with their limited hands and
                        strength, to seal up the ever-increasing crevices of a dike beyond which raged a mountainous and
                        destructive sea.
                    At eleven o'clock Mr. Phineas Hull rose from the chair which sat before his
                        solid mahogany desk, and confronted his partner.
                    "I'll tell you, Ben," he said, "I'm
                        afraid we can't make this. We've hypothecated so much of this stock around
                        town that we can't possibly tell who's doing what. I know as well as
                        I'm standing on this floor that some one, I can't say which one, is selling us
                        out. You don't suppose it could be Cowperwood or any of those people he sent to us, do
                        you?"
                    Stackpole, worn by his experiences of the past few weeks, was inclined to be
                        irritable.
                    "How should I know, Pnineas?" he inquired, scowling in troubled
                        thought. "I don't think so. I didn't notice any signs that they were
                        interested in stock-gambling. Anyhow, we had to have the money in some form. Any one of the
                        whole crowd is apt to get frightened now at any moment and throw the whole thing over.
                        We're in a tight place, that's plain."
                    For the fortieth time he plucked at a too-tight collar and pulled up his
                        shirt-sleeves, for it was stifling, and he was coatless and waistcoatless. Just then Mr.
                        Hull's telephone bell rangthe one connecting with the firm's private office on
                        'change, and the latter jumped to seize the receiver.
                    "Yes?" he inquired, irritably.
                    "Two thousand shares of American offered at two-twenty! Shall I take
                        them?"
                    The man who was 'phoning was in sight of another man who stood at the
                        railing of the brokers' gallery overlooking "the pit," or central
                        room of the stock-exchange, and who  instantly
                        transferred any sign he might receive to the man on the floor. So Mr. Hull's
                        "yea" or "nay" would be would be almost instantly transmuted
                        into a cash transaction on 'change.
                    "What do you think of that?" asked Hull of Stackpole, putting his
                        hand over the receiver's mouth, his right eyelid drooping heavier than ever.
                        "Two thousand more to take up! Where d'you suppose they are coming from?
                        Tch!"
                    "Well, the bottom's out, that's all," replied
                        Stackpole, heavily and gutturally. "We can't do what we can't do. I
                        say this, though: support it at two-twenty until three o'clock. Then we'll
                        figure up where we stand and what we owe. And meanwhile I'll see what I can do. If the
                        banks won't help us and Arneel and that crowd want to get from under, we'll
                        fail, that's all; but not before I've had one more try, by Jericho! They may
                        not help us, but"
                    Actually Mr. Stackpole did not see what was to be done unless Messrs. Hand,
                        Schryhart, Merrill, and Arneel were willing to risk much more money, but it grieved and angered
                        him to think he and Hull should be thus left to sink without a sigh. He had tried Kaffrath,
                        Videra, and Bailey, but they were adamant. Thus cogitating, Stack-pole put on his wide-brimmed
                        straw hat and went out. It was nearly ninety-six in the shade. The granite and asphalt pavements
                        of the down-town district reflected a dry, Turkish-bath-room heat. There was no air to speak of.
                        The sky was a burning, milky blue, with the sun gleaming feverishly upon the upper walls of the
                        tall buildings.
                    Mr. Hand, in his seventh-story suite of offices in the Rookery Building, was
                        suffering from the heat, but much more from mental perturbation. Though not a stingy or
                        penurious man, it was still true that of all earthly things he suffered most from a financial
                        loss. How often had he seen chance or miscalculation sweep apparently strong and valiant men
                        into the limbo of the useless and forgotten! Since the alienation of his wife's
                        affections by Cowperwood, he had scarcely any interest in the world outside his large financial
                        holdings, which included profitable investments in a half-hundred companies. But they must pay,
                        pay, pay heavily in interestall of themand the thought that  one of them might become a failure or a drain on his resources was enough to
                        give him an almost physical sensation of dissatisfaction and unrest, a sort of spiritual and
                        mental nausea which would cling to him for days and days or until he had surmounted the
                        difficulty. Mr. Hand had no least corner in his heart for failure.
                    As a matter of fact, the situation in regard to American Match had reached such
                        proportions as to be almost numbing. Aside from the fifteen thousand shares which Messrs. Hull
                        and Stackpole had originally set aside for themselves, Hand, Arneel, Schryhart, and Merrill had
                        purchased five thousand shares each at forty, but had since been compelled to sustain the market
                        to the extent of over five thousands shares more each, at prices ranging from one-twenty to
                        two-twenty, the largest blocks of shares having been bought at the latter figure. Actually Hand
                        was caught for nearly one million five hundred thousand dollars, and his soul was as gray as a
                        bat's wing. At fifty-seven years of age men who are used only to the most successful
                        financial calculations and the credit that goes with unerring judgment dread to be made a mark
                        by chance fate. It opens the way for comment on their possibly failing vitality or judgment. And
                        so Mr. Hand sat on this hot August afternoon, ensconced in a large carved mahogany chair in the
                        inner recesses of his inner offices, and brooded. Only this morning, in the face of a falling
                        market, he would have sold out openly had he not been deterred by telephone messages from Arneel
                        and Schryhart suggesting the advisability of a pool conference before any action was taken. Come
                        what might on the morrow, he was determined to quit unless he saw some clear way outto be shut
                        of the whole thing unless the ingenuity of Stackpole and Hull should discover a way of
                        sustaining the market without his aid. While he was meditating on how this was to be done Mr.
                        Stackpole appeared, pale, gloomy, wet with perspiration.
                    "Well, Mr. Hand," he exclaimed, wearily, "I've
                        done all I can. Hull and I have kept the market fairly stable so far. You saw what happened
                        between ten and eleven this morning. The jig's up. We've borrowed our last
                        dollar and hypothecated our last share. My personal 
                        fortune has gone into the balance, and so has Hull's. Some one of the outside
                        stockholders, or all of them, are cutting the ground from under us. Fourteen thousand shares
                        since ten o'clock this morning! That tells the story. It can't be done just
                        nownot unless you gentlemen are prepared to go much further than you have yet gone. If we could
                        organize a pool to take care of fifteen thousand more share"
                    Mr. Stackpole paused, for Mr. Hand was holding up a fat, pink digit.
                    "No more of that," he was saying, solemnly. "It
                        can't he done. I, for one, won't sink another dollar in this proposition at
                        this time. I'd rather throw what I have on the market and take what I can get. I am
                        sure the others feel the same way."
                    Mr. Hand, to play safe, had hypothecated nearly all his shares with various banks in
                        order to release his money for other purposes, and he knew he would not dare to throw over all
                        his holdings, just as he knew he would have to make good at the figure at which they had been
                        margined. But it was a fine threat to make.
                    Mr! Stackpole stared ox-like at Mr. Hand.
                    "Very well," he said, "I might as well go back, then, and
                        post a notice on our front door. We bought fourteen thousand shares and held the market where it
                        is, but we haven't a dollar to pay for them with. Unless the banks or some one will
                        take them over for us we're gonewe're bankrupt."
                    Mr. Hand, who knew that if Mr. Stackpole carried out this decision it meant the loss
                        of his one million five hundred thousand, halted mentally. "Have you been to all the
                        banks?" he asked. "What does Lawrence, of the Prairie National, have to
                        say?"
                    "It's the same with all of them," replied Stackpole, now
                        quite desperate, "as it is with you. They have all they can carryevery one.
                        It's this damned silver agitationthat's it, and nothing else. There's
                        nothing the mater with this with this stock. It will right itself in a few months.
                        It's" sure to."
                    "Will it?" commented Mr. Hand, sourly. "That depends on
                        what happens next November." (He was referring to the coming national election.)
                    
                    "Yes, I know," sighed Mr. Stackpole, seeing that it was a
                        condition, and not a theory, that confronted him. Then, suddenly clenching his right hand, he
                        exclaimed, "Damn that upstart!" (He was thinking of the "Apostle of
                        Free Silver.") "He's the cause of all this. Well, if there's
                        nothing to be done I might as well be going. There's all those shares we bought to-day
                        which we ought to be able to hypothecate with somebody. It would be something if we could get
                        even a hundred and twenty on them."
                    "Very true," replied Hand. "I wish it could be done. I,
                        personally, cannot sink any more money. But why don't you go and see Schryhart and
                        Arneel? I've been talking to them, and they seem to be in a position similar to my own;
                        but if they are willing to confer, I am. I don't see what's to be done, but it
                        may be that all of us together might arrange some way of heading off the slaughter of the stock
                        to-morrow. I don't know. If only we don't have to suffer too great a
                        decline."
                    Mr. Hand was thinking that Messrs. Hull and Stackpole might be forced to part with
                        all their remaining holdings at fifty cents on the dollar or less. Then if it could possibly be
                        taken and carried by the united banks for them (Schryhart, himself, Arneel) and sold at a profit
                        later, he and his associates might recoup some of their losses. The local banks at the behest of
                        the big quadrumvirate might be coerced into straining their resources still further. But how was
                        this to be done? How, indeed?
                    It was Schryhart who, in pumping and digging at Stackpole when he finally arrived
                        there, managed to extract from him the truth in regard to his visit to Cowperwood. As a matter
                        of fact, Schryhart himself had been guilty this very day of having thrown two thousand shares of
                        American Match on the market unknown to his confr$eGres. Naturally, he was eager to learn
                        whether Stackpole or any one else had the least suspicion that he was involved. As a consequence
                        he questioned Stackpole closely, and the latter, being anxious as to the outcome of his own
                        interests, was not unwilling to make a clean breast. He had the justification in his own mind
                        that the quadrumvirate had been ready to desert him anyhow.
                    
                    "Why did you go to him?" exclaimed Schryhart, professing to be
                        greatly astonished and annoyed, as, indeed, in one sense he was. "I thought we had a
                        distinct understanding in the beginning that under no circumstances was he to be included in any
                        portion of this. You might as well go to the devil himself for assistance as go there."
                        At the same time he was thinking "How fortunate!" Here was not only a loophole
                        for himself in connection with his own subtle side-plays, but also, if the quadrumvirate
                        desired, an excuse for deserting the troublesome fortunes of Hull & Stackpole.
                    "Well, the truth is," replied Stackpole, somewhat sheepishly and
                        yet defiantly, "last Thursday I had fifteen thousand shares on which I had to raise
                        money. Neither you nor any of the others wanted any more. The banks wouldn't take them.
                        I called up Rambaud on a chance, and he suggested Cowperwood.
                    As has been related, Stackpole had really gone to Cowperwood direct, but a lie under
                        the circumstances seemed rather essential.
                    "Rambaud!" sneered Schryhart. "Cowperwood's
                        man;he and all the others. You couldn't have gone to a worse crowd if you had tried. So
                        that's where this stock is coming from, beyond a doubt. That fellow or his friends are
                        selling us out. You might have known he'd do it. He hates us. So you're
                        through, are you? not another single trick to turn?"
                    "Not one," replied Stackpole, solemnly.
                    "Well, that's too bad. You have acted most unwisely in going to
                        Cowperwood; but we shall have to see what can be done."
                    Schryhart's idea, like that of Hand, was to cause Hull & Stackpole
                        to relinquish all their holdings for nothing to the banks in order that, under pressure, the
                        latter might carry the stocks he and the others had hypothecated with them until such a time as
                        the company might be organized at a profit. At the same time he was intensely resentful against
                        Cowperwood for having by any fluke of circumstance reaped so large a profit as he must have
                        done. Plainly, the present crisis had something to do with him. Schryhart was quick to call up
                        Hand and Arneel, after  Stackpole had gone,
                        suggesting a conference, and together, an hour later, at Arneel's office, they
                        foregathered along with Merrill to discuss this new and very interesting development. As a
                        matter of fact, during the course of the afternoon all of these gentlemen had been growing more
                        and more uneasy. Not that between them they were not eminently capable of taking care of their
                        own losses, but the sympathetic effect of such a failure as this (twenty million dollars), to
                        say nothing of its reaction upon the honor of themselves and the city as a financial center, was
                        a most unsatisfactory if not disastrous thing to contemplate, and now this matter of
                        Cowperwood's having gained handsomely by it all was added to their misery. Both Hand
                        and Arneel growled in opposition when they heard, and Merrill meditated, as he usually did, on
                        the wonder of Cowperwood's subtlety. He could not help liking him.
                    There is a sort of municipal pride latent in the bosoms of most members of a really
                        thriving community which often comes to the surface under the most trying circumstances. These
                        four men were by no means an exception to this rule. Messrs Schryhart, Hand, Arneel, and rill
                        were concerned as to the good name of Chicago and their united standing in the eyes of Eastern
                        financiers. It was a sad blow to them to think that the one great enterprise they had recently
                        engineereda foil to some of the immense affairs which had recently had their geneses in New York
                        and elsewhereshould have come to so untimely an end. Chicago finance really should not be put to
                        shame in this fashion if it could be avoided. So that when Mr. Schryhart arrived, quite warm and
                        disturbed, and related in detail what he had just learned, his friends listened to him with
                        eager and wary ears.
                    It was now between five and six o'clock in the afternoon and still blazing
                        outside, though the walls of the buildings on the opposite side of the street were a cool gray,
                        picked out with pools of black shadow. A newsboy's strident voice was heard here and
                        there calling an extra, mingled with the sound of homing feet and
                        street-carsCowperwood's street-cars.
                    "I'll tell you what it is," said Schryhart, finally.
                        "It seems to me we have stood just about enough of this man's  beggarly interference. I'll admit that
                        neither Hull nor Stackpole had any right to go to him. They laid themselves and us open to just
                        such a trick as has been worked in this case." Mr. Schryhart was righteously incisive,
                        cold, immaculate, waspish. "At the same time," he continued, "any
                        other moneyed man of equal standing with ourselves would have had the courtesy to confer with us
                        and give us, or at least our banks, an opportunity for taking over these securities. He would
                        have come to our aid for Chicago's sake. He had no occasion for throwing these stocks
                        on the market, considering the state of things. He knows very well what the effect of their
                        failure will be. The whole city is involved, but it's little he cares. Mr. Stackpole
                        tells me that he had an express understanding with him, or, rather, with the men who it is plain
                        have been representing him, that not a single share of this stock was to be thrown on the
                        market. As it is, I venture to say not a single share of it is to be found anywhere in any of
                        their safes. I can sympathize to a certain extent with poor Stackpole. His position, of course,
                        was very trying. But there is no excusenone m the worldfor such a stroke of trickery on
                        Cowperwood's part. It's just as we've known all alongthe man is
                        nothing but a wrecker. We certainly ought to find some method of ending his career here if
                        possible."
                    Mr. Schryhart kicked out his well-rounded legs, adjusted his soft-roll collar, and
                        smoothed his short, crisp, wiry, now blackish-gray mustache. His black eyes flashed an undying
                        hate.
                    At this point Mr. Arneel, with a cogency of reasoning which did not at the moment
                        appear on the surface, inquired: "Do any of you happen to know anything in particular
                        about the state of Mr. Cowperwood's finances at present? Of course we know of the Lake
                        Street 'L' and the Northwestern. I hear he's building a house in New
                        York, and I presume that's drawing on him somewhat. I know he has four hundred thousand
                        dollars in loans from the Chicago Central; but what else has he?"
                    "Well, there's the two hundred thousand he owes the Prairie
                        National," piped up Schryhart, promptly. "From time to time I've
                        heard of several other sums that escape my mind just now."
                    
                    Mr. Merrill, a diplomatic mouse of a mangray, Parisian, dandifiedwas twisting in his
                        large chair, surveying the others with shrewd though somewhat propitiatory eyes. In spite of his
                        old grudge against Cowperwood because of the latter's refusal to favor him in the
                        matter of running street-car lines past his store, he had always been interested in the man as a
                        spectacle. He really disliked the thought of plotting to injure Cowperwood. Just the same, he
                        felt it incumbent to play his part in such a council as this. "My financial agent, Mr.
                        Hill, loaned him several hundred thousand not long ago," he volunteered, a little
                        doubtfully. "I presume he has many other outstanding obligations."
                    Mr. Hand stirred irritably.
                    "Well, he's owing the Third National and the Lake City as much if
                        not more," he commented. "I know where there are five hundred thousand dollars
                        of his loans that haven't been mentioned here. Colonel Ballinger has two hundred
                        thousand. He must owe Anthony Ewer all of that. He owes the Drovers and Traders all of one
                        hundred and fifty thousand."
                    On the basis of these suggestions Arneel made a mental calculation, and found that
                        Cowperwood was indebted apparently to the tune of about three million dollars on call, if not
                        more.
                    "I haven't all the facts," he said, at last, slowly and
                        distinctly. "If we could talk with some of the presidents of our banks to-night, we
                        should probably find that there are other items of which we do not know. I do not like to be
                        severe on any one, but our own situation is serious. Unless something is done to-night Hull
                        & Stackpole will certainly fail in the morning. We are, of course, obligated to the
                        various banks for our loans, and we are m honor bound to do all we can for them. The good name
                        of Chicago and its rank as a banking center is to a certain extent involved. As I have already
                        told Mr. Stackpole and Mr. Hull, I personally have gone as far as I can in this matter. I
                        suppose it is the same with each of you. The only other resources we have under the
                        circumstances are the banks, and they, as I understand it, are pretty much involved with stock
                        on hypothecation. I know at least that this is true of the Lake City and the Douglas
                        Trust."
                    
                    "It's true of nearly all of them," said Hand. Both
                        Schryhart and Merrill nodded assent.
                    "We are not obligated to Mr. Cowperwood for anything so far as I
                        know," continued Mr. Arneel, after a slight but somewhat portentous pause. "As
                        Mr. Schryhart has suggested here to-day, he seems to have a tendency to interfere and disturb on
                        every occasion. Apparently he stands obligated to the various banks in the sums we have
                        mentioned. Why shouldn't his loans be called? It would help strengthen the local banks,
                        and possibly permit them to aid in meeting this situation for us. While he might be in a
                        position to retaliate, I doubt it."
                    Mr. Arneel had no personal opposition to Cowperwood none, at least, of a deep-seated
                        character. At the same time Hand, Merrill, and Schryhart were his friends. In him, they felt,
                        centered the financial leadership of the city. The rise of Cowperwood, his Napoleonic airs,
                        threatened this. As Mr. Arneel talked he never raised his eyes from the desk where he was
                        sitting. He merely drummed solemnly on the surface with his fingers. I he others contemplated
                        him a little tensely, catching quite clearly the drift of his proposal.
                    "An excellent ideaexcellent!" exclaimed Schryhart. "I will
                        join in any programme that looks to the elimination of this man. The present situation may be
                        just what is needed to accomplish this, Anyhow, it may help to solve our difficulty. If so, it
                        will certainly be a case of good coming out of evil."
                    "I see no reason why these loans should not be called," Hand
                        commented. "I'm willing to meet the situation on that basis."
                    "And I have no particular objection," said Merrill. "I
                        think, however, it would be only fair to give as much notice as possible of any decision we may
                        reach," he added.
                    "Why not send for the various bankers now," suggested Schryhart,
                        "and find out exactly where he stands, and how much it will take to carry Hull
                        & Stackpole? Then we can inform Mr. Cowperwood of what we propose to do."
                    To this proposition Mr. Hand nodded an assent, at the same time consulting a large,
                        heavily engraved gold watch of the most ponderous and inartistic design. "I
                        think,"  he said, "that we have
                        found the solution to this situation at last. I suggest that we get Candish and Kramer, of the
                        stock-exchange" (he was referring to the president and secretary, respectively, of that
                        organization), "and Simmons, of the Douglas Trust. We should soon be able to tell what
                        we can do."
                    The library of Mr. Arneel's home was fixed upon as the most suitable
                        rendezvous. Telephones were forthwith set ringing and messengers and telegrams despatched in
                        order that the subsidiary financial luminaries and the watch-dogs of the various local
                        treasuries might come and, as it were, put their seal on this secret decision, which it was
                        obviously presumed no minor official or luminary would have the temerity to gainsay.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIX
                    MOUNT OLYMPUS
                    BY eight o'clock, at which hour the conference was set, the principal
                        financial personages of Chicago were truly in a great turmoil. Messrs. Hand, Schryhart, Merrill,
                        and Arneel were personally interested! What would you? As early as seven-thirty there was a
                        pattering of horses' hoofs and a jingle of harness, as splendid open carriages were
                        drawn up in front of various exclusive mansions and a bank president, or a director at least,
                        issued forth at the call of one of the big quadrumvirate to journey to the home of Mr. Arneel.
                        Such interesting figures as Samuel Blackman, once president of the old Chicago Gas Company, and
                        now a director of the Prairie National; Hudson Baker, once president of the West Chicago Gas
                        Company, and now a director of the Chicago Central National; Ormonde Ricketts, publisher of the
                            Chronicle and director or the Third National; Nome Simms,
                        president of the Douglas Trust Company; Walter Rysam Cotton, once an active wholesale
                        coffee-broker, but now a director principally of various institutions, were all en route. It was
                        a procession of solemn, superior, thoughtful gentle-making the correct impression. For, be it
                        known, of all men none are so proud or vainglorious over the minor trappings of materialism as
                        those who have but newly achieved them. It is so essential apparently to fulfil in manner and
                        air, if not in fact, the principle of "presence" which befits the r$oCle of
                        conservator of society and leader of wealth. Every one of those named and many moreto the number
                        of thirtyrode thus loftily forth in the hot, dry evening air and were soon at the door of the
                        large and comfortable home of Mr. Timothy Arneel.
                    
                    That important personage was not as yet present to receive his guests, and neither
                        were Messrs. Schryhart, Hand, nor Merrill. It would not be fitting for such eminent potentates
                        to receive their underlings in person on such an occasion. At the hour appointed these four were
                        still in their respective offices, perfecting separately the details of the plan upon which they
                        had agreed and which, with a show of informality and of momentary inspiration, they would later
                        present. For the time being their guests had to make the best of their absence. Drinks and
                        liquors were served, but these were of small comfort. A rack provided for straw hats was for
                        some reason not used, one preferring to retain his own head-gear. Against the background of wood
                        panneling and the chairs covered with summer linen the company presented galleryesque variety
                        and interest. Messrs. Hull and Stackpole, the corpses or victims over which this serious
                        gathering were about to sit in state, were not actually present within the room, though they
                        were within call in another part of the house, where, if necessary, they could be reached and
                        their advice or explanations heard. This presumably brilliant assemblage of the financial weight
                        and intelligence of the city appeared as solemn as owls under the pressure of a rumored
                        impending financial crisis. Before Arneel's appearance there was a perfect buzz of
                        minor financial gossip, such as:
                    "You don't say?"
                    "Is it as serious as that?"
                    "I knew things were pretty shaky, but I was by no means certain how
                        shaky."
                    "Fortunately, we are not carrying much of that stock." (This from
                        one of the few really happy bankers.)
                    "This is a rather serious occasion, isn't it?"
                    "You don't tell me!"
                    "Dear, dear!"
                    Never a word in criticism from any source of either Hand or Schryhart or Arneel or
                        Merrill, though the fact that they were back of the pool was well known. Somehow they were
                        looked upon as benefactors who were calling this conference with a view of saving others from
                        disaster rather than for the purpose of assisting themselves. Such phrases as, "Oh, Mr.
                        Hand! Marvelous man! Marvelous!"  or,
                        "Mr. Schryhartvery ablevery able indeed!" or, "You may depend on it
                        these men are not going to allow anything serious to overtake the affairs of the city at this
                        time," were heard on every hand. The fact that immense quantities of cash or paper were
                        involved in behalf of one or other of these four was secretly admitted by one banker to another.
                        No rumor that Cowperwood or his friends had been profiting or were in any way involved had come
                        to any one presentnot as yet.
                    At eight-thirty exactly Mr. Arneel first ambled in quite informally, Hand, Schryhart,
                        and Merrill appearing separately very shortly after. Rubbing their hands and mopping their faces
                        with their handkerchiefs, they looked about them, making an attempt to appear as nonchalant and
                        cheerful as possible under such trying circumstances. There were many old acquaintances and
                        friends to greet, inquiries to be made as to the health of wives and children. Mr. Arneel, clad
                        in yellowish linen, with a white silk shirt of lavender stripe, and carrying a palm-leaf fan,
                        seemed quite refreshed; his fine expanse or neck and bosom looked most paternal, and even
                        Abrahamesque. His round, glistening pate exuded beads of moisture. Mr. Schryhart, on the
                        contrary, for all the heat, appeared quite hard and solid, as though he might be carved out of
                        some dark wood. Mr. Hand, much of Mr. Arneel's type, but more solid and apparently more
                        vigorous, had donned for the occasion a blue serge coat with trousers of an almost gaudy, bright
                        stripe. His ruddy, archaic face was at once encouraging and serious, as though he were saying,
                        "My dear children, this is very trying, but we will do the best we can." Mr.
                        Merrill was as cool and ornate and lazy as it was possible for a great merchant to be. To one
                        person and another he extended a cool, soft hand, nodding and smiling half the time in silence.
                        To Mr. Arneel as the foremost citizen and the one of largest wealth fell the duty (by all agreed
                        as most appropriate) of assuming the chairwhich in this case was an especially large one at the
                        head of the table.
                    There was a slight stir as he finally, at the suggestion of Schryhart, went forward
                        and sat down. The other great men found seats.
                    "Well, gentlemen," began Mr. Arneel, dryly (he had a  low, husky voice), "I'll be as
                        brief as I can. This is a very unusual occasion which brings us together. I suppose you all know
                        how it is with Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole. American Match is likely to come down with a crash in
                        the morning if something very radical isn't done to-night. It is at the suggestion of a
                        number of men and banks that this meeting is called."
                    Mr. Arneel had an informal, t$ecte-$aG-t$ecte way of speaking as if he were sitting
                        on a chaise-longue with one other person.
                    "The failure," he went on, firmly, "if it comes, as I hope
                        it won't, will make a lot of trouble for a number of banks and private individuals
                        which we would like to avoid, I am sure. The principal creditors of American Match are our local
                        banks and some private individuals who have loaned money on the stock. I have a list of them
                        here, along with the amounts for which they are responsible. It is in the neighborhood of ten
                        millions of dollars."
                    Mr. Arneel, with the unconscious arrogance of wealth and power, did not trouble to
                        explain how he got the list, neither did he show the slightest perturbation. He merely fished
                        down in one pocket in a heavy way and produced it, spreading it out on the table before him. The
                        company wondered whose names and what amounts were down, and whether it was his intention to
                        read it.
                    "Now," resumed Mr. Arneel, seriously, "I want to say here
                        that Mr. Stackpole, Mr. Merrill, Mr. Hand, and myself have been to a certain extent investors in
                        this stock, and up to this afternoon we felt it to be our duty, not so much to ourselves as to
                        the various banks which have accepted this stock as collateral and to the city at large, to
                        sustain it as much as possible. We believed in Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole. We might have gone
                        still further if there had been any hope that a number of others could carry the stock without
                        seriously injuring themselves; but in view of recent developments we know that this
                        can't be done. For some time Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole and the various bank officers
                        have had reason to think that some one has been cutting the ground from under them, and now they
                        know it. It is because of this, and because only concerted action on the part of banks and
                        individuals  can save the financial credit of the
                        city at this time, that this meeting is called. Stocks are going to continue to be thrown on the
                        market. It is possible that Hull & Stack-pole may have to liquidate in some way. One
                        thing is certain: unless a large sum of money is gathered to meet the claim against them in the
                        morning, they will fail. The trouble is due indirectly, of course, to this silver agitation; but
                        it is due a great deal more, we believe, to a piece of local sharp dealing which has just come
                        to light, and which has really been the cause of putting the financial community in the tight
                        place where it stands to-night. I might as well speak plainly as to this matter. It is the work
                        of one man Mr. Cowperwood. American Match might have pulled through and the city been have
                        spared the danger which now confronts it if Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole had not made the mistake
                        of going to this man."
                    Mr. Arneel paused, and Mr. Norrie Simms, more excitable than most by temperament,
                        chose to exclaim, bitterly: "The wrecker!" A stir of interest passed over the
                        others accompanied by murmurs of disapproval.
                    "The moment he got the stock in his hands as collateral," continued
                        Mr. Arneel, solemnly, "and in the face of an agreement not to throw a share on the
                        market, he has been unloading steadily. That is what has been happening yesterday and to-day.
                        Over fifteen thousand shares of this stock, which cannot very well be traced to outside sources,
                        have been thrown on the market, and we have every reason to believe that all of it comes from
                        the same place. The result is that American Match, and Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole, are on the
                        verge of collapse."
                    "The scoundrel!" repeated Mr. Norrie Simms, bitterly, almost rising
                        to his feet. The Douglas Trust Company was heavily interested in American Match.
                    "What an outrage!" commented Mr. Lawrence, of the Prairie National,
                        which stood to lose at least three hundred thousand dollars in shrinkage of values on
                        hypothecated stock alone. To this bank that Cowperwood owed at least three hundred thousand
                        dollars on call.
                    "Depend on it to find his devil's hoof in it somewhere,"
                        observed Jordan Jules, who had never been able to make any satisfactory progress in his fight on
                        Cowperwood in  connection with the city council and
                        the development of the Chicago General Company. The Chicago Central, of which he was now a
                        director, was one of the banks from which Cowperwood had judiciously borrowed.
                    "It's a pity he should be allowed to go on bedeviling the town in
                        this fashion," observed Mr. Sunderland Sledd to his neighbor, Mr. Duane Kingsland, who
                        was a director in a bank controlled by Mr. Hand.
                    The latter, as well as Schryhart, observed with satisfaction the effect of Mr.
                        Arneel's words on the company.
                    Mr. Arneel now again fished in his pocket laboriously, and drew forth a second slip
                        of paper which he spread out before him. "This is a time when frankness must
                        prevail," he went on, solemnly, "if anything is to be done, and I am in hopes
                        that we can do something. I have here a memorandum of some of the loans which the local banks
                        have made to Mr. Cowperwood and which are still standing on their books. I want to know if there
                        are any further loans of which any of you happen to know and which you are willing to mention at
                        this time."
                    He looked solemnly around.
                    Immediately several loans were mentioned by Mr. Cotton and Mr. Osgood which had not
                        been heard of previously. The company was very well aware, in a general way, of what was coming.
                    "Well, gentlemen," continued Mr. Arneel, "I have, previous
                        to this meeting, consulted with a number of our leading men. They agree with me that, since so
                        many banks are in need of funds to carry this situation, and since there is no particular
                        obligation on anybody's part to look after the interests of Mr. Cowperwood, it might be
                        just as well if these loans of his, which are outstanding, were called and the money used to aid
                        the banks and the men who have been behind Mr. Hull and Mr. Stackpole. I have no personal
                        feeling against Mr. Cowperwoodthat is, he has never done me any direct injurybut naturally I
                        cannot approve of the course he has seen fit to take in this case. Now, if there isn't
                        money available from some source to enable you gentlemen to turn around, there will be a number
                        of other failures. Runs may be started on a halfdozen  banks. Time is the essence of a situation like this, and we haven't any
                        time."
                    Mr. Arneel paused and looked around. A slight buzz of conversation sprang up, mostly
                        bitter and destructive criticism of Cowperwood.
                    "It would be only just if he could be made to pay for this,"
                        commented Mr. Blackman to Mr. Sledd. "He has been allowed to play fast and loose long
                        enough. It is time some one called a halt on him."
                    "Well, it looks to me as though it would be done tonight," Mr.
                        Sledd returned.
                    Meanwhile Mr. Schryhart was again rising to his feet. "I think," he
                        was saying, "if there is no objection on any one's part, Mr. Arneel, as
                        chairman, might call for a formal expression of opinion from the different gentlemen present
                        which will be on record as the sense of this meeting."
                    At this point Mr. Kingsland, a tall, whiskered gentleman, arose to inquire exactly
                        how it came that Cowperwood had secured these stocks, and whether those present were absolutely
                        sure that the stock has been coming from him or from his friends. "I would not like to
                        think we were doing any man an injustice," he concluded.
                    In reply to this Mr. Schryhart called in Mr. Stackpole to corroborate him. Some of
                        the stocks had been positively identified. Stackpole related the full story, which somehow
                        seemed to electrify the company, so intense was the feeling against Cowperwood.
                    "It is amazing that men should be permitted to do things like this and still
                        hold up their heads in the business world," said one, Mr. Vasto, president of the Third
                        National, to his neighbor.
                    "I should think there would be no difficulty in securing united action in a
                        case of this kind," said Mr. Lawrence, president of the Prairie National, who was very
                        much beholden to Hand for past and present favors.
                    "Here is a case," put in Schryhart, who was merely waiting for an
                        opportunity to explain further, "in which an unexpected political situation develops an
                        unexpected an unexpected crisis, and this man uses it for his personal aggrandizement and to the
                        detriment of every other person. The welfare  of the
                        city is nothing to him. The stability of the very banks he borrows from is nothing. He is a
                        pariah, and if this opportunity to show him what we think of him and his methods is not used we
                        will be doing less than our duty to the city and to one another."
                    "Gentlemen," said Mr. Arneel, finally, after Cowperwood's
                        different loans had been carefully tabulated, "don't you think it would be
                        wise to send for Mr. Cowperwood and state to him directly the decision we have reached and the
                        reasons for it? I presume all of us would agree that he should be notified."
                    "I think he should be notified," said Mr. Merrill, who saw behind
                        this smooth talk the iron club that was being brandished.
                    Both Hand and Schryhart looked at each other and Arneel while they politely waited
                        for some one else to make a suggestion. When no one ventured, Hand, who was hoping this would
                        prove a ripping blow to Cowperwood, remarked, viciously:
                    "He might as well be toldif we can reach him. It's sufficient
                        notice, in my judgement. He might as well understand that this is the united action of the
                        leading financial forces of the city."
                    "Quite so," added Mr. Schryhart. "It is time he
                        understood, I think, what the moneyed men of this community think of him and his crooked
                        ways."
                    A murmur of approval ran around the room.
                    "Very well," said Mr. Arneel. "Anson, you know him better
                        than some of the rest of us. Perhaps you had better see if you can get him on the telephone and
                        ask him to call. Tell him that we are here in executive session."
                    "I think he might take it more seriously if you spoke to him,
                        Timothy," replied Merrill.
                    Arneel, being always a man of action, arose and left the room, seeking a telephone
                        which was located in a small workroom or office den on the same floor, where he could talk
                        without fear of being overheard.
                    Sitting in his library on this particular evening, and studying the details of half a
                        dozen art-catalogues which had accumulated during the week, Cowperwood was decidedly  conscious of the probable collapse of Amercian Match
                        on the morrow. Through his brokers and agents he was well aware that a conference was on at this
                        hour at the house of Arneel. More than once during the day he had seen bankers and brokers who
                        were anxious about possible shrinkage in connection with various hypothecated securities, and
                        to-night his valet had called him to the 'phone half a dozen times to talk with
                        Addison, with Kaffrath, with a broker by the name of Prosser who had succeeded Laughlin in
                        active control of his private speculations, and also, be it said, with several of the banks
                        whose presidents were at this particular conference. If Cowperwood was hated, mistrusted, or
                        feared by the overlords of these institutions, such was by no means the case with the
                        underlings, some of whom, through being merely civil, were hopeful of securing material benefits
                        from him at some future tune. With a feeling of amused satisfaction he was meditating upon how
                        heavily and neatly he had countered on his enemies. Whereas they were speculating as to how to
                        offset their heavy losses on the morrow, he was congratulating himself on corresponding gains.
                        When all his deals should be closed up he would clear within the neighborhood of a million
                        dollars. He did not feel that he had worked Messrs. Hull and Stackpole any great injustice. They
                        were at their wit's end. If he had not seized this opportunity to undercut them
                        Schryhart or Arneel would have done so, anyhow.
                    Mingled with thoughts of a forthcoming financial triumph were others of Berenice
                        Fleming. There are such things as figments of the brain, even in the heads of colossi. He
                        thought of Berenice early and late; he even dreamed of her. He laughed at himself at times for
                        thus being taken in the toils of a mere girlthe strands of her ruddy hairbut working in Chicago
                        these days he was always conscious of her, of what she was doing, of where she was going in the
                        East, of how happy he would be if they were only together, happily mated.
                    It had so happened, unfortunately, that in the course of this summer's stay
                        at Narragansett Berenice, among other diversions, had assumed a certain interest in one
                        Lieutenant  Lawrence Braxmar, U.S.N., whom she found
                        loitering there, and who was then connected with the naval station at Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
                        Cowperwood, coming East at this time for a few days' stay in order to catch another
                        glimpse of his ideal, had been keenly disturbed by the sight of Braxmar and by what his presence
                        might signify. Up to this time he had not given much thought to younger men in connection with
                        her. Engrossed in her personality, he could think of nothing as being able to stand long between
                        him and the fulfilment of his dreams. Berenice must be his. That radiant spirit, enwrapt in so
                        fair an outward seeming, must come to see and rejoice in him. Yet she was so young and airy in
                        her mood that he sometimes wondered. How was he to draw near? What say exactly? What do?
                        Berenice was in no way hypnotized by either his wealth or fame. She was accustomed (she little
                        knew to what extent by his courtesy) to a world more resplendent in its social security than his
                        own. surveying Braxmar keenly upon their first meeting, Cowperwood had liked his face and
                        intelligence, had judged him to be able, but had wondered instantly how he could get rid of him.
                        Viewing Berenice and the Lieutenant as they strolled off together along a summery seaside
                        veranda, he had been for once lonely, and had sighed. These uncertain phases of affection could
                        become very trying at times. He wished he were young again, single.
                    To-night, therefore, this thought was haunting him like a gloomy undertone, when at
                        half past eleven the telephone rang once more, and he heard a low, even voice which said:
                    "Mr. Cowperwood? This is Mr. Arneel."
                    "Yes."
                    "A number of the principal financial men of the city are gathered here at my
                        house this evening. The question of ways and means of preventing a panic to-morrow is up for
                        discussion. As you probably know, Hull & Stackpole are in trouble. Unless something is
                        done for them tonight they will certainly fail to-morrow for twenty million dollars. It
                        isn't so much their failure that we are considering as it is the effect on stocks in
                        general, and on the banks. As I understand it, a number of your loans are involved. The
                        gentlemen here have suggested that I call  you up and
                        ask you to come here, if you will, to help us decide what ought to be done. Something very
                        drastic will have to be decided on before morning."
                    During this speech Cowperwood's brain had been reciprocating like a
                        well-oiled machine.
                    "My loans?" he inquired, suavely. "What have they to do
                        with the situation? I don't owe Hull & Stackpole anything."
                    "Very true. But a number of the banks are carrying securities for you. The
                        idea is that a number of these will have to be calledthe majority of themunless some other way
                        can be devised to-night. We thought you might possibly wish to come and talk it over, and that
                        you might be able to suggest some other way out."
                    "I see," replied Cowperwood, caustically. "The idea is to
                        sacrifice me in order to save Hull & Stackpole. Is that it?"
                    His eyes, quite as though Arneel were before him, emitted malicious sparks.
                    Well, not precisely that," replied Arneel, conservatively; "but
                        something will have to be done. Don't you think you had better come over?"
                    "Very good. I'll come," was the cheerful reply.
                        "It isn't anything that can be discussed over the 'phone,
                        anyhow."
                    He hung up the receiver and called for his runabout. On the way over he thanked the
                        prevision which had caused him, in anticipation of some such attack as this, to set aside in the
                        safety vaults of the Chicago Trust Company several millions in low-interest-bearing government
                        bonds. Now, if worst came to worst, these could be drawn on and hypothecated. These men should
                        see at last how powerful he was and how secure.
                    As he entered the home of Arneel he was a picturesque and truly representative figure
                        of his day. In a light summer suit of cream and gray twill, with a straw hat ornamented by a
                        blue-and-white band, and wearing yellow quarter-shoes of the softest leather, he appeared a very
                        model of trig, well-groomed self-sufficiency. As he was ushered into the room he gazed about him
                        in a brave, leonine way.
                    
                    "A fine night for a conference, gentlemen," he said, walking toward
                        a chair indicated by Mr. Arneel. "I must say I never saw so many straw hats at a
                        funeral before. I understand that my obsequies are contemplated. What can I do?"
                    He beamed in a genial, sufficient way, which in any one else would have brought a
                        smile to the faces of the company. In him it was an implication of basic power which secretly
                        enraged and envenomed nearly all those present. They merely stirred in a various and wholly
                        antagonistic way. A number of those who knew him personally noddedMerrill, Lawrence, Simms; but
                        there was no friendly light in their eyes.
                    "Well, gentlemen?" he inquired, after a moment or two of ominous
                        silence, observing Hand's averted face and Schryhart's eyes, which were lifted
                        ceilingward.
                    "Mr. Cowperwood," began Mr. Arneel, quietly, in no way disturbed by
                        Cowperwood's jaunty air, "as I told you over the 'phone, this meeting
                        is called to avert, if possible, what is likely to be a very serious panic in the morning. Hull
                        & Stackpole are on the verge of failure. The outstanding loans are considerablein the
                        neighborhood of seven or eight million here in Chicago. On the other hand, there are assets in
                        the shape of American Match stocks and other properties sufficient to carry them for a while
                        longer if the banks can only continue their loans. As you know, we are all facing a falling
                        market, and the banks are short of ready money. Something has to be done. We have canvassed the
                        situation here to-night as thoroughly as possible, and the general conclusion is that your loans
                        are among the most available assets which can be reached quickly. Mr. Schryhart, Mr. Merrill,
                        Mr. Hand, and myself have done all we can thus far to avert a calamity, but we find that some
                        one with whom Hull & Stackpole have been hypothecating stocks has been feeding them out
                        in order to break the market. We shall know how to avoid that in the future" (and he
                        looked hard at Cowperwood), "but the thing at present is immediate cash, and your loans
                        are the largest and the most available. Do you think you can find the means to pay them back m
                        the morning?
                    Arneel blinked his keen, blue eyes solemnly, while the  rest, like a pack of genial but hungry wolves, sat and surveyed this
                        apparently whole but now condemned scapegoat and victim. Cowperwood, who was keenly alive to the
                        spirit of the company, looked blandly and fearlessly around. On his knee he held his blue-banded
                        straw hat neatly balanced on one edge. His full mustache curled upward in a jaunty, arrogant
                        way.
                    "I can meet my loans," he replied, easily. "But I would
                        not advise you or any of the gentlemen present to call them." His voice, for all its
                        lightness, had an ominous ring.
                    "Why not?" inquired Hand, grimly and heavily, turning squarely
                        about and facing him. "It doesn't appear that you have extended any particular
                        courtesy to Hull or Stackpole." His face was red and scowling.
                    "Because," replied Cowperwood, smiling, and ignoring the reference
                        to his trick, "I know why this meeting was called. I know that these gentlemen here,
                        who are not saying a word, are mere catspaws and rubber stamps for you and Mr. Schryhart and Mr.
                        Arneel and Mr. Merrill. I know how you four gentlemen have been gambling in this stock, and what
                        your probable losses are, and that it is to save yourselves from further loss that you have
                        decided to make me the scapegoat. I want to tell you here" and he got up, so that in
                        his full stature he loomed over the room" you can't do it. You can't
                        make me your catspaw to pull your chestnuts out of the fire, and no rubber-stamp conference can
                        make any such attempt successful. If you want to know what to do, I'll tell youclose
                        the Chicago Stock Exchange to-morrow morning and keep it closed. Then let Hull &
                        Stackpole fail, or if not you four put up the money to carry them. If you can't, let
                        your banks do it. If you open the day by calling a single one of my loans before I am ready to
                        pay it, I'll gut every bank from here to the river. You'll have panic, all the
                        panic you want. Good evening, gentlemen."
                    He drew out his watch, glanced at it, and quickly walked to the door, putting on his
                        hat as he went. As he bustled jauntily down the wide interior staircase, preceded by a footman
                        to open the door, a murmur of dissatisfaction arose in the room he had just left.
                    
                    "The wrecker!" re-exclaimed Norrie Simms, angrily, astounded at
                        this demonstration of defiance.
                    "The scoundrel!" declared Mr. Blackman. "Where does he get
                        the wealth to talk like that?"
                    "Gentlemen," said Mr. Arneel, stung to the quick by this amazing
                        effrontery, and yet made cautious by the blazing wrath of Cowperwood, "it is useless to
                        debate this question in anger. Mr. Cowperwood evidently refers to loans which can be controlled
                        in his favor, and of which I for one know nothing. I do not see what can be done until we do
                        know. Perhaps some of you can tell us what they are."
                    But no one could, and after due calculation advice was borrowed of caution. The loans
                        of Frank Algernon Cowperwood were not called.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER L
                    A NEW YORK MANSION
                    THE failure of American Match the next morning was one of those events that stirred
                        the city and the nation and lingered in the minds of men for years. At the last moment it was
                        decided that in lieu of calling Cowperwood's loans Hull & Stackpole had best be
                        sacrificed, the stock-exchange closed, and all trading ended. This protected stocks from at
                        least a quotable decline and left the banks free for several days (ten all told) in which to
                        repair their disrupted finances and buttress themselves against the eventual facts. Naturally,
                        the minor speculators throughout the citythose who had expected to make a fortune out of this
                        crashraged and complained, but, being faced by an adamantine exchange directorate, a subservient
                        press, and the alliance between the big bankers and the heavy quadrumvirate, there was nothing
                        to be done. The respective bank presidents talked solemnly of "a mere temporary
                        flurry," Hand, Schryhart, Merrill, and Arneel went still further into their pockets to
                        protect their interests, and Cowperwood, triumphant, was roundly denounced by the smaller fry as
                        a "bucaneer," a "pirate," a "wolf"indeed,
                        any opprobrious term that came into their minds. The larger men face squarely the fact that here
                        was an enemy worthy of their steel. Would he master them? Was he already the dominant money
                        power in Chicago? Could he thus flaunt their helplessness and his superiority in their eyes and
                        before their underlings and go unwhipped?
                    "I must give in!" Hosmer Hand had declared to Arneel and Schryhart,
                        at the close of the Arneel house conference and as they stood in consultation after the others
                        had departed. "We seem to be beaten to-night, but I, for one,  am not through yet. He has won to-night, but he won't win
                        always. This is a fight to a finish between me and him. The rest of you can stay in or drop out,
                        just as you wish."
                    "Hear, hear!" exclaimed Schryhart, laying a fervently sympathetic
                        hand on his shoulder. "Every dollar that I have is at your service, Hosmer. This fellow
                        can't win eventually. I'm with you to the end."
                    Arneel, walking with Merrill and the others to the door, was silent and dour. He had
                        been cavalierly affronted by a man who, but a few short years before, he would have considered a
                        mere underling. Here was Cowperwood bearding the lion in his den, dictating terms to the
                        principal financial figures of the city, standing up trig and resolute, smiling in their faces
                        and telling them in so many words to go to the devil. Mr. Arneel glowered under lowering brows,
                        but what could he do? "We must see," he said to the others, "what
                        time will bring. Just now there is nothing much to do. This crisis has been too sudden. You say
                        you are not through with him, Hosmer, and neither am I. But we must wait. We shall have to break
                        him politically in this city, and I am confident that in the end we can do it." The
                        others were grateful for his courage even though to-morrow he and they must part with millions
                        to protect themselves and the banks. For the first time Merrill concluded that he would have to
                        fight Cowperwood openly from now on, though even yet he admired his courage. "But he is
                        too defiant, too cavalier! A very lion of a man," he said to himself. "A man
                        with the heart of a Numidian lion."
                    It was true.
                    From this day on for a little while, and because there was no immediate political
                        contest in sight, there was comparative peace in Chicago, although it more resembled an armed
                        camp operating under the terms of some agreed neutrality than it did anything else. Schryhart,
                        Hand, Arneel, and Merrill were quietly watchful. Cowperwood's project of worsting him
                        politically in one or all three of the succeeding elections which were due to occur every two
                        years  between now and 1903, at which time his
                        franchises would have to be renewed. As in the past they had made it necessary for him to work
                        against them through bribery and perjury, so in ensuing struggles they might render it more and
                        more difficult for him or his agents to suborn the men elected to office. The subservient and
                        venal council-men whom he now controlled might be replaced by men who, if no more honest, would
                        be more loyal to the enemy, thus blocking the extension of his franchises. Yet upon a renewal
                        period of at least twenty and preferably fifty years depended the fulfilment of all the colossal
                        things he had begunhis art-collection, his new mansion, his growing prestige as a financier, his
                        rehabilitation socially, and the celebration of his triumph by a union, morganatic or otherwise,
                        with some one who would be worthy to share his throne.
                    It is curious how that first and most potent tendency of the human mind, ambition,
                        becomes finally dominating. Here was Cowperwood at fifty-seven, rich beyond the wildest dream of
                        the average man, celebrated in a local and in some respects in a national way, who was
                        nevertheless feeling that by no means had his true aims been achieved. He was not yet
                        all-powerful as were divers Eastern magnates, or even these four or five magnificently moneyed
                        men here in Chicago who, by plodding thought and labor in many dreary fields such as Cowperwood
                        himself frequently scorned, had reaped tremendous and uncontended profits. "How was it,
                        he asked himself, that his path had almost constantly been strewn with stormy opposition and
                        threatened calamity? Was it due to his private immorality? Other fol-de-rol theory imposed from
                        the top, was generally so. Was it not rather due to his inability to control without dominating
                        personallywithout standing out fully and clearly in the sight of all men? Sometimes he thought
                        so. The humdrum conventional world could not brook his daring, his insouciance, his constant
                        desire to call a spade a spade. His genial sufficiency was a taunt and a mockery to many. The
                        hard implication of his eye was dreaded by the weaker as fire is feared by a burnt child.
                        Dissembling enough, he was not sufficiently oily and make-believe,  Well, come what might, he did not need to be or mean to be so, and there the
                        game must lie; but he had not by any means attained the height of his ambition. He was not yet
                        looked upon as a money prince. He could not rank as yet with the magnates of the Eastthe serried
                        Sequoias of Wall Street. Until he could stand with these men, until he could have a magnificent
                        mansion, acknowledged as such by all, until he could have a world-famous gallery, Berenice,
                        millionswhat did it avail?
                    The character of Cowperwood's New York house, which proved one of the
                        central achievements of his later years, was one of the those flowerings-out of disposition
                        which eventuate in the case of men quite as in that of plants. After the passing of the years
                        neither a modified Gothic (such as his Philadelphia house had been), nor a conventionalized
                        Norman-French, after the style of his Michigan Avenue home, seemed suitable to him. Only the
                        Italian palaces of medieval or Renaissance origin which he had seen abroad now appealed to him
                        as examples of what a stately residence should be. He was really seeking something which should
                        not only reflect his private tastes as to a home, but should have the more enduring qualities of
                        a palace or even a museum, which might stand as a monument to his memory. After much searching
                        Cowperwood had found an architect in New York who suited him entirelyone Raymond Pyne, rake,
                        raconteur, man-about-townwho was still first and foremost an artist, with an eye for the
                        exceptional and the perfect. These two spent days and days together meditating on the details of
                        this home museum. An immense gallery was to occupy the west wing of the house and be devoted to
                        pictures; a second gallery should occupy the south wing and be given over to sculpture and large
                        whorls of art; and these two wings were to swing as an L around the house proper, the latter
                        standing in the angle between them. The whole structure was to be of a rich brownstone, heavily
                        carved. For its interior decoration the richest woods, silks, tapestries, glass, and marbles
                        were canvassed. The main rooms were t surround a great central court with a colonnade of pink
                        veined alabaster, and in the center there would be an electrically lighted fountain of alabaster
                        and silver. Occupying the  east wall a series of
                        hanging baskets of orchids, or of other fresh flowers, were to give a splendid glow of color, a
                        morning-sun effect, to this richly artificial realm. One chambera lounge on the second floorwas
                        to be entirely lined with thin-cut transparent marble of a peach-blow hue, the lighting coming
                        only through these walls and from without. Here in a perpetual atmosphere of sunrise were to be
                        racks for exotic birds, a trellis of vines, stone benches, a central pool of glistening water,
                        and an echo of music. Pyne assured him that after his death this room would make an excellent
                        chamber in which to exhibit porcelains, jades, ivories, and other small objects of value.
                    Cowperwood was now actually transferring his possessions to New York, and had
                        persuaded Aileen to accompany him. Fine compound of tact and chicane that he was, he had the
                        effrontery to assure her that they could here create a happier social life. His present plan was
                        to pretend a marital contentment which had no basis solely in order to make this transition
                        period as undisturbed as possible. Subsequently he might get a divorce, or he might make an
                        arrangement whereby his life would be rendered happy outside the social pale.
                    Of all this Berenice Fleming knew nothing at all. At the same time the building of
                        this splendid mansion eventually awakened her to an understanding of the spirit of art that
                        occupied the center of Cowperwood's iron personality and caused her to take a real
                        interest in him. Before this she had looked him as a kind of Western interloper coming East and
                        taking advantage of her mother's good nature to scrape a little social courtesy. Now,
                        however, all that Mrs. Carter had been telling her of his personality and achievements was
                        becoming crystallized into a glittering chain of facts. This house, the papers were fond of
                        repeating, would be a jewel of rare workmanship. Obviously the Cowperwoods were going to try to
                        enter society. "What a pity it is," Mrs. Carter once said to Berenice, that he
                        couldn't have gotten a divorce from his wife before he began all this. I am so afraid
                        they will never be received. He would be if he only had the right woman; but she " Mrs.
                        Carter, who had once seen Aileen in Chicago, shook her head doubtfully. "She is  not the type," was her comment.
                        "She has neither the air nor the understanding."
                    "If he is so unhappy with her," observed Berenice, thoughtfully,
                        "why doesn't he leave her? She can be happy without him. It is so sillythis
                        cat-and-dog existence. Still I suppose she values the position he gives her," she
                        added, "since she isn't so interesting herself."
                    "I suppose," said Mrs. Carter, "that he married her twenty
                        years ago, when he was a very different man from what he is to-day. She is not exactly coarse,
                        but not clever? enough. She cannot do what he would like to see done. I hate to see mismatings
                        of this kind, and yet they are so common. I do hope, Bevy, that when you marry it will be some
                        one with whom you can get along, though I do believe I would rather see you unhappy than
                        poor."
                    This was delivered as an early breakfast peroration in Central Park South, with the
                        morning sun glittering on one of the nearest park lakes. Bevy, in spring-green and old-gold, was
                        studying the social notes in one of the morning papers.
                    "I think I should prefer to be unhappy with wealth than to be without
                        it," she said, idly, without looking up.
                    Her mother surveyed her admiringly, conscious of her imperious mood. What was to
                        become of her? Would she marry well? Would she marry in time? Thus far no breath of the wretched
                        days in Louisville had affected Berenice. Most of those with whom Mrs. Carter had found herself
                        compelled to deal would be kind enough to keep her secret. But there were others. How near she
                        had been to drifting on the rocks when Cowperwood had appeared!
                    "After all," observed Berenice, thoughtfully, "Mr.
                        Cowperwood isn't a mere money-grabber, is he her? So many of these Western moneyed men
                        are so dull."
                    "My dear," exclaimed Mrs. Carter, who by now had become a confirmed
                        satellite of her secret protector, "you don't understand him at all. He is a
                        very astonishing man, I tell you. The world is certain to hear a lot more of Frank Cowperwood
                        before he die. You can say what you please, but some one has to make the money in the first
                        place. It's little enough that good breeding does for you  in poverty. I know, because I've seen plenty of our
                        friends come down."
                    In the new house, on a scaffold one day, a famous sculptor and his assistants were at
                        work on a Greek frieze which represented dancing nymphs linked together by looped wreaths.
                        Berencice and her mother happened to be passing. They stopped to look, and Cowperwood joined
                        them. Berenice, with his old, gay air, "If they had copied you they would have done
                        better."
                    "How charming of you!" she replied, with her cool. In spite of her
                        earlier prejudices she knew now that he and fixed on things beautiful as on a shrine.
                    He merely looked at her.
                    "This house can be little more than a museum to me" he remarked,
                        simply, when her mother was out of hearing; "but I shall build it as perfectly as I
                        can. Perhaps others may enjoy it if I do not."
                    She looked at him musingly, understandingly, and he smiled. She realized, of course,
                        that he was trying to convey to her that he was lonely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LI
                    THE REVIVAL OF HATTIE STARR
                    ENGROSSED in the pleasures and entertainments which Cowperwood's money was
                        providing, Berenice had until recently given very little thought to her future. Cowperwood had
                        been most liberal. "She is young," he once said to Mrs. Carter, with an air of
                        disinterested liberality, when they were talking about Berenice and her future. "She is
                        an exquisite. Let her have her day. If she marries well she can pay you back, or me. But give
                        her all she needs now." And he signed checks with the air of a gardener who is growing
                        a wondrous orchid.
                    The truth was that Mrs. Carter had become so fond of Berenice as an object of beauty,
                        a prospective grande dame, that she would have sold her soul to see her well placed; and as the
                        money to provide the dresses, setting, equipage had to come from somewhere, she had placed her
                        spirit in subjection to Cowperwood and pretended not to see the compromising position in which
                        she was placing all that was near and dear to her.
                    "Oh, you' re so good, she more than once said to him, a mist of
                        gratitude commingled with joy in her eyes. "I would never have believed it of any one.
                        But Bevy"
                    "An esthete is an esthete," Cowperwood replied. "They are
                        rare enough. I like to see a spirit as fine as hers move untroubled. She will make her
                        way."
                    Seeing Lieutenant Braxmar in the foreground of Berenice's affairs, Mrs.
                        Carter was foolish enough to harp on the matter in a friendly, ingratiating way. Braxmar was
                        really interesting after his fashion. He was young, tall, muscular, and handsome, a graceful
                        dancer; but, better yet, he represented in his moods lineage, social position, a number of the
                        things which engaged Berenice most. He  was
                        intelligent, serious, with a kind of social grace which was gay, courteous, wistful. Berenice
                        met him first at a local dance, where a new step was being practised "dancing in the
                        barn," as it was calledand so airily did he tread it with her in his handsome uniform
                        that she was half smitten for the moment.
                    "You dance delightfully," she said. "Is this a part of
                        your life on the ocean wave?"
                    "Deep-sea-going dancing," he replied, with a heavenly smile.
                        "All battles are accompanied by balls, don't you know?"
                    "Oh, what a wretched jest!" she replied. "It's
                        unbelievably bad."
                    "Not for me," I can make much worse ones."
                    "Not for me," she replied, "I can't stand
                        them." And they went prancing on. Afterward he came and sat by her; they walked in the
                        moonlight, he told her of naval life, his Southern home and connections.
                    Mrs. Carter, seeing him with Berenice, and having been introduced, observed the next
                        morning, "I like your Lieutenant, Bevy. I know some of his relatives well. They come
                        from the Carolinas. He's sure to come into money. The whole family is wealthy. Do you
                        think might be interested in you?"
                    "Oh, possibly;yes, I presume so," replied Berenice, airily, for she
                        did not take too kindly to this evidence of parental interest. She preferred to see life drift
                        on in some nebulous way at present, and this was bringing matters too close to home.
                        "Still, he has so much machinery on his mind I doubt whether he could take any serious
                        interest in a woman. He is almost more of a battle-ship than he is a man."
                    She made a mouth, and Mrs. Carter commented gaily: "You rogue! All the men
                        take an interest in you. You don't think you could care for him, then, at
                        all?"
                    "Why, mother, what a question! Why do you ask? Is it so essential that I
                        should?"
                    "Oh, not that exactly," replied Mrs. Carter, sweetly, bracing
                        herself for a word which she felt incumbent upon her; "but think of his position. He
                        comes of such a good family, and he must be heir to a considerable fortune in  his own right. Oh, Bevy, I don't want to
                        hurry or spoil your life in any way, but do keep in mind the future. With your tastes and
                        instincts money is so essential, and unless you marry it I don't know where you are to
                        get it your father was so thoughtless, and Rolfe's was even worse."
                    She sighed.
                    Berenice, for almost the first time in her life, took solemn heed of this thought.
                        She pondered whether she could endure Braxmar as a life partner, follow him around the world,
                        perhaps retransferring her abode to the South; but she could not make up her mind. This
                        suggestion on the part of her mother rather poisoned the cup for her. To tell the truth, in this
                        hour of doubt her thoughts turned vaguely to Cowperwood as one who represented in his avid way
                        more of the things she truly desired. She remembered his wealth, his plaint that his new house
                        could be only a museum, the manner in which he approached her with looks and voiceless
                        suggestions. But he was old and marriedout of the question, thereforeand Braxmar was young and
                        charming. To think her mother should have been so tactless as to suggest the necessity for
                        consideration in his case! It almost spoiled him for her. And was their financial state, then,
                        as uncertain as her mother indicated?
                    In this crisis some of her previous social experiences became significant. For
                        instance, only a few weeks previous to her meeting with Braxmar she had been visiting at the
                        country estate of the Corscaden Batjers, at Redding Hills, Long Island, and had been sitting
                        with her hostess in the morning room of Hillcrest, which commanded a lovely though distant view
                        of Long Island sound.
                    Mrs. Fredericka Batjer was a chestnut blonde, fair, cool, quiescenta type out of
                        Dutch art. Clad in a morning gown of gray and silver, her hair piled in a Psyche knot, she had
                        in her lap on this occasion a Java basket filled with some attempt at Norwegian needlework.
                    "Bevy," she said, "you remember Kilmer Duelma,
                        don't you? Wasn't he at the Haggertys' last summer when you were
                        there?"
                    Berenice, who was seated at a small Chippendale writing-desk penning letters, glanced
                        up, her mind visioning for the  moment the youth in
                        question. Kilmer Duelmatall, stocky, swaggering, his clothes the loose, nonchalant perfection of
                        the season, his walk ambling, studied, lackadaisical, aimless, his color high, his cheeks full,
                        his eyes a little vacuous, his mind acquiescing in a sort of genial, inconsequential way to
                        every query and thought that was put to him. The younger of the two sons of Auguste Duelma,
                        banker, promoter, multimillionaire, he would come into a fortune estimated roughly at between
                        six and eight millions. At the Haggertys' the year before he had hung about her in an
                        aimless fashion.
                    Mrs Batjer studied Berenice curiously for a moment, then returned to her needlework.
                        "I've asked him down over this week-end," she suggested.
                    "Yes?" queried Berenice, sweetly. "Are there
                        others?"
                    "Of course," assented Mrs. Batjer, remotely. "Kilmer
                        doesn't interest you, I presume."
                    Berenice smiled enigmatically.
                    "You remember Clarissa Faulkner, don't you Bevy?" pursued
                        Mrs. Batjer. "She married Romulus Garrison."
                    "Perfectly. Where is she now?"
                    "They have leased the Ch$aCteau Brieul at Ars for the winter. Romulus is a
                        fool, but Clarissa is so clever. You know she writes that she is holding a veritable court there
                        this season. Half the smart set of Pans and London are dropping in. It is so charming for her to
                        be able to do those things now. Poor dear! At one time I was quite troubled over her."
                    Without giving any outward sign Berenice did not fail to gather the full import of
                        the analogy. It was all true. One must begin early to take thought of one's life. She
                        suffered a disturbing sense of duty. Kilmer Duelma arrived at noon Friday with six types of
                        bags, a special valet, and a preposterous enthusiasm for polo and hunting (diseases lately
                        acquired from a hunting set in the Berkshires). A cleverly contrived compliment supposed to have
                        emanated from Miss Fleming and conveyed to him with tact by Mrs. Batjer brought him ambling into
                        Berenice's presence suggesting a Sunday drive to Saddle Rock.
                    "Haw! haw! You know, I'm delighted to see you again. Haw! haw!
                        It's been an age since I've seen the Haggertys,  We missed you after you left. Haw! haw! I did, you know. Since I saw you I
                        have taken up polothree ponies with me all the time nowhaw! haw!a regular stable
                        nearly."
                    Berenice stove valiantly to retain a serene interest. Duty was in her mind, the
                        Ch$aCteau Brieul, the winter court of Clarissa Garrison, some first premonitions of the flight
                        of time. Yet the drive was a bore, conversation a burden, the struggle to respond titanic,
                        impossible. When Monday came she fled, leaving three days between that and a week-end at
                        Morristown. Mrs. Batjerwho read straws most capablysighed. Her own Corscaden was not much beyond
                        his money, but life must be lived and the ambitious must inherit wealth or gather it wisely.
                        Some impossible scheming silly would soon collect Duelma, and thenShe considered Berenice a
                        little difficult.
                    Berenice could not help piecing together the memory of this incident with her
                        mother's recent appeal in behalf of Lieutenant Braxmar. A great, cloying, disturbing,
                        disintegrating factor in her life was revealed by the dawning discovery that she and her mother
                        were without much money, that aside from her lineage she was in a certain sense an interloper in
                        society. There were never rumors of great wealth in connection with herno flattering whispers or
                        public notices regarding her station as an heiress. All the smug minor manikins of the social
                        world were on the qui vive for some cotton-headed doll of a girl with an endless bank-account.
                        By nature sybaritic, an intense lover of art fabrics, of stately functions, of power and success
                        in every form, she had been dreaming all this while of a great soul-freedom and art-freedom
                        under some such circumstances as the greatest individual wealth of the day, and only that, could
                        provide. Simultaneously she had vaguely cherished the idea that if she ever found some one who
                        was truly fond of her, and whom she could love or even admire intenselysome one who needed her
                        in a deep, sincere wayshe would give herself freely and gladly. Yet who could it be? She had
                        been charmed by Braxmar, but her keen, analytic intelligence required some one harder, more
                        vivid, more ruthless, some one who would appeal to her as an immense force. Yet she must be
                        conservative, she must play what cards she had to win.
                    
                    During his summer visit at Narragansett Cowperwood had not been long disturbed by the
                        presence of Braxmar, for, having received special orders, the latter was compelled to hurry away
                        to Hampton Roads. But the following November, forsaking temporarily his difficult affairs in
                        Chicago for New York and the Carter apartment in Central Park South, Cowperwood again
                        encountered the Lieutenant, who arrived one evening brilliantly arrayed in full official regalia
                        in order to escort Berenice to a ball. A high military cap surmounting his handsome face, his
                        epaulets gleaming in gold, the lapels of his cape thrown back to reveal a handsome red silken
                        lining, his sword clanking by his side, he seemed a veritable singing flame of youth.
                        Cowperwood, caught in the drift of circumstanceage, unsuitableness, the flaring
                        counter-attractions of romance and vigorfairly writhed in pain.
                    Berenice was so beautiful in a storm of diaphanous clinging garments. He stared at
                        them from an adjacent room, where he pretended to be reading, and sighed. Alas, how was his
                        cunning and foresighteven histo overcome the drift of life itself? How was he to make himself
                        appealing to youth? Braxmar had the years, the color, the bearing. Berenice seemed to-night, as
                        she prepared to leave, to be fairly seething with youth, hope, gaiety. He arose after a few
                        moments and, giving business as an excuse, hurried away. But it was only to his own rooms in a
                        neighboring hotel and meditate. The logic of the ordinary man under such circumstances,
                        compounded of the age-old notions of chivalry, self-sacrifice, duty to higher impulses, and the
                        like, would have been to step aside in favor of youth, to give convention its day, and retire in
                        favor of morality and virtue. Cowperwood saw things in no such moralistic or altruistic light.
                        "I satisfy myself," had ever been his motto and under that, however much he
                        might sympathize with Berenice in love or with love itself, he was not content to withdraw until
                        he was sure that the end of hope for him had really come. There had been moments between him and
                        had really come. There had been moments between him and Berenicelittle approximations toward
                        intimacy which had led him to believe that by no means was she seriously opposed to him. At the
                        same time this business of the Lieutenant, so Mrs. Carter confided to him a little  later, was not to be regarded lightly. While
                        Berenice might not care so much, obviously Braxmar did.
                    "Ever since he has been away he has been storming her with
                        letters," she remarked to Cowperwood, one afternoon. "I don't think
                        he is the kind that can be made to take no for an answer."
                    "A very successful kind," commented Cowperwood, dryly.
                    Mrs. Carter was eager for advice in the matter. Braxmar was a man of parts. She knew
                        his connections. He would inherit at least six hundred thousand dollars at his father's
                        death, if not more. What about her Louisville record? Supposing that should come out later?
                        Would it not be wise for Berenice to marry, and have the danger over with?
                    "It is a problem, isn't It?" observed Cowperwood, calmly.
                        "Are you sure she's in love?"
                    "Oh, I wouldn't say that, but such things so easily turn into love.
                        I have never believed that Berenice could be swept off her feet by any oneshe is so
                        thoughtfulbut she knows she has her own way to make in the world, and Mr. Braxmar is certainly
                        eligible. I know his cousins, the Clifford Porters, very well."
                    Cowperwood knitted his brows. He was sick to his soul with this worry over Berenice.
                        He felt that he must have her, even at the cost of inflicting upon her a serious social injury.
                        Better that she should surmount it with him than escape it with another. It so happened,
                        however, that the final grim necessity of acting on any such idea was spared him.
                    Imagine a dining-room in one of the principal hotels of New York, the hour midnight,
                        after an evening at the opera, to which Cowperwood, as host, had invited Berenice, Lieutenant
                        Braxmar, and Mrs. Carter He was now playing the r$oCle of disinterested host and avuncular
                        mentor His attitude toward Berenice, meditating, as he was, a course which should be destructive
                        to Braxmar, was gentle, courteous, serenely thoughtful. Like a true Mephistopheles he was
                        waiting, surveying Mrs. Carter and Berenice, who were seated in front chairs clad in such exotic
                        draperies as opera-goers affectMrs. Carter in pale-lemon silk and diamonds; Berenice in purple
                        and old-rose, with a jeweled  comb in her hair. The
                        Lieutenant in his dazzling uniform smiled and talked blandly, complimented the singers,
                        whispered pleasant nothings to Berenice, descanted at odd moments to Cowperwood on naval
                        personages who happened to be present. Coming out of the opera and driving through blowy, windy
                        streets to the Waldorf, they took the table reserved for them, and Cowperwood, after consulting
                        with regard to the dishes and ordering the wine, went back reminiscently to the music, which had
                        been "La Boh$eGrae." the death of Mimi and the grief of Rodolph, as voiced by
                        the splendid melodies of Puccini, interested him.
                    "That makeshift studio world may have no connection with the genuine
                        professional artist, but it's very representative of life," he remarked.
                    "I don't know, I'm sure," said Braxmar,
                        seriously. "All I know of Bohemia is what I have read in booksTrilby, for instance, and
                        "He could think of no other, and stopped. "I suppose it is that way in
                        Paris."
                    He looked at Berenice for confirmation and to win a smile.
                    Owing to her mobile and sympathetic disposition, she had during the opera been swept
                        from period to period by surges of beauty too gay or pathetic for words, but clearly
                        comprehended of the spirit. Once when she had been lost in dreamy contemplation, her hands
                        folded on her knees, her eyes fixed on the stage, both Braxmar and Cowperwood had studied her
                        parted lips and fine profile with common impulses of emotion and enthusiasm. Realizing after the
                        mood was gone that they had been watching her, Berenice had continued the pose for a moment,
                        then had waked as from a dream with a sigh. This incident now came back to her as well as her
                        feeling in regard to the opera generally.
                    "It is very beautiful" she said; "I do not know what to
                        say. People are like that, of course. It is so much better than just dull comfort. Life is
                        really finest when it's tragic, anyhow."
                    She looked at Cowperwood, who was studying her; then at Braxmar, who saw himself for
                        the moment on the captain's bridge of a battle-ship commanding in time of action. To
                        Cowperwood came back many of his principal moments of difficulty. Surely his life had been
                        sufficiently dramatic to satisfy her.
                    
                    "I don't think I care so much for it," interposed Mrs.
                        Carter. "One gets tired of sad happenings. We have enough drama, in real
                        life."
                    Cowperwood and Braxmar smiled faintly. Berenice looked contemplatively away. The
                        crush of diners, the clink of china and glass, the bustling to and fro of waiters, and the
                        strumming of the orchestra diverted her somewhat, as did the nods and smiles of some entering
                        guests who recognized Braxmar and herself, but not Cowperwood.
                    Suddenly from a neighboring door, opening from the men's caf$eA and grill,
                        there appeared the semi-intoxicated figure of an ostensibly swagger society man, his clothing
                        somewhat awry, an opera-coat hanging loosely from one shoulder, a crush-opera-hat dangling in
                        one hand, his eyes a little bloodshot, his under lip protruding slightly and defiantly, and his
                        whole visage proclaiming that devil-may-care, superior, and malicious aspect which the drunken
                        rake does not so much assume as achieve. He looked sullenly, uncertainly about; then, perceiving
                        Cowperwood and his party, made his way thither in the half-determined, half-inconsequential
                        fashion of one not quite sound after his cups. When he was directly opposite
                        Cowperwood's tablethe cynosure of a number of eyeshe suddenly paused as if in
                        recognition, and, coming over, laid a genial and yet condescending hand on Mrs.
                        Carter's bare shoulder.
                    "Why, hello, Hattie!" he called, leeringly and jeeringly.
                        "What are you doing down here in New York? You haven't given up your business
                        in Louisville, have you, eh, old sport? Say, lemme tell you something. I haven't had a
                        single decent girl since you leftnot one. If you open a house down here, let me know, will
                        you?"
                    He bent over her smirkingly and patronizingly the while he made as if to rummage in
                        his white waistcoat pocket for a card. At the same moment Cowperwood and Braxmar, realizing
                        quite clearly the import of his words, were on their feet. While Mrs. Carter was pulling and
                        struggling back from the stranger, Braxmar's hand (he being the nearest) was on him,
                        and the head waiter and two assistants had appeared.
                    "What is the trouble here? What has he done?" they demanded.
                    
                    Meanwhile the intruder, leering contentiously at them all, was exclaiming in very
                        audible tones: "Take your hands off. Who are you? What the devil have you got to do
                        with this? Don't you think I know what I'm about? She knows medon't
                        you, Hattie? That's swellestever run in Louisville. What do you people want to be so
                        upset about? I know what I'm doing. She knows me."
                    He not only protested, but contested, and with some vehemence. Cowperwood, Braxmar,
                        and the waiters forming a cordon, he was shoved and hustled out into the lobby and the outer
                        entranceway, and an officer was called.
                    This man should be arrested," Cowperwood protested, vigorously, when the
                        latter appeared. "He has grossly insulted lady guests of mine. He is drunk and
                        disorderly, and I wish to make that charge. Here is my card. Will you let me know where to
                        come?" He handed it over, while Braxmar, scrutinizing the stranger with military care,
                        added: "I should like to thrash you within an inch of your life. If you
                        weren't drunk I would. If you are a gentle-to talk to you later." He leaned
                        over and presented a cold, hard face to that of Mr. Beales Chadsey, of Louisville, Kentucky.
                    "Tha's all right, Captain," leered Chadsey, mockingly.
                        "I got a card. No harm done. Here you are. You c'n see me any time you
                        wantHotel Buckingham, Fifth Avenue and Fiftieth Street. I got a right to speak to anybody I
                        please, where I please, when I please. See?"
                    He fumbled and protested while the officer stood by ready to take him in charge. Not
                        finding a card, he added:
                    "Tha's all right. Write it down. Beales Chadsey, Hotel Buckingham,
                        or Louisville, Kentucky. See me any time you want to. Tha's Hattie Starr. She knows me.
                        I couldn't make a mistake about hernot once m a million. Many's the night I
                        spent in her house."
                    Braxmar was quite ready to lunge at him had not the officer intervened.
                    Back in the dining-room Berenice and her mother were sitting, the latter quite
                        flustered, pale, distrait, horribly  taken abackby
                        far too much distressed for any convincing measure of deception.
                    "Why, the very idea!" she was saying. "That dreadful man!
                        How terrible! I never saw him before in my life."
                    Berenice, disturbed and nonplussed, was thinking of the familiar and lecherous leer
                        with which the stranger had addressed her motherthe horror, the shame of it. Could even a
                        drunken man, if utterly mistaken, be so defiant, so persistent, so willing to explain? What
                        shameful things had she been hearing?
                    "Come, mother," she said, gently, and with dignity; "never
                        mind, it is all right. We can go home at once. You will feel better when you are out of
                        here."
                    She called a waiter and asked him to say to the gentlemen that they had gone to the
                        women's dressing-room. She pushed an intervening chair out of the way and gave her
                        mother her arm.
                    "To think I should be so insulted," Mrs. Carter mumbled on,
                        "here in a great hotel, in the presence of Lieutenant Braxmar and Mr. Cowperwood! This
                        is too dreadful. Well, I never."
                    She half whimpered as she walked; and Berenice, surveying the room with dignity, a
                        lofty superiority in her face, led solemnly forth, a strange, lacerating pain about her heart.
                        What was at the bottom of these shameful statements? Why should this drunken roisterer have
                        selected her mother, of all other women in the dining-room, for the object of these outrageous
                        remarks? Why should her mother be stricken, so utterly collapsed, if there were not some truth
                        in what he had said? It was very strange, very sad, very grim, very horrible. What would that
                        gossiping, scandal-loving world of which she knew so much say to a scene like this? For the
                        first time in her life the import and horror of social ostracism flashed upon her.
                    The following morning, owing to a visit paid to the Jefferson Market Police Court by
                        Lieutenant Braxmar, where he proposed, if satisfaction were not immediately guaranteed, to empty
                        cold lead into Mr. Beales Chadsey's stomach, the following letter on Buckingham
                        stationery was written and sent to Mrs. Ira George Carter36 Central Park South: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR MADAM:
                                    
                                    Last evening, owing to a drunken debauch, for which I have no
                                        satisfactory or suitable explanation to make, I was the unfortunate occasion of
                                        an outrage upon your feelings and those of your daughter and friends, for which
                                        I wish most humbly to apologize. I cannot tell you how sincerely I regret
                                        whatever I said or did, which I cannot now clearly recall. My mental attitude
                                        when drinking is both contentious and malicious, and while in this mood and
                                        state I was the author of statements which I know to be wholly unfounded. In my
                                        drunken stupor I mistook you for a certain notorious woman of Louisvillewhy, I
                                        have not the slightest idea. For this wholly shameful and outrageous conduct I
                                        sincerely ask your pardonbeg your forgiveness. I do not Know what amends I can
                                        make, but anything you may wish to suggest I shall gladly do. In the mean while
                                        I hope you accept this letter in the spirit in which it is written and as a
                                        slight attempt at recompense which I know can never fully be made.
                                    Very sincerely,
                                        BEALES CHADSEY.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    At the same time Lieutenant Braxmar was fully aware before this letter was written or
                        sent that the charges implied against Mrs. Carter were only too well founded. Beales Chadsey had
                        said drunk what twenty men in all sobriety and even the police at Louisville would corroborate.
                        Chadsey had insisted on making this clear to Braxmar before writing the letter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LII
                    BEHIND THE ARRAS
                    BERENICE, perusing the apology from Beales Chadsey, which her mothervery much fagged
                        and wearyhanded her the next morning, thought that it read like the overnight gallantry of some
                        one who was seeking to make amends without changing his point of view. Mrs. Carter was too
                        obviously self-conscious. She protested too much. Berenice knew that she could find out for
                        herself if she chose, but would she choose? The thought sickened her, and yet who was she to
                        judge too severely?
                    Cowperwood came in bright and early to put as good a face on the matter as he could.
                        He explained how he and Braxmer had gone to the police station to make a charge; how Chadsey,
                        sobered by arrest, had abandoned his bravado and humbly apologized. When viewing the letter
                        handed him by Mrs. Carter he exclaimed:
                    "Oh yes. He was very glad to promise to write that if we would let him off.
                        Braxmar seemed to think it was necessary that he should. I wanted the judge to impose a fine and
                        let it go at that. He was drunk, and that's all there was to it."
                    He assumed a very unknowing air when in the presence of Berenice and her mother, but
                        when alone with the latter his manner changed completely.
                    "Brazen it out," he commanded. "It doesn't amount
                        to anything. Braxmar doesn't believe that this man really knows anything. This letter
                        is enough to convince Berenice. Put a good face on it; more depends on your manner than on
                        anything else. You're much too upset. That won't do at all; you'll
                        tell the whole story that way."
                    At the same time he privately regarded this incident as a fine windfall of chance:in
                        all likelihood the one thing  which would serve to
                        scare the Lieutenant away. Outwardly, however, he demanded effrontery, assumption; and Mrs.
                        Carter was somewhat cheered, but when she was alone she cried. Berenice, coming upon her
                        accidentally and finding her eyes wet, exclaimed:
                    "Oh, mother, please don't be foolish. How can you this way? We had
                        better go up in the country and a little while it you are so unstrung.
                    Mrs. Carter protested that it was merely nervous reaction, but to Berenice it seemed
                        that where there was so much smoke there must be some fire.
                    Her manner in the aftermath toward Braxmar was gracious, but remote. He called the
                        next day to say how sorry he was, and to ask her to a new diversion, She was sweet, but distant.
                        In so far as she was concerned it was plain that the Beales Chadsey incident was closed, but she
                        did not accept his invitation.
                    "Mother and i are planning to go to the country for a few days,"
                        she observed, genially. "I can't say just when we shall return, but if you are
                        still here we shall meet, no doubt. You must be sure and come to see us." She turned to
                        an east court-window, where the morning sun was gleaming on some flowers in a window-box, and
                        began to pinch off a dead leaf here and there.
                    Braxmar, full of the tradition of American romance, captivated by her vibrant charm,
                        her poise and superiority under the circumstances, her obvious readiness to dismiss him, was
                        overcome, as the human mind frequently is, by a riddle of the spirit, a chemical reaction as
                        mysterious to its victim as to one who is its witness. Stepping forward with a motion that was
                        at once gallant, reverent, eager, unconscious, he exclaimed:
                    "Berenice! Miss Fleming! Please don't send me away like this.
                        Don't leave me. It isn't anything I have done, is it? I am mad about you. I
                        can't bear to think that anything that has happened could make any difference between
                        you and me. I haven't had the courage to tell with you before, but I want to tell you
                        now. I have been in love with you form the very first night I saw you. You are such a wonderful
                        girl! I don't feel that I deserve you, but I love you. I love you with all the honor
                        and force in  me. I admire and respect you. Whatever
                        may or may not be true, it is all one and the same to me. Be my wife, will you? Marry me,
                        please! Oh, I'm not fit to be the lacer of your shoes, but I have position and
                        I'll make a name for myself, I hope. Oh, Berenice!" He extended his arms in a
                        dramatic fashion, not outward, but downward, stiff and straight, and declared! "I don t
                        know what I shall do without you. Is there no hope for me at all?"
                    An artist in all the graces of sexhistrionic, plastic, many-facetedBerenice debated
                        for the fraction of a minute what she should do and say. She did not love the Lieutenant as he
                        loved her by any means, and somehow this discovery concerning her mother shamed her pride,
                        suggesting an obligation to save herself in one form or another, which she resented bitterly.
                        She was sorry for his tactless proposal at this time, although she knew well enough the
                        innocence and virtue of the emotion from which it sprung.
                    "Really, Mr. Braxmar," she replied, turning on him with solemn
                        eyes, "you mustn't ask me to decide that now. I know how you feel.
                        I'm afraid, though, that I may have been a little misleading in my manner. I
                        didn't mean to be. I'm quite sure you'd better forget your interest
                        in me for the present anyhow. I could only make up my mind in one way if you should insist. I
                        should have to ask you to forget me entirely. I wonder if you can see how I feelhow it hurts me
                        to say this?"
                    She paused, perfectly poised, yet quite moved really, as charming a figure as one
                        would have wished to seepart Greek, part Orientalcontemplative, calculating.
                    In that moment, for the first time, Braxmar realized that he was talking to some one
                        whom he could not comprehend really. She was strangely self-contained, enigmatic, more beautiful
                        perhaps because more remote than he had ever seen her before. In a strange flash this young
                        American saw the isles of Greece, Cytherea, the lost Atlantis, Cyprus, and its Paphian shrine.
                        His eyes burned with a strange, comprehending luster; his color, at first high, went pale.
                    "I can't believe you don't care for me at all, Miss
                        Berenice," he went on, quite strainedly. "I felt you did care about me. But
                        here," he added, all at once, with a real, if summoned, military force, "I
                        won't bother you.
                    
                    You do understand me. You know now I feel. I won t change. Can't we be
                        friends, anyhow?"
                    He held out his hand, and she took it, feeling now that she was putting an end to
                        what might have been an idyllic romance.
                    "Of Course we can," she said. "I hope I shall see you
                        again soon.
                    After he was gone she walked into the adjoining room and sat down in a wicker chair,
                        putting her elbows on her knees and resting her chin in her hands. What a d$eAnouement to a thing so innocent, so charming! And now he was gone. She
                        would not see him any more, would not want to see him not much, anyhow. Life had sad, even ugly
                        facts. Oh yes, yes, and she was beginning to perceive them clearly.
                    Some two days later, when Berenice had brooded and brooded until she could endure it
                        no longer, she finally went to Mrs. Carter and said: "Mother, why don't you
                        tell me all about this Louisville matter so that I may really know? I can see something is
                        worrying you. Can't you trust me? I am no longer a child by any means and I am your
                        daughter. It may help me to straighten things out, to know what to do."
                    Mrs. Carter, who had always played a game of lofty though loving motherhood, was
                        greatly taken aback by this courageous attitude. She flushed and chilled a little; then decided
                        to lie.
                    "I tell you there was nothing at all," she declared, nervously and
                        pettishly. "It is all an awful mistake. I wish that dreadful man could be punished
                        severely for what he said to me. To be outraged and insulted this way before my own
                        child!"
                    "Mother," questioned Berenice, fixing her with those cool, blue
                        eyes, "why don't you tell me all about Louisville? You and I
                        shouldn't have things between us. Maybe I can help you."
                    All at once Mrs. Carter, realizing that her daughter was no longer a child nor a mere
                        social butterfly, but a woman superior, cool, sympathetic, with intuitions much deeper than her
                        own, sank into a heavily flowered wing-chair behind her, and, seeking a small
                        pocket-handkerchief with one hand, placed the other over her eyes and began to cry.
                    
                    "I was so driven, Bevy, I didn't know which way to turn. Colonel
                        Gillis suggested it. I wanted to keep you and Rolfe in school and give you a chance. It
                        isn't trueanything that horrible man said. It wasn't anything like what he
                        suggested. Colonel Gillis and several others wanted me to rent them bachelor quarters, and
                        that's the way it all came about. It wasn't my fault; I couldn't help
                        myself, Bevy."
                    "And what about Mr. Cowperwood?" inquired Berenice curiously. She
                        had begun of late to think a great deal about Cowperwood. He was so cool, deep, dynamic, in a
                        way resourceful, like herself.
                    "There's nothing about him," replied Mrs. Carter, looking
                        up defensively. Of all her men friends she best liked Cowperwood. he had never advised her ro
                        evil ways or used her house as a convenience to himself alone. "He never did anything
                        but help me out. He advised me to give up my house in Louisville and come East and devote myself
                        to looking after you and Rolfe. He offered to help me until you two should be able to help
                        yourselves, and so I came. Oh, if I had only not been so foolishso afraid of life! But your
                        father and Mr. Carter just ran through everything."
                    She heaved a deep, heartfelt sigh.
                    "Then we really haven't anything at all, have we, motherproperty or
                        anything else?"
                    Mrs. Carter shook her head, meaning no.
                    "And the money we have been spending is Mr. Cowperwood's?"
                    "Yes."
                    Berenice paused and looked out the window over the wide stretch of park which it
                        commanded. Framed in it like a picture were a small lake, a hill of trees, with a Japanese
                        pagoda effect in the foreground. Over the hill were the yellow towering walls of a great hotel
                        in Central Park West. In the street below could be heard the jingle of street-cars. On a road in
                        the park could be seen a moving line of pleasure vehiclessociety taking an airing in the chill
                        November afternoon.
                    "Poverty, ostracism," she thought. And should she marry rich? Of
                        course, if she could. And whom should  she marry?
                        The Lieutenant? Never. He was really not masterful enough mentally, and he had witnessed her
                        discomfiture. And who, then? Oh, the long line of sillies, light-weights, rakes,
                        ne'er-do-wells, who, combined with sober, prosperous, conventional, muddle-headed oofs,
                        constituted society. Here and there, at far jumps, was a real man, but would he be interested in
                        her if he knew the whole truth about her?
                    "Have you broken with Mr. Braxmar?" asked her mother, curiously,
                        nervously, hopefully, hopelessly.
                    "I haven't seen him since," replied Berenice, lying
                        conservatively. "I don't know whether I shall or not. I want to
                        think." She arose. "But don't you mind, mother. Only I wish we had
                        some other way of living besides being dependent on Mr. Cowperwood."
                    She walked into her boudoir, and before her mirror began to dress for a dinner to
                        which she had been invited. So it was Cowperwood's money that had been sustaining them
                        all during the last few years; and she had been so liberal with his meansso proud, vain,
                        boastful, superior, And he had only fixed her with those inquiring, examining, eyes. Why? But
                        she did not need to ask herself why. She knew now. What a game he had been playing, and what a
                        silly she had been not to see it. Did her mother in any way suspect? She doubted it. This queer,
                        paradoxical, impossible world! The eyes of Cowperwood burned at her as she thought.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIII
                    A DECLARATION OF LOVE
                    FOR the first time in her life Berenice now pondered
                        seriously what she could do. She thought of marriage, but decided that instead of sending for
                        Braxmar or taking up some sickening chase of an individual even less satisfactory it might be
                        advisable to announce in a simple social way to her friends that her mother had lost her money,
                        and that she herself was now compelled to take up some form of employmentthe teaching of dancing
                        perhaps, or the practice of it professionally. She suggested this calmly to her mother one day.
                        Mrs. Carter, who had been long a parasite really, without any constructive monetary notions of
                        real import, was terrified. To think that she and "Bevy," her wonderful
                        daughter, and by reaction her son, should come to anything so humdrum and prosaic as ordinary
                        struggling life, and after all her dreams. She sighed and cried in secret, writing Cowperwood a
                        cautious explanation and asking him to see her privately in New York when he returned.
                    "Don't you think we had best go on a little while longer?"
                        she suggested to Berenice. "It just wrings my heart to think that you, with your
                        qualifications, should have to stoop to giving dancing-lessons. We had better do almost anything
                        for a while yet. You can make a suitable marriage, and then everything will be all right for
                        you. It doesn't matter about me. I can live. But you" Mrs. Carter's
                        strained eyes indicated the misery she felt. Berenice was moved by this affection for her, which
                        she knew to be genuine; but what a fool her mother had been, what a weak reed, indeed, she was
                        to lean upon!
                    Cowperwood, when he conferred with Mrs. Carter, insisted that Berenice was quixotic,
                        nervously awry, to  wish to modify her state, to
                        eschew society and invalidate her wondrous charm by any sort of professional life. By
                        prearrangement with Mrs. Carter he hurried to Pocono at a time when he knew that Bernice was
                        there alone, Ever since the Beales Chadsey incident she had been evading him.
                    When he arrived, as he did about one in the afternoon of a crisp January day, there
                        was snow on the ground, and the surrounding landscape was bathed in a crystalline light that
                        gave back to the eye endless facets of lusterjewel beams that cut space with a flash. The
                        automobile had been introduced by now, and he rode in a touring-car of eighty horse-power that
                        gave back from its dark-brown, varnished surface a lacquered light. In a great fur coat and cap
                        of round, black lamb's-wool he arrived at the door.
                    "Well, Bevy," he exclaimed, pretending not to know of Mrs.
                        Carter's absence, "how are you? How's your mother? Is she
                        in?"
                    Berenice fixed him with her cool, steady-gazing eyes, as frank and incisive as they
                        were daring, and smiled him an equivocal welcome equivocal welcome. She wore a blue denim
                        painter's apron and a palette of many colors glistened under her thumb. She was
                        painting and thinkingthinking being her special occupation these days, and her thoughts had been
                        of Braxmar, Cowperwood, Kilmer Duelma, a half-dozen others, as well as of the stage, dancing,
                        painting. Her life was in a melting-pot, as it were, before her; again it was like a disarranged
                        puzzle, the pieces of which might be fitted together into some interesting picture if she could
                        but endure.
                    "Do come in," she said. "It's cold,
                        isn't it? Well, there's a nice fire here for you. No, mother isn't
                        here. She went down to New York. I should think you might have found her at the apartment. Are
                        you in New York for long?"
                    She was gay, cheerful, genial, but remote. Cowperwood felt the protective gap that
                        lay between him and her. It had always been there. He felt that, even though she might
                        understand and like him, yet there was somethingconvention, ambition, or some deficiency on his
                        partthat was keeping her from him, keeping her eternally distant.  He looked about the room, at the picture she was attempting (a snow-scape, of
                        a view down a slope), at the view itself which he contemplated from the window, at some dancing
                        sketches she had recently executed and hung on the wall for the time beinglovely, short tunic
                        motives. He looked at her in her interesting and becoming painter's apron.
                        "Well, Berenice," he said, "always the artist first. It is your
                        world. You will never escape it. These things are beautiful." He waved an ungloved hand
                        in the direction of a choric line, "It wasn't your mother I came to see,
                        anyhow. It is you. I had such a curious letter from her. She tells me you want to give up
                        society and take to teaching or something of that sort. I came because I wanted to talk to you
                        about that. Don't you think you are acting rather hastily?"
                    He spoke now as though there were some reason entirely disassociated from himself
                        that was impelling him to this interest in her.
                    Berenice, brush in hand, standing by her picture, gave him a look that was cool,
                        curious, defiant, equivocal.
                    "No, I don't think so," she replied, quietly.
                        "You know how things have been, so I may speak quite frankly. I know that
                        mother's intentions were always of the best." Her mouth moved with the
                        faintest touch of sadness. "Her heart, I am afraid, is better than her head. As for
                        your motives, I am satisfied to believe that they have been of the best also. I know that they
                        have been, in factit would be ungenerous of me to suggest anything else."
                        (Cowperwood's fixed eyes, it seemed to her, had moved somewhere in their deepest
                        depths.) "Yet I don't feel we can go on as we have been doing. we have no
                        money of our own. Why shouldn't I do something? What else can I really do?"
                    She paused, and Cowperwood gazed at her, quite still. In her informal, bunchy painter
                        s apron, and with her blue eyes looking out at him from beneath her loose red hair, it seemed to
                        him she was the most perfect thing he had ever known. Such a keen, fixed, enthroned mind. She
                        was so capable, so splendid, and, like his own, her eyes were unafraid. Her spiritual equipoise
                        was undisturbed.
                    "Berenice," he said, quietly, "let me tell you something.
                             You did me the honor just now to speak of my
                        motives giving your mother money as of the best. They were from my own point of viewthe best I
                        have ever known. I will not say what I thought they were in the beginning. I know what they were
                        now. I am going to speak quite frankly with you, if you will let me, as long as we are here
                        together. I don't know whether you know this or nor, but when I first met your mother I
                        only knew by chance that she had a daughter, and it was of no particular interest to me then. I
                        went to her house as the guest or a financial friend of mine who admired her greatly, From the
                        first I myself admired her, because I found her to be a lady to the manner bornshe was
                        interesting. one day I happened to see a photograph of you in her home, and before I could
                        mention it she put it away. Perhaps you recall the one. it is in profiletaken when you were
                        about sixteen."
                    "Yes, I remember," replied Berenice, simplyas quietly as though she
                        were hearing a confession.
                    "Well, that picture interested me intensely. I inquired about you, and
                        learned all I could. After that I saw another picture of you, enlarged, in a Louisville
                        photographer's window I bought it. It is in m office nowmy private officein Chicago.
                        you are standing by a mantelpiece."
                    "I remember," replied Berenice, moved, but uncertain.
                    "Let me tell you a little something about my life, will you? It
                        won't take long. I was born in Philadelphia. My family had always belonged there. I
                        have been in the banking and street-railway business all my life. My first wife was a
                        Presbyterian girl, religious, conventional. She was older than I by six or seven years. I was
                        happy for a whilefive or six years. We had two childrenboth still living. Then I met my present
                        wife. She was younger than myselfat least ten years, and very good-looking. She was in some
                        respects more intelligent than my first wife-at least less conventional, more generous, I
                        thought. i fell in love with her, and when i eventually left Philadelphia I got a divorce and
                        married her. I was greatly in love with her at the time. I thought she was an ideal mate for me,
                        and I still think she has many qualities which make her attractive. but my own ideals in regard
                        to women  have all the time been slowly changing. I
                        have come to see, through various experiments, that she is not the ideal women for me at all.
                        She does not understand me. I don't pretend to understand myself, but it has occurred
                        to me that there might be a woman somewhere who would understand me better than I understand
                        myself, who would see the things that I don't see about myself, and would like me,
                        anyhow. I might as well tell you that I have been a lover of women always. There is just one
                        ideal thing in this world to me, and that is the woman that I would like to have."
                    "I should think it would make it rather difficult for any one woman to
                        discover just which woman you would like to have?" smiled Berenice, whimsically.
                        Cowperwood was unabashed.
                    "It would, I presume, unless she should chance to be the very one woman I am
                        talking about, he replied, impressively.
                    "I should think she would have her work cut out for her under any
                        circumstances," added Berenice, lightly, but with a touch of sympathy in her voice.
                    I am making a confession," replied Cowperwood, seriously and a little
                        heavily. "I am not apologizing for myself. The women I have known would make ideal
                        wives for some men, but not for me. Life has taught me that much. It has changed me."
                    "And do you think the process has stopped by any means?" she
                        replied, quaintly, with that air of superior banter which puzzled, fascinated, defied him.
                    "No, I will not say that. My ideal has become fixed, though, apparently. I
                        have had it for a number of years now. It spoils other matters for me. There is such a thing as
                        an ideal. We do have a pole-star in physics."
                    As he said this Cowperwood realized that for him he was making a very remarkable
                        confession. He had come here primarily to magnetize her and control her judgment. As a matter of
                        fact, it was almost the other way about. She was almost dominating him. Lithe, slender,
                        resourceful, histrionic, she was standing before him making him explain himself, only he did not
                        see her so much in that light as in the way of a large, kindly, mothering intelligence which  could see, feel, and understand. She would know how
                        it was, he felt sure. He could make himself understood if he tried. Whatever he was or had been,
                        she would not take a petty view. She could not. Her answers thus far guaranteed as much.
                    "Yes," she replied, "we do have a pole-star, but you do
                        not seem able to find it. Do you expect to find your ideal in any living woman?"
                    "I have found it," he answered,
                        wondering at the ingenuity and complexity of her mindand of his own, for that matteryof all mind
                        indeed. Deep below deep it lay, staggering him at times by its fathomless reaches. I hope you
                        will take seriously what I am going to say, for it will explain so much. When I began to be
                        interested in your picture I was so because it coincided with the ideal I had in mindthe thing
                        that you think changes swiftly. That was nearly seven years ago. Since then it has never
                        changed. When I saw you at your school on Riverside Drive I was fully convinced. Although I have
                        said nothing, I have remained so. Perhaps you think I had no right to any such feelings. Most
                        people would agree with you. I had them and do have them just the same, and it explains my
                        relation to your mother. When she came to me once in Louisville and told me of her difficulties
                        I was glad to help her for your sake. That has been my reason ever since, although she does not
                        know that. In some respects, Berenice, your mother is a little dull. All this while I have been
                        in love with youintensely so. As you stand there now you seem to me amazingly beautifulthe ideal
                        I have been telling you about. Don't be disturbed; I sha'n't press
                        any attentions on you." (Berenice had moved very slightly. She was concerned as much
                        for him as for herself. His power was so wide, his power so great. She could not help taking him
                        seriously when he was so serious.) "I have done whatever I have done in connection with
                        you and your mother because I have been in love with you and because I wanted you to become the
                        splendid thing I thought you ought to become. You have not known it, but you are the cause of my
                        building the house on Fifth Avenuethe principal reason. I wanted to build something worthy of
                        you. A dream? Certainly. Everything we do seems  to
                        have something of that quality. Its beauty, if there is any, is due to you. I made it beautiful
                        thinking of You."
                    He paused, and Berenice gave no sign. Her first impulse had been to object, but her
                        vanity, her love of art, her love of powerall were touched. At the same time she was curious now
                        as to whether he had merely expected to take her as his mistress or to wait until he could honor
                        her as his wife.
                    "I suppose you are wondering whether I ever expected to marry you or
                        not," he went on, getting the thought out or her mind. "I am no different from
                        many men in that respect, Berenice. I will be frank. I wanted you in any way that I could get
                        you. I was living in the hope all along that you would fall in love with meas I had with you. I
                        hated Braxmar here, not long ago, when he appeared on the scene, but I could never have thought
                        of interfering. I was quite prepared to give you up. I have envied every man I have ever seen
                        with youyoung and old. I have even envied your mother for being so close to you when I could not
                        be. At the same time I have wanted you to have everything that would help you in any way. I did
                        not want to interfere with you in case you found some one whom you could truly love if I knew
                        that you could not love me. There is the whole story outside of anything you may know. But it is
                        not because of this that I came to-day. Not to tell you this."
                    He paused, as if expecting her to say something, though she made no comment beyond a
                        questioning "Yes?"
                    "The thing that I have come to say is that I want you to go on as you were
                        before. Whatever you may think of me or of what I have just told you, I want you to believe that
                        I am sincere and disinterested in what I am telling you now. My dream in connection with you is
                        not quite over. Chance might make me eligible if you should happen to care. But I want you to go
                        on and be happy, regardless of me. I have dreamed, but I dare say it has been a mistake. Hold
                        your head highyou have a right to. Be a lady. Marry any one you really love. I will see that you
                        have a suitable marriage portion. I love you, Berenice, but I will make it a fatherly affection
                        from now  on. When I die I will put you in my will.
                        But go on now in the spirit you were going before. I really can't be happy unless I
                        think you are going to be."
                    He paused, still looking her, believing for the time being what he said. If he should
                        die she would find herself in his will. If she were to go on and socialize and seek she might
                        find some one to love, but also she might think of him more kindly before she did so. What would
                        be the cost of her as a ward compared to his satisfaction and delight in having her at least
                        friendly and sympathetic and being in her good graces and confidence?
                    Berenice, who had always been more or less interested in him, temperamentally biased,
                        indeed, in his direction because of his efficiency, simplicity, directness, and force, was
                        especially touched in this instance by his utter frankness and generosity. She might question
                        his temperamental control over his own sincerity in the future, but she could scarcely question
                        that at present he was sincere. Moreover, his long period of secret love and admiration, the
                        thought of so powerful a man dreaming of her in this fashion, was so flattering. It soothed her
                        troubled vanity and shame in what had gone before. His straightforward confession had a kind of
                        nobility which was electric, moving. She looked at him as he stood there, a little gray about
                        the templesthe most appealing ornament of some men to some womenand for the life of her she
                        could not help being moved by a kind of tenderness, sympathy, mothering affection. Obviously he
                        did need the woman his attitude seemed to show that he needed, some woman of culture, spirit,
                        taste, amorousness; or, at least, he was entitled to dream of her. As he stood before her he
                        seemed a kind of superman, and yet also a bad boyhandsome, powerful, hopeful, not so very much
                        older than herself now, impelled by some blazing internal force which named mm on and on. How
                        much did he really care for her? How much could he? How much could he care for any one? Yet see
                        all he had done to interest her. What did that mean? To say all this? To do all this? Outside
                        was his car brown and radiant in the snow. He was the great Frank Algernon Cowperwood, of
                        Chicago, and he was pleading with her, a mere chit of a girl, to be kind to him, not to put  him out of her life entirely. It touched her
                        intellect, her pride, her fancy.
                    Aloud she said: "I like you better now. I really believe in you. I never
                        did, quite, before. Not that I think I ought to let you spend your money on me or motherI
                        don't. But I admire you. You make me. I understand how it is, I think. I know what your
                        ambitions are. I have always felt that I did, in part. But you mustn't talk to me any
                        more now. I want to think. I want to think over what you have said. I don't know
                        whether I can bring myself to it or not." (She noticed that his eyes seemed to move
                        somehow in their deepest depths again.) "But we won't talk about it any more
                        at present."
                    "But, Berenice," he added, with a real plea in his voice,
                        "I wonder if you do understand. I have been so lonelyI am
                    "Yes, I do," she replied, holding out her hand. "We are
                        going to be friends, whatever happens, from now on, because I really like you. You
                        mustn't ask me to decide about the other, though, to-day. I can't do it. I
                        don't want to. I don't care to."
                    "Not when I would so gladly give you everythingwhen I need it so
                        little?"
                    "Not until I think it out for myself. I don't think so, though.
                        No," she replied, with an air. "There, Mr. Guardian Father," she
                        laughed, pushing his hand away.
                    Cowperwood s heart bounded. He would have given millions to take her close in his
                        arms. As it was he smiled appealingly.
                    "Don't you want to jump in and come to New York with me? If your
                        mother isn't at the apartment you could stop at the Netherland."
                    "No, not to-day. I expect to be in soon. I will let you know, or mother
                        will."
                    He bustled out and into the machine alter a moment ot parley, waving to her over the
                        purpling snow of the evening as his machine tore eastward, planning to make New York by
                        dinner-time. If he could just keep her in this friendly, sympathetic attitude. If he only
                    could!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIV
                    WANTEDFIFTY-YEAR FRANCHISES
                    WHATEVER his momentary satisfaction in her friendly acceptance of his confession, the
                        uncertain attitude of Berenice left Cowperwood about where he was rival, had been eliminated,
                        and Berenice had been made to see him, Cowperwood, in his true colors of love and of service for
                        her. Yet plainly she did not accept them at his own valuation. More than ever was he conscious
                        of the fact that he had fallen in tow of an amazing individual, one who saw life from a distinct
                        and peculiar point of view and who was not to be bent to his will, That fact more than anything
                        elsefor her grace and beauty merely emblazoned itcaused him to fall into a hopeless infatuation.
                        He said to himself over and over, "Well, I can live without her if I must,"
                        but at this stage the mere thought was an actual stab in his vitals. What, after all, was life,
                        wealth, fame, if you couldn't have the woman you wantedlove, that indefinable,
                        unnamable coddling of the spirit which the strongest almost more than the weakest crave? At last
                        he saw clearly, as within a chalice-like nimbus, that the ultimate end of fame, power, vigor was
                        beauty, and that beauty was a compound of the taste, the emotion, the innate culture, passion,
                        and dreams of a woman like Berenice Fleming. That was it: that was IT. And beyond was nothing save crumbling age, darkness, silence.
                    In the mean time, owing to the preliminary activity and tact of his agents and
                        advisers, the Sunday newspapers were vying with one another in describing the wonders of his new
                        house in New Yorkits cost the value of its ground, the wealthy citizens with whom the
                        Cowperwoods would now be neighbors. There were double-column  pictures of Aileen and Cowperwood, with articles indicating them as
                        prospective entertainers on a grand scale who would unquestionably be received because of their
                        tremendous wealth. As a matter of fact, this was purely news-paper gossip and speculation. While
                        the general columns made news and capital of his wealth, special society columns, which dealt
                        with the ultra-fashionable, ignored him entirely. Already the machination of certain Chicago
                        social figures in distributing information as to his past was discernible in the attitude of
                        those clubs, organizations, and even churches, membership in which constitutes a form of social
                        passport to better and higher earthly, if not spiritual, realms. His emissaries were active
                        enough, but soon found that their end was not to be gained in a day. Many were waiting locally,
                        anxious enough to get in, and with social equipments which the Cowperwoods could scarcely boast.
                        After being blackballed by one or two exclusive clubs, seeing his application for a pew at St.
                        Thomas's quietly pigeon-holed for the present, and his invitations declined by several
                        multimillionaires whom he met in the course of commercial transactions, he began to reel that
                        his splendid home, aside from its final purpose as an art-museum, could be of little value.
                    At the same time Cowperwood's financial genius was constantly being rewarded
                        by many new phases of materiality, chiefly by an offensive and defensive alliance he was now
                        able to engineer between himself and the house of Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb & Co. Seeing
                        the iron manner m which he had managed to wrest victory out of defeat after the first seriously
                        contested election, these gentlemen had experienced a change of heart and announced that they
                        would now gladly help finance any new enterprise which Cowperwood might undertake. Among many
                        other financiers, they had heard his triumph in connection with the failure of American Match.
                    "Dot must be a right cleffer man, dot Cowperwood," Mr. Gotloeb told
                        several of his partners, rubbing his hands and smiling. "I shouldt like to meet
                        him."
                    And so Cowperwood was maneuvered into the giant banking office where Mr. Gotloeb
                        extended a genial hand.
                    
                    "I hear much of Chicawkgo," he explained, in his semi-German,
                        semi-Hebraic dialect, "but almozd more uff you. Are you goink to swallow up all de
                        street-railwaiss unt elefated roats out dere?"
                    "Why? Would you like me to leave a few for you?"
                    Not dot exzagly, but I might not mint sharink in some uff dem wit you."
                    "You can join with me at any time, Mr. Gotloeb, as you must know. The door
                        is always very, very wide open for you."
                    I musd look into dot some more. It loogs very promising to me. I am gladt to meet
                        you."
                    The great external element in Cowperwood's financial successand one which he
                        himself had foreseen from the very beginningwas the fact that Chicago was developing constantly.
                        What had been when he arrived a soggy, messy plain strewn with shanties, ragged sidewalks, a
                        higgledy-piggledy business heart, was now truly an astounding metropolis which had passed the
                        million mark in population and which stretched proud and strong over the greater part of Cook
                        County. Where once had been a meager, makeshift financial section, with here and there only a
                        splendid business building or hotel or a public office of some kind, there were now ca$nTon-like
                        streets lined with fifteen and even eighteen story office buildings, from the upper stories of
                        which as from watch-towers, might be surveyed the vast expanding regions of simple home life
                        below. Farther out were districts of mansions, parks, pleasure resorts, great worlds of
                        train-yards and manufacturing areas. In the commercial heart of this world Frank Algernon
                        Cowperwood had truly become a figure of giant significance. How wonderful it is that men grow
                        until, like colossi, they bestride the world, or, like banyan-trees, they drop roots from every
                        branch and are themselves a foresta forest of intricate commerical life, of which a thousand
                        material aspects are the evidence. His street-railway properties were like a netthe parasite
                        Gold Threadlinked together as they were, and draining two of the three important
                        "sides" of the city.
                    In 1886, when he had first secured a foothold, they had  been capitalized at between six and seven millions (every device for issuing
                        a dollar on real property having been exhausted). To-day, under his management, they were
                        capitalized at between sixty and seventy millions. The majority of the stock issued and sold was
                        subject to a financial device whereby twenty per cent. controlled eighty per cent., Cowperwood
                        holding that twenty per cent. and borrowing money on it as hypothecated collateral. In the case
                        of the West Side corporation, a corporate issue of over thirty millions had been made, and these
                        stocks, owing to the tremendous carrying power of the roads and the swelling traffic night and
                        morning of poor sheep who paid their hard-earned nickels, had a market value which gave the road
                        an assured physical value of about three times the sum for which it could have been built. The
                        North Chicago company, which in 1886 had a physical value of little more than a million, could
                        not now be duplicated for less than seven millions, and was capitalized at nearly fifteen
                        millions. The road was valued at over one hundred thousand dollars more per mile than the sum
                        for which it could actually have been replaced. Pity the poor groveling hack at the bottom who
                        has not the brain-power either to understand or to control that which his very presence and
                        necessities create.
                    These tremendous holdings, paying from ten to twelve per cent. on every
                        hundred-dollar share, were in the control, if not in the actual ownership, of Cowperwood.
                        Millions in loans that did not appear on the books of the companies he had converted into actual
                        cash, wherewith he had bought houses, lands, equipages, paintings, government bonds of the
                        purest gold value, thereby assuring himself to that extent of a fortune vaulted and locked,
                        absolutely secure. After much toiling and moiling on the part of his overworked legal department
                        he had secured a consolidation, under the title of the Consolidated Traction Company of
                        Illinois, of all outlying lines, each having separate franchises and capitalized separately, yet
                        operated by an amazing hocus-pocus of contracts and agreements in single harmonious union with
                        all his other properties. The North and West Chicago companies he now proposed to unite into a
                        third company to be called the Union Traction 
                        Company. By taking up the ten and twelve per cent. issues of the old North and West companies
                        and giving two for one of the new six-per-cent. one-hundred-dollar-share Union Traction stocks
                        in their stead, he could satisfy the current stockholders, who were apparently made somewhat
                        better off thereby, and still create and leave for himself a handsome margin of nearly eighty
                        million dollars. With a renewal of his franchises for twenty, fifty, or one hundred years he
                        would nave fastened on the city of Chicago the burden of yielding interest on this somewhat
                        fictitious value and would leave himself personally worth in the neighborhood of one hundred
                        millions.
                    This matter of extending his franchises was a most difficult and intricate business,
                        however. It involved overcoming or outwitting a recent and very treacherous increase of local
                        sentiment against him. This had been occasioned by various details which related to his elevated
                        roads. To the two lines already built he now added a third property, the Union Loop. This he
                        prepared to connect not only with his own, but with other outside elevated properties, chief
                        among which was Mr. Schryhart's South Side "L." He would then farm
                        out to his enemies the privilege of running trains on this new line. However, unwillingly, they
                        would be forced to avail themselves of the proffered opportunity, because within the region
                        covered by the new loop was the true congestionhere every one desired to come either once or
                        twice during the day or night. By this means Cowperwood would secure to his property a paying
                        interest from the start.
                    This scheme aroused a really unprecedented antagonism in the breasts of
                        Cowperwood's enemies. By the Arneel-Hand-Schryhart contingent it was looked upon as
                        nothing short of diabolical. The newspapers, directed by such men as Haguenin, Hyssop, Ormonde
                        Ricketts, and Truman Leslie MacDonald (whose father was now dead, and whose thoughts as editor
                        of the Inquirer were almost solely directed toward driving
                        Cowperwood out of Chicago), began to shout, as a last resort, in the interests of democracy.
                        Seats for everybody (on Cowperwood's lines), no more straps in the rush hours,
                        three-cent fares for working-men, morning and evening, free transfers from all of
                        Cowperwood's  lines north to west and west
                        to north, twenty per cent. of the gross income of his lines to be paid to the city. The masses
                        should be made cognizant of their individual rights and privileges. Such a course, while
                        decidedly inimical to Cowperwood's interests at the present time, and as such strongly
                        favored by the majority of his opponents, had nevertheless its disturbing elements to an
                        ultra-conservative like Hosmer Hand.
                    "I don't know about this, Norman," he remarked to
                        Schryhart, on one occasion. "I don't know about this. It's one thing
                        to stir up the public, but it's another to make them forget. This is a restless,
                        socialistic country, and Chicago is the very hotbed and center of it. Still, if it will serve to
                        trip him up I suppose it will do for the present. The newspapers can probably smooth it all over
                        later. But I don't know."
                    Mr. Hand was of that order of mind that sees socialism as a horrible importation of
                        monarchy-ridden Europe. Why couldn't the people be satisfied to allow the strong,
                        intelligent, God-fearing men of the community to arrange things for them? Wasn't that
                        democracy meant? Certainly it washe himself was one of the strong. He could not help distrusting
                        all this radical palaver. Still, anything to hurt Cowperwoodanything.
                    Cowperwood was not slow to realize that public sentiment was now in danger of being
                        thoroughly crystallized against him by newspaper agitation. Although his franchises would not
                        expirethe large majority of thembefore January 1, 1903, yet if things went on at this rate it
                        would be doubtful soon whether ever again he would be able to win another election by methods
                        legitimate or illegitimate. Hungry aldermen and councilmen might be venal and greedy enough to
                        do anything he should ask, provided he was willing to pay enough, but even the thickest-hided,
                        the most voracious and corrupt politician could scarcely withstand the searching glare of
                        publicity and the infuriated rage of a possibly aroused public opinion. By degrees this last,
                        owing to the untiring efforts of the newspapers, was being whipped into a wild foam. To come
                        into council at this time and ask for a twenty-year extension of franchises not destined to
                        expire for seven years was too much. It  could not be
                        done. Even suborned councilmen would be unwilling to undertake it just now. There are some
                        things which even politically are impossible.
                    To make matters worse, the twenty-year-franchise limit was really not at all
                        sufficient for his present needs. In order to bring about the consolidation of his North and
                        West surface lines, which he was now proposing and on the strength of which he wished to issue
                        at least two hundred million dollars' worth of one-hundred-dollar-six-per-cent. shares
                        in place of the seventy million dollars current of ten and twelve per cents., it was necessary
                        for him to secure a much more respectable term of years than the brief one now permitted by the
                        state legislature, even providing that this latter could be obtained.
                    "Peeble are not ferry much indrested m tees short-time frangizes,"
                        observed Mr. Gotloeb once, when Cowperwood was talking the matter over with him. He wanted
                        Haeckel-heimer & Co. to underwrite the whole issue. "Dey are so insigure. Now
                        if you couldt get, say, a frangize for fifty or one hunnert years or something like dot your
                        stocks wouldt go off like hot cakes. I know where I couldt dispose of fifty million dollars off
                        dem in Cermany alone."
                    He was most unctuous and pleading.
                    Cowperwood understood this quite as well as Gotloeb, if not better. He was not at all
                        satisfied with the thought of obtaining a beggarly twenty-year extension for his giant schemes
                        when cities like Philadelphia, Boston, New York, and Pittsburg were apparently glad to grant
                        their corporations franchises which would not expire for ninety-nine years at the earliest, and
                        in most cases were given in perpetuity. This was the kind of franchise favored by the great
                        moneyed houses of New York and Europe, and which Gotloeb, and even Addison, locally, were
                        demanding.
                    "It is certainly important that we get these franchises renewed for fifty
                        years," Addison used to say to him, and it was seriously and disagreeably true.
                    The various lights of Cowperwood's legal department, constantly on the
                        search for new legislative devices, were not slow to grasp the import of the situation. It was
                        not long before the resourceful Mr. Joel Avery appeared with a suggestion.
                    
                    "Did you notice what the state legislature of New York is doing in
                        connection with the various local transit problems down there?" asked this honorable
                        gentleman of Cowperwood, one morning, ambling in when announced and seating himself in the great
                        presence. A half-burned cigar was between his fingers, and a little round felt hat looked
                        peculiarly rakish above his sinister, intellectual, constructive face and eyes.
                    "No, I didn't," replied Cowperwood, who had actually noted
                        and pondered upon the item in question, but who did not care to say so. "I saw
                        something about it, but I didn't pay much attention to it. What of it?"
                    "Well, it plans to authorize a body of four or five menone branch in New
                        York, one in Buffalo, I presumeto grant all new franchises and extend old ones with the consent
                        of the various local communities involved. They are to fix the rate of compensation to be paid
                        to the state or the city, and the rates of fare. They can regulate transfers, stock issues, and
                        all that sort of thing. I was thinking if at any time we find this business of renewing the
                        franchises too uncertain here we might go into the state legislature and see what can be done
                        about introducing a public-service commission of that kind into this state. We are not the only
                        corporation that would welcome it. Of course, it would be better if there were a general or
                        special originate with us."
                    He stared at Cowperwood heavily, the latter returning a reflective gaze.
                    "I'll think it over," he said. "There may be
                        something in that."
                    Henceforth the thought of instituting such a commission never left
                        Cowperwood's mind. It contained the germ of a solutionthe possibility of extending his
                        franchises for fifty or even a hundred years.
                    This plan, as Cowperwood was subsequently to discover, was a thing more or less
                        expressly forbidden by the state constitution of Illinois. The latter provided that no special
                        or exclusive privilege, immunity, or franchise whatsoever should be granted to any corporation,
                        association, or individual. Yet, "What is a little matter like the constitution  between friends, anyhow?" some one had
                        already asked. There are fads in legislation as well as dusty pigeonholes in which phases of
                        older law are tucked away and forgotten. many earlier ideals of the constitution-makers had long
                        since been conveniently obscured or nullified by decisions, appeals to the federal government,
                        appeals to the state government, communal contracts, and the likefine cobwebby figments, all,
                        but sufficient, just the same, to render inoperative the original intention. Besides, Cowperwood
                        had but small respect for either the intelligence or the self-protective capacity of such men as
                        constituted the rural voting element of the state. From his lawyers and from others he had heard
                        innumerable droll stories of life in the state legislature, and the state counties and townson
                        the bench, at the rural huskings where the state elections were won, in country hotels, on
                        country roads and farms. "One day as I was getting on the train at Petunkey,"
                        old General Van Sickle, or Judge Dickensheets, or ex-Judge Avery would beginand then would
                        follow some amazing narration of rural immorality or dullness, or political or social
                        misconception. Of the total population of the state at this time over half were in the city
                        itself, and these he had managed to keep in control. For the remaining million, divided between
                        twelve small cities and an agricultural population, he had small respect. What did this handful
                        of yokels amount to, anyhow?dull, frivoling, barn-dancing boors.
                    The great state of Illinoisa territory as large as England proper and as fertile as
                        Egypt, bordered by a great lake and a vast river, and with a population of over two million
                        free-born Americanswould scarcely seem a fit subject for corporate manipulation and control. Yet
                        a more trade-ridden commonwealth might not have been found anywhere at this time within the
                        entire length and breadth of the universe. Cowperwood personally, though contemptuous of the
                        bucolic mass when regarded as individuals, had always been impressed by this great community of
                        his election. Here had come Marquette and Joliet, La Salle and Hennepin, dreaming a way to the
                        Pacific. Here Lincoln and Douglas, antagonist and protagonist of slavery argument, had
                        contested; here had  arisen "Joe"
                        Smith, propagator of that strange American dogma of the Latter-Day Saints. What a state,
                        Cowperwood sometimes thought; what a figment of the brain, and yet how wonderful! He had crossed
                        it often on his way to St. Louis, to Memphis, to Denver, and had been touched by its very
                        simplicitythe small, new wooden towns, so redolent of American tradition, prejudice, force, and
                        illusion. The white-steepled church, the lawn-faced, tree-shaded village streets, the long
                        stretches of flat, open country where corn grew in serried rows or where in winter the snow
                        bedded lightlyit all reminded him a little of his own father and mother, who had been in many
                        respects suited to such a world as this. Yet none the less did he hesitate to press on the
                        measure which was to adjust his own future, to make profitable his issue of two hundred million
                        dollars' worth of Union Traction, to secure him a fixed place in the financial
                        oligarchy of America and of the world.
                    The state legislature at this time was ruled over by a small group of wire-pulling,
                        pettifogging, corporation-controlled individuals who came up from the respective towns,
                        counties, and cities of the state, but who bore the same relation to the communities which they
                        represented and to their superiors and equals in and out of the legislative halls at Springfield
                        that men do to such allies anywhere in any given field. Why do we call them pettifogging and
                        dismiss them? Perhaps they were pettifogging, but certainly no more so than any other shrewd rat
                        or animal that burrows its way onwardand shall we say upward? The deepest controlling principle
                        which animated these individuals was the oldest and first, that of self-preservation. Picture,
                        for example, a common occurrencethat of Senator John H. Southack, conversing with, perhaps,
                        Senator George Mason Wade, of Gallatin County, behind a legislative door in one of the senate
                        conference chambers toward the close of a sessionSenator Southack, blinking, buttonholing his
                        well-dressed colleague and drawing very near; Senator Wade, curious, confidential, expectant (a
                        genial, solid, experienced, slightly paunchy but well-built Senator Wadeand handsome, too).
                    "You know, George, I told you there would be something eventually m the
                        Quincy water-front improvement  if it ever worked
                        out. Well, here it is. Ed Truesdale was in town yesterday." (This with a knowing eye,
                        as much as to say, "Mum's the word.") "Here's five
                        hundred; count it."
                    A quick flashing out of some green and yellow bills from a vest pocket, a light
                        thumbing and counting on the part of Senator Wade. A flare of comprehension, approval,
                        gratitude, admiration, as though to signify, "This is something like."
                        "Thanks, John. I had pretty near forgot all about it. Nice people, eh? If you see Ed
                        again give him my regards. When that Bellville contest comes up let know."
                    Mr. Wade, being a good speaker, was frequently in request to stir up the populace to
                        a sense of pro or con in connection with some legislative crisis impending, and it was to some
                        such future opportunity that he now pleasantly referred. O life, O politics, O necessity, O
                        hunger, O burning human appetite and desire on every hand!
                    Mr. Southack was an unobtrusive, pleasant, quiet man of the type that would usually
                        be patronized as rural and pettifogging by men high in commercial affairs. He was none the less
                        well fitted to his task, a capable and diligent beneficiary and agent. He was well dressed,
                        middle-aged,only forty-fivecool, courageous, genial, with eyes that were material, but not cold
                        or hard, and a light, springy, energetic step and manner. A holder of some C. W. & I.
                        R.R. shares, a director of one of his local county banks, a silent partner in the Effingham Herald, he was a personage in his district, one much revered by
                        local swains. Yet a more game and rascally type was not to be found in all rural legislation.
                    It was old General Van Sickle who sought out Southack, having remembered him from his
                        earlier legislative days. It was Avery who conducted the negotiations. Primarily, in all state
                        scheming at Springfield, Senator Southack was supposed to represent the C. W. I., one of the
                        great trunk-lines traversing the state, and incidentally connecting Chicago with the South,
                        West, and East. This road, having a large local mileage and being anxious to extend its
                        franchises in Chicago and elsewhere, was deep in state politics. By a curious coincidence it was
                        mainly financed  by Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb
                        & Co., of New York, though Cowperwood's connection with that concern was not as
                        yet known. Going to Southack, who was the Republican whip in the senate, Avery proposed that he,
                        in conjuction with Judge Dickensheets and one Gilson Bickel, counsel for the C. W. I., should
                        now undertake to secure sufficient support in the state senate and house for a scheme
                        introducing the New York idea of public-service commission into the governing machinery of the
                        state of Illinois. This measure, be it noted, was to be supplemented by one very interesting and
                        important little proviso to the effect that all franchise-holding corporations should here-by,
                        for a period of fifty years from the date of the enactment of the bill into law, be assured of
                        all their rights, privileges, and immunitiesincluding franchises, of course. This was justified
                        on the ground that any such radical change as that involved in the introduction of
                        public-service commission might disturb the peace and well-being of corporations with franchises
                        which still had years to run.
                    Senator Southack saw nothing very wrong with this idea, though he naturally perceived
                        what it was all about and whom it was truly designed to protect.
                    "Yes," he said, succinctly, "I see the lay of that land,
                        but what do I get out of it?"
                    "Fifty thousand dollars for yourself if it's successful, ten
                        thousand if it isn'tprovided you make an honest effort; two thousand dollars apiece for
                        any of the boys who see fit to help you if we win. Is that perfectly satisfactory?"
                    "Perfectly," replied Senator Southack.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LV
                    COWPERWOOD AND THE GOVERNOR
                    A PUBLIC-service-commission law might, ipso facto,
                        have been quietly passed at this session, if the arbitrary franchise-extending proviso had not
                        been introduced, and this on the thin excuse that so novel a change in the working scheme of the
                        state government might bring about hardship to some. This redounded too obviously to the benefit
                        of one particular corporation. The newspaper menas thick as flies about the halls of the state
                        capitol at Springfield, and essentially watchful and loyal to their paperswere quick to sense
                        the true state of affairs. Never were there such hawks as newspaper men. These wretches
                        (employed by sniveling, mud-snouting newspapers of the opposition) were not only in the councils
                        of politicians, in the pay of rival corporations, in the confidence of the governor, in the
                        secrets of the senators and local representatives, but were here and there in one
                        another's confidence. A piece of newsa rumor, dream, a fancywhispered by Senator Smith
                        to Senator Jones, or by Representative Smith to Representative Jones, and confided by him in
                        turn to Charlie White, of the Globe, or Eddie Burns, of the Democrat, would in turn be communicated to Robert Hazlitt, of the
                            Press, or Harry Emonds, of the Transcript.
                    
                    All at once a disturbing announcement in one other of the papers, no one knowing
                        whence it came. Neither Senator Smith nor Senator Jones had told any one. No word of the
                        confidence imposed in Charlie White or Eddie Burns had ever been breathed. But there you werethe
                        thing was in the papers, the storm of inquiry, opinion, opposition was on. No one knew, on one
                        was to  blame, but it was on, and the battle had
                        henceforth to be fought in the open.
                    Consider also the governor who presided at this time in the executive chamber at
                        Springfield. He was a strange, tall, dark, osseous man who, owing to the brooding, melancholy
                        character of his own disposition, had a checkered and a somewhat sad career behind him. Born in
                        Sweden, he had been brought to America as a child, and allowed or compelled to fight his own way
                        upward under all the grinding aspects of poverty. Owing to an energetic and indomitable
                        temperament, he had through years of law practice and public labors of various kinds built up
                        for himself a following among Chicago Swedes which amounted to adoration. He had been city
                        tax-collector, city surveyor, district attorney, and for six or eight years a state circuit
                        judge. In all these capacities he had manifested a tendency to do the right as he saw it and
                        play fairqualities which endeared him to the idealistic. Honest, and with a hopeless brooding
                        sympathy for the miseries of the poor, he had as circuit judge, and also as district attorney,
                        rendered various decisions which had made him very unpopular with the rich and powerfuldecisions
                        in damage cases, fraud cases, railroad claim cases, where the city or the state was seeking to
                        oust various powerful railway corporations from possession of propertyyards, water-frontages,
                        and the like, to which they had no just claim. At the same time the populace, reading the news
                        items of his doings and hearing him speak on various and sundry occasions, conceived a great
                        fancy for him. He was primarily soft-hearted, sweet-minded, fiery, a brilliant orator, a dynamic
                        presence. In addition he was woman-hungrya phase which homely, sex-starved intellectuals the
                        world over will understand, to the shame of a lying age, that greatest sorrow, its greatest joy.
                        All these factors turned an ultra-conservative element in the community against him, and he was
                        considered dangerous. At the same time he had by careful economy and investment built up a
                        fair-sized fortune. Recently, however, owing to the craze for sky-scrapers, he had placed much
                        of his holdings in a some-what poorly constructed and therefore unprofitable office  building. Because of this error financial wreck was
                        threatening him. Even now he was knocking at the doors of large bonding companies for
                        assistance.
                    This man, in company with the antagonistic financial element and the newspapers,
                        constituted, as regards Cowperwood's public-service-commission scheme, a triumvirate of
                        difficulties not easy to overcome. The newspapers, in due time, catching wind of the true
                        purport of the plan, ran screaming to their readers with the horrible intelligence. In the
                        offices of Schryhart, Arneel, Hand, and Merrill, as well as in other centers of finance, there
                        was considerable puzzling over the situation, and then a shrewd, intelligent deduction was made.
                    "Do you see what he's up to, Hosmer?" inquired Schryhart
                        of Hand. "He sees that we have him scotched here in Chicago. As things stand now he
                        can't go into the city council and ask for a franchise for more than twenty years under
                        the state law, and he can't do that for three or four years yet, anyhow. His franchises
                        don't expire soon enough. He knows that by the time they do expire we will have public
                        sentiment aroused to such a point that no council, however crooked it may be, will dare to give
                        him what he asks unless he is willing to make a heavy return to the city. If he does that it
                        will end his scheme of selling any two hundred million dollars of Union Traction at six per
                        cent. The market won't back him up. He can't pay twenty per cent. to the city
                        and give universal transfers and pay six per cent. on two hundred million dollars, and everybody
                        knows it. He has a fine scheme of making a cool hundred million out of this. Well, he
                        can't do it. We must get the newspapers to hammer this legislative scheme of his to
                        death. When he comes into the local council he must pay twenty or thirty per cent. of the gross
                        receipts of his roads to the city. He must give free transfers from every one of his lines to
                        every other one. Then we have him. I dislike to see socialistic ideas fostered, but it
                        can't be helped. We have to do it. If we ever get him out of here we can hush up the
                        newspapers, and the public will forget about it; at least we can hope so."
                    In the mean time the governor had heard the whisper of "boodle"a
                        word of the day expressive of a corrupt  legislative
                        fund. Not at all a small-minded man, nor involved in the financial campaign being waged against
                        Cowperwood, nor inclined to be influeced mentally or emotionally by superheated charges against
                        the latter, he nevertheless speculated deeply. In a vague way he sensed the dreams of
                        Cowperwood. The charge of seducing women so frequently made against the street-railway magnate,
                        so shocking to the yoked conventionalists, did not disturb him at all. Back of the onward sweep
                        of the generations he himself sensed the mystic Aphrodite and her magic. He realized that
                        Cowperwood had traveled fastthat he was Pressing to the utmost a great advantage in the face of
                        great obstacles. At the same time he knew that the present street-car service of Chicago was by
                        no means bad. Would he be proving unfaithful to the trust imposed on him by the great electorate
                        of Illinois if he were to advantage Cowperwood's cause? Must he not rather in the sight
                        of all men smoke out the animating causes heregreed, overweening ambition, colossal
                        self-interest as opposed to the selflessness of a Christian ideal and of a democratic theory of
                        government?
                    Life rises to a high plane of the dramatic, and hence of the artistic, whenever and
                        wherever in the conflict regarding material possession there enters a conception of the ideal.
                        It was this that lit forever the beacon fires of Troy, that thundered eternally in the
                        horses' hoofs at Arbela and in the guns at Waterloo. Ideals were here at stakethe
                        dreams of one man as opposed perhaps to the ultimate dreams of a city or state or nationthe
                        grovelings and wallowings of a democracy slowly, blindly trying to stagger to its feet. In this
                        conflicttaking place in an inland cottage-dotted state where men were clowns and churls, dancing
                        fiddlers at country fairswere opposed, as the governor saw it, the ideals of one man and the
                        ideals of men.
                    Governor Swanson decided after mature deliberation to veto the bill. Cowperwood,
                        debonair as ever, faithful as ever to his logic and his and his conception of individuality, was
                        determined that on stone should be left unturned that would permit him to triumph, that would
                        carry him finally to the gorgeous throne of his own construction. Having first engineered the
                        through the legislature  by a tortuous process, fired
                        upon at every step by the press, he next sent various individualsstate legislators,
                        representatives of the C.W. & I., members of outside corporations to see the governor,
                        but Swanson was adamant. He did not see how he could conscientiously sanction the bill. Finally,
                        one day, as he was seated in his Chicago business officea fateful chamber located in the
                        troublesome building which was subsequently to wreck his fortune and which was the raison d'$eCtre of a present period of care and depressionenter
                        the smug, comfortable presence of Judge Nahum Dickensheets, at present senior counsel of the
                        North Chicago Street Railway. He was a very mountain of a man physicallysmooth-faced, agreeably
                        clothed, hard and yet ingratiating of eye, a thinker, a reasoner. Swanson knew much of him by
                        reputation and otherwise, although personally they were no more than speaking acquaintances.
                    "How are you, Governor? I'm Glad to see you again. I heard you were
                        back in Chicago. I see by the morning papers that you have that Southack public-service bill up
                        before you. I thought I would come over and have a few words with you about it if you have no
                        objection. I've been trying to get down to Springfield for the last three weeks to have
                        a little chat with you before you reached a conclusion one way or the other. Do you mind if I
                        inquire whether you have decided to veto it?"
                    The ex-judge, faintly perfumed, clean and agreeable, carried in his hand a
                        large-sized black hand-satchel which he put down beside him on the floor.
                    "Yes, Judge," replied Swanson, "I've practically
                        decided to veto it. I can see no practical reason for supporting it. As I look at it now,
                        it's specious and special, not particularly called for or necessary at this
                        time."
                    The governor talked with a slight Swedish accent, intellectual, individual.
                    A long, placid, philosophic discussion of all the pros and cons of the situation
                        followed. The governor was tired, distrait, but ready to listen in a tolerant way to more
                        argument along a line with which he was already fully familiar. He knew, of course, that
                        Dickensheets was counsel for the North Chicago Street Railway Company.
                    "I'm very glad to have heard what you have to say,  Judge," finally commented the governor. I
                        don't want you to think I haven't given this matter serious thoughtI have. I
                        know most of the things that have been done down at Springfield. Mr. Cowperwood is an able man;
                        I don't charge any more against him than I do against twenty other agencies that are
                        operating down there at this very moment. I know what his difficulties are. I can hardly be
                        accused of sympathizing with his enemies, for they certainly do not sympathize with me. I am not
                        even listening to the newspapers. This is a matter of faith in democracya difference in ideals
                        between myself and many other men. I haven't vetoed the bill yet. I don't say
                        that something may not arise to make me sign it. My present intention, unless I hear something
                        much favorable in its behalf than I have already heard, is veto it."
                    "Governor," said Dickensheets, rising, "let me thank you
                        for your courtesy. I would be the last person in the world to wish to influence you outside the
                        line of your private convictions and your personal sense of fair play. At the same time I have
                        tried to make plain to you how essential it is, how only fair and right, that this local
                        street-railway-franchise business should be removed out of the realm of sentiment, emotion,
                        public passion, envy, buncombe, and all the other influences that are at work to frustrate and
                        make difficult the work to frustrate and make difficult the work of Mr. Cowperwood. All envy, I
                        tell you. His enemies are willing to sacrifice every principle of justice and fair play to see
                        him eliminated. That sums it up."
                    "That may all be true," replied Swanson. "Just the same,
                        there is another principle involved here which you do not seem to see or do not care to
                        considerthe right of the people under the state constitution to a consideration, a revaluation,
                        of their contracts at the time and in the manner agreed upon under the original franchise. What
                        you propose is sumptuary legislation; it makes null and void an agreement between the people and
                        the street-railway companies at a time when the people have a right to expect a full and free
                        consideration of this matter aside from state legislative influence and control. To persuade the
                        state legislature, by influence or by any other means, to step in at this time and interfere is
                        unfair. The propositions  involved in those bills
                        should be referred to the people at the next election for approval or not, just as they see fit.
                        That is the way this matter should be arranged. It will not do to come into the legislature and
                        influence or buy votes, and then expect me to write my signature under the whole matter as
                        satisfactory."
                    Swanson was not heated or anitipathetic. He was cool, firm, well-intentioned.
                    Dickensheets passed his hand over a wide, high temple. He seemed to be meditating
                        somethingsome hitherto untried statement or course of action.
                    "Well, Governor," he repeated, "I want to thank you,
                        anyhow. You have been exceedingly kind. By the way, I see you have a large, roomy safe
                        here." He had picked up the bag he was carrying. "I wonder if I might leave
                        this here for a day or two in your care? It contains some papers that I do not wish to carry
                        into the country with me. Would you mind locking it up in your safe and letting me have it when
                        I send for it?"
                    "With pleasure," replied the governor.
                    He took it, placed it in lower storage space, and closed and locked the door. The two
                        men parted with a genial hand-shake. The governor returned to his meditations, the judge hurried
                        to catch a car.
                    About eleven o'clock the next morning Swanson was still working in his
                        office, worrying greatly over some method whereby he could raise one hundred thousand dollars to
                        defray interest charges, repairs, and other payments, on a structure that was by no means
                        meeting expenses and was hence a drain. At this juncture his office door opened, and his very
                        youthful office-boy presented him the card of F.A. Cowperwood. The governor had never seen him
                        before. Cowperwood entered brisk, fresh, forceful. He was as crisp as a new dollar billas clean,
                        sharp, firmly limned.
                    "Governor Swanson, I believe?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    The two were scrutinizing each other defensively.
                    "I am Mr. Cowperwood. I come to have a very few words with you. I will take
                        very little of your time. I do not wish to go over any of the arguments that have  been gone over before. I am satisfied that you know
                        all about them.
                    "Yes, I had a talk with Judge Dickensheets yesterday."
                    Just so, Governor. Knowing all that you do, permit me to put one more matter before
                        you. I know that you are, comparatively, a poor manthat every dollar. You have is at present
                        practically tied in this building. I know of two places where you have applied for a loan of one
                        hundred thousand dollars and have been refused because you haven't sufficient security
                        to offer outside of this building, which is mortgaged up to its limit as it stands. The
                        men' as you must know, who are fighting you are fighting me. I am a scoundrel because I
                        am selfish and ambitiousa materialist. You are not a scoundrel, but a dangerous person because
                        you are an idealist. Whether you veto this bill or not, you will never again be elected Governor
                        of Illinois if the people who are fighting me succeed, as they will succeed, in fighting
                        you."
                    Swanson's dark eyes burned illuminatively. He nodded his head in assent.
                    "Governor, I have come here this morning to bribe you, if I can. I do not
                        agree with your ideals; in the last analysis I do not believe that they will work. I am sure I
                        do not believe in most of the things that you believe in. Life is different at bottom perhaps
                        from what either you or I may think. Just the same, as compared with other men, I sympathize
                        with you. I will loan you that one hundred thousand dollars and two or three or four hundred
                        thousand dollars more besides if you wish. You need never pay me a dollaror you can if you wish.
                        Suit yourself. In that black bag which Judge Dickensheets brought here yesterday, and which is
                        in your safe, is three hundred thousand dollars in cash. He did not have the courage to mention
                        it. Sign the bill and let me beat the men who are trying to beat me. I will support you in the
                        future with any amount of money or influence that I can bring to bear in any political contest
                        you may choose to enter, state or national."
                    Cowperwood's eyes glowed like a large, genial collie's. There was a
                        suggestion of sympathetic appeal in them, rich and deep, and, even more than that, a philosophic
                        perception  of ineffable things. Swanson arose.
                        "You really don't mean to say that you are trying to bribe me openly, do
                        you?" he inquired. In spite of a conventional impulse to burst forth in moralistic
                        denunciation, solemnly phrased, he was compelled for the moment to see the other man's
                        viewpoint. They were working in different direction, going different ways, to what ultimate end?
                    "Mr. Cowperwood," continued the governor, his face a physiognomy
                        out of Goya, his eye alight with a kind of understanding sympathy, "I suppose I ought
                        to resent this, but I can't. I see your point of view. I'm sorry, but I
                        can't help you nor myself. My political belief, my ideals, compel me to veto this bill;
                        when I forsake these I am done politically with myself. I may not be elected governor again, but
                        that does not matter, either. I could use your money, but I won't, I shall have to bid
                        you good morning"
                    He moved toward the safe, slowly, opened it, took out the bag and brought it over.
                    "You must take that with you," he added.
                    The two men looked at each other a moment curiously, sadlythe one with a burden of
                        financial, political, and moral worry on his spirit, the other with an unconquerable
                        determination not to be worsted even in defeat.
                    "Governor," concluded Cowperwood, in the most genial, contented,
                        undisturbed voice, "you will live to see another legislature pass and another governor
                        sign some such bill. It will not be done this session, apparently, but it will be done. I am not
                        through, because my case is right and fair. Just the same, after you have vetoed the bill, come
                        and see me, and I will loan you that one hundred thousand if you want it."
                    Cowperwood went out. Swanson vetoed the bill. It is on record that subsequently he
                        borrowed one hundred thousand dollars from Cowperwood to stay him from ruin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVI
                    THE ORDEAL OF BERENICE
                    AT the news that Swanson had refused to sign the bill and that the legislature lacked
                        sufficient courage to pass it over his veto both Schryhart and Hand literally rubbed their hands
                        in comfortable satisfaction.
                    "Well, Hosmer," said Schryhart the next day, when they met at their
                        favorite clubthe Union League"it looks as though we were making some little progress,
                        after all, doesn't it? Our friend didn't succeed in turning that little trick,
                        did he?"
                    He beamed almost ecstatically upon his solid companion.
                    "Not this time. I wonder what move he will decide to make next."
                    "I don't see very well what it can be. He knows now that he
                        can't get his franchises without a compromise that will eat into his profits, and if
                        that happens he can't sell his Union Traction stock. This legislative scheme of his
                        must have cost him all of three hundred thousand dollars, and what has he to show for it? The
                        new legislature, unless I'm greatly mistaken, will be afraid to touch anything in
                        connection with him. It's hardly likely that any of the Springfield politicians will
                        want to draw the fire of the newspapers again."
                    Schryhart felt very powerful, imposingsleek, indeednow that his theory of newspaper
                        publicity as a cure was apparently beginning to work. Hand, more saturnine, more responsive to
                        the uncertainty of things mundanethe shifty undercurrents that are perpetually sapping and
                        mining belowwas agreeable, but not sure. Perhaps so.
                    In regard to his Eastern life during this interlude, Cowperwood  had been becoming more and more Keenly alive to the futility of the
                        attempt to effect a social rescue for Aileen. "What was the use?" he often
                        asked himself, as he contemplated her movements, thoughts, plans, as contrasted with the natural
                        efficiency, taste, grace, and subtlety of a woman like Berenice. He felt that the latter could,
                        if she would, smooth over in an adroit way all the silly social antagonisms wish were now
                        afflicting him. It was a woman's game, he frequently told himself, and would never be
                        adjusted till he had the woman.
                    Simultaneously Aileen, looking at the situation from her own point of view and
                        nonplussed by the ineffectiveness of mere wealth when not combined with a certain social
                        something which she did not appear to have, was, nevertheless, unwilling to surrender her dream.
                        What was it, she asked herself over and over, that made this great difference between women and
                        women? The question contained its own answer, but she did not know that. She was still
                        good-lookingveryand an adept in self-ornamentation, after her manner and taste. So great had
                        been the newspaper palaver regarding the arrival of a new multimillionaire from the West and the
                        palace he was erecting that even tradesmen, clerks, and hall-boys knew of her. Almost
                        invariably, when called upon to state her name in such quarters, she was greeted by a slight
                        start of recognition, a swift glance of examination, whispers, even open comment. That was
                        something. Yet how much more, and how different were those rarefied reaches of social supremacy
                        to which popular repute bears scarcely any relationship at all. How different, indeed? From what
                        Cowperwood had said in Chicago she had fancied that when they took up their formal abode in New
                        York he would make an attempt to straighten out his life somewhat, to modify the number of his
                        indifferent amours and to present an illusion of solidarity and unity. Yet, now that they had
                        actually arrived, she noticed that he was more concerned with his heightened political and
                        financial complications in Illinois and with his art-collection than he was with what might
                        happen to be going on in the new home or what could be made to happen there. As in the days of
                        old, she was constantly puzzled by his persistent 
                        evenings out and his sudden appearances and disappearances. Yet, determine as she might, rage
                        secretly or openly as she would, she could not cure herself of the infection of Cowperwood, the
                        lure that surrounded and substantiated a mind and spirit far greater than any other she had ever
                        known. Neither honor, virtue, consistent charity, nor sympathy was there, but only a gay, foamy,
                        unterrified sufficiency and a creative, constructive sense of beauty that, like sunlit spray,
                        glowing with all the irradiative glories of the morning, danced and fled, spun driftwise over a
                        heavy sea of circumstance. Life, however dark and somber, could never apparently cloud his soul.
                        Brooding and idling in the wonder palace of his construction, Aileen could see what he was like.
                        The silver fountain in the court of orchids, the peach-like glow of the pink marble chamber,
                        with its birds and flowers, the serried brilliance of his amazing art-collections were all like
                        him, were really the color of his soul. To think that after all she was not the one to bind him
                        to subjection, to hold him by golden yet steely threads of fancy to the hem of her garment! To
                        think that he should no longer walk, a slave of his desire, behind the chariot of her spiritual
                        and physical superiority. Yet she could not give up.
                    By this time Cowperwood had managed through infinite tact and a stoic disregard of
                        his own aches and pains to re-establish at least a temporary working arrangement with the Carter
                        household. To Mrs. Carter he was still a Heaven-sent son of light. Actually in a mournful way
                        she pleaded for Cowperwood, vouching for his disinterestedness and long-standing generosity.
                        Berenice, on the other hand, was swept between her craving for a great state for herselfluxury,
                        powerand her desire to conform to the current ethics and morals of life. Cowperwood was married,
                        and because of his attitude of affection for her his money was tainted. She had long speculated
                        on his relation to Aileen, the basis of their differences, had often wondered why neither she
                        nor her mother had ever been introduced. What type of woman was the second Mrs. Cowperwood?
                        Beyond generalities Cowperwood had never mentioned her. Berenice actually thought to seek her
                        out in some inconspicuous way, but, as it chanced one night her curiosity  was rewarded without effort. She was at the opera with friends, and
                        her escort nudged her arm.
                    "Have you noticed Box 9the lady in white satin with the green lace
                        shawl?"
                    "Yes." Berenice raised her glasses.
                    "Mrs. Frank Algernon Cowperwood, the wife of the Chicago millionaire. They
                        have just built that house at 68th Street. He has part lease of number 9, I believe."
                    Berenice almost started, but retained her composure, giving merely an indifferent
                        glance. A little while after, she adjusted her glasses carefully and studied Mrs. Cowperwood.
                        She noted curiously that Aileen's hair was somewhat the color of her owna more carroty
                        red. She studied her eyes, which were slightly ringed, her smooth cheeks and full mouth,
                        thickened somewhat by drinking and dissipation. Aileen was good-looking, she thoughthandsome in
                        a material way, though so much older than herself. Was it merely age that was alienating
                        Cowperwood, or was it some deep-seated intellectual difference? Obviously Mrs. Cowperwood was
                        well over fortya fact which did not give Berenice any sense of satisfaction or of advantage. She
                        really did not care enough. It did occur to her, however, that this woman whom she was observing
                        had probably given the best years of her life to Cowperwoodthe brilliant years of her girlhood.
                        And now he was tired of her! There were small carefully powdered lines at the tails of
                        Aileen's eyes and at the corners of her mouth. At the same time she seemed
                        preternaturally gay, kittenish, spoiled. With her were two menone a well-known actor, sinisterly
                        handsome, a man with a brutal, unclean reputation, the other a young social pretenderboth
                        unknown to Berenice. Her knowledge was to come from her escort, a loquacious youth, more or less
                        versed, as it happened, in the gay life of the city.
                    "I hear that she is creating quite a stir in Bohemia," he observed.
                        "If she expects to enter society it's a poor way to begin, don't you
                        think?"
                    "Do you know that she expects to?"
                    "All the usual signs are outa box here, a house on Fifth Avenue.
                    This study of Aileen puzzled and disturbed Berenice a  little. Nevertheless, she felt immensely superior. Her soul seemed to soar
                        over the plain Aileen inhabited. The type of the latter's escorts suggested errora lack
                        of social discrimination. Because of the high position he had succeeded in achieving Cowperwood
                        was entitled, no doubt, to be dissatisfied. His wife had not kept pace with him, or, rather, had
                        not eluded him in his onward flighthad not run swiftly before, like a winged victory. Berenice
                        reflected that if she were dealing with such a man should never know her trulyhe should be made
                        to wonder and to doubt. Lines of care and disappointment should never mar her face. She would
                        scheme and dream and conceal and evade, He should dance attendance, whoever he was.
                    Nevertheless, here she herself was, at twenty-two, unmarried, her background
                        insecure, the very ground on which she walked treacherous. Braxmar knew, and Beales Chadsey, and
                        Cowperwood. At least three or four of her acquaintances must have been at the Waldorf on that
                        fatal night. How long would it be before others became aware? She tried eluding her mother,
                        Cowperwood, and the situation generally by freely accepting more extended invitations and by
                        trying to see whether there was not some opening for her in the field of art. She thought of
                        painting and essayed several canvases which she took to dealers. The work was subtle, remote,
                        fancifula snow scene with purple edges; a thinking satyr, iron-like in his heaviness, brooding
                        over a cloudy valley; a lurking devil peering at a praying Marguerite; a Dutch interior inspired
                        by Mrs. Batjer, and various dancing figures. Phlegmatic dealers of somber mien admitted some
                        promise, but pointed out the difficulty of sales. Beginners were numerous. Art was long. If she
                        went on, of course. . . . Let them see other things. She turned her thoughts to dancing.
                    This art in its interpretative sense was just being introduced into America, a
                        certain Althea Baker having created a good deal of stir in society by this means. With the idea
                        of duplicating or surpassing the success of this woman Berenice conceived a dance series of her
                        own. One was to be "The Terror"a nymph dancing in the spring woods, but
                        eventually pursued and terrorized by a faun; another, "The Peacock," a fantasy
                        illustrative of proud self-adulation;  another,
                        "The Vestal," a study from Roman choric worship. After spending considerable
                        time at Pocono evolving costumes, poses, and the like, Berenice finally hinted at the plan to
                        Mrs. Batjer, declaring that she would enjoy the artistic outlet it would afford, and indicating
                        at the same time that it might provide the necessary solution of a problem of ways and means.
                    "Why, Bevy, how you talk!" commented Mrs. Batjer. "And
                        with your possibilities. Why don't you marry first, and do your dancing afterward? You
                        might compel a certain amount of attention that way."
                    Because of hubby? How droll! Whom would you suggest that I marry at once?"
                    "Oh, when it come to that" replied Mrs. Batjer, with a slight
                        reproachful lift in her voice, and thinking of Kilmer Duelma. "But surely your need
                        isn't so pressing. If you were to take up professional dancing I might have to cut you
                        afterwardparticularly if any one else did."
                    She smiled the sweetest, most sensible smile. Mrs. Batjer accompanied her suggestions
                        nearly always with a slight sniff and cough. Berenice could see that the mere fact of this
                        conversation made a slight difference. In Mrs. Batjer's world poverty was a dangerous
                        topic. The mere odor of it suggested a kind of horrorperhaps the equivalent of error or sin.
                        Others, Berenice now suspected, would take affright even more swiftly.
                    Subsequent to this, however, she made one slight investigation of those realms that
                        govern professional theatrical engagements. It was a most disturbing experience. The mere color
                        and odor of the stuffy offices, the gauche, material attendants, the impossible aspirants and
                        participants in this make-believe world! The crudeness! The effrontery! The materiality! The
                        sensuality! It came to her as a sickening breath and for the moment frightened her. What would
                        become of refinement there? What of delicacy? How could one rise and sustain an individual
                        dignity and control in such a world as this?
                    Cowperwood was now suggesting as a binding link that he should buy a home for them in
                        Park Avenue, where such social functions as would be of advantage to Berenice and in some
                        measure to himself as an occasional guest  might be
                        indulged in. Mrs. Carter, a fool of comfort, was pleased to welcome this idea. It promised to
                        give her absolute financial security for the future.
                    "I know how it is with you, Frank," she declared. "I know
                        you need some place that you can call a home. The whole difficulty will be with Bevy. Ever since
                        that miserable puppy made those charges against me I haven't been able to talk to her
                        at all. She doesn't seem to want to do anything I suggest. You have much more influence
                        with her than I have. If you explain, it may be all right."
                    Instantly Cowperwood saw an opportunity. Intensely pleased with this confession of
                        weakness on the part of the mother, he went to Berenice, but by his usual method of indirect
                        direction.
                    "You know, Bevy," he said, one afternoon when he found her alone,
                        "I have been wondering if it wouldn't be better if I bought a large house for
                        you and your mother here in New York, where you and she could do entertaining on a large scale.
                        Since I can't spend my money on myself, I might as well spend it on some one who would
                        make an interesting use of it. You might include me as an uncle or father's cousin or
                        something of that sort," he added, lightly.
                    Berenice, who saw quite clearly the trap he was setting for her, was nonplussed. At
                        the same time she could not help seeing that a house, if it were beautifully furnished, would be
                        an interesting asset. People in society loved fixed, notable dwellings; she had observed that.
                        What functions could not be held if only her mother's past were not charged against
                        her! That was the great difficulty. It was almost an Arabian situation, heightened by the
                        glitter of gold. And Cowperwood was always so diplomatic. He came forward with such a bland,
                        engaging smile. His hands were so shapely and seeking.
                    "A house such as you speak of would enlarge the debt beyond payment, I
                        presume," she remarked, sardonically and with a sad, almost contemptuous gesture.
                        Cowperwood realized how her piercing intellect was following his shifty trail, and winced. She
                        must see that her fate was in his hands, but oh! if she would only surrender, how swiftly every
                        dollar of his vast fortune should be piled  humbly
                        at her feet. She should have her heart's desire, if money would buy it. She could say
                        to him go, and he would go; come, and he would come.
                    "Berenice," he said, getting up, "I know what you think.
                        You fancy I am trying to further my own interests in this way, but I'm not. I
                        wouldn't compromise you ultimately for all the wealth of India. I have told you where I
                        stand. Every dollar that I have is yours to do with as you choose on any basis that you may care
                        to name. I have no future outside of you, none except art. I do not expect you to marry me. Take
                        all that I have. Wipe society under your feet. Don't think that I will ever charge it
                        up as a debt. I won't. I want you to hold your own. Just answer me one question; I
                        won't ever ask another."
                    "Yes?"
                    If I were single now, and you were not in love or married, would you consider me at
                        all?"
                    His eyes pleaded as never had they pleaded before.
                    She started, looked concerned, severe, then relaxed as suddenly.
                    "Let me see," she said, with a slight brightening of the eyes and a
                        toss of her head. "That is a second cousin to a proposal, isn't it? You have
                        no right to make it. You aren't single, and aren't likely to be. Why should I
                        try to read the future?"
                    She walked" indifferently out of the room, and Cowperwood stayed a moment to
                        think. Obviously he had triumphed in a way. She had not taken great offense. She must like him
                        and would marry him if only. . . .
                    Only Aileen.
                    And now he wished more definitely and forcefully than ever that he were really and
                        truly free. He felt that if ever he wished to attain Berenice he must persuade Aileen to divorce
                        him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVII
                    AILEEN'S LAST CARD
                    IT was not until some little time after they were established in the new house that
                        Aileen first came upon any evidence of the existence of Berenice Fleming. In a general way she
                        assumed that there were womenpossibly some of she had knownStephanie, Mrs. Hand, Florence
                        Cochrane, or later arrivalsyet so long as they obtruded on her she permitted herself the
                        semi-comforting thought that things were not as bad as they might be. So long, indeed, as
                        Cowperwood was genuinely promiscuous, so long as he trotted here and there, not snared by any
                        particular siren, she could not despair, for, after all, she had
                        ensnared him and held him dehciouslywithout variation, she believed, for all of ten yearsa feat
                        which no other woman had achieved before or after. Rita Sohlberg might have succeededthe beast!
                        How she hated the thought of Rita! By this time, however, Cowperwood was getting on in years.
                        The day must come when he would be less keen for variability, or, at least, would think it no
                        longer worth while to change. If only he did not find some one woman, some Circe, who would bind
                        and enslave him in these later years as she had herself done in his earlier ones all might yet
                        be well. At the same time she lived in daily terror of a discovery which was soon to follow.
                    She had gone out one day to pay a call on some one to whom Rhees Grier, the Chicago
                        sculptor, had given her an introduction. Crossing Central Park in one of the new French machines
                        which Cowperwood had purchased for her glance wandered down a branch road to where another
                        automobile similar to her own was stalled. It was early in the afternoon, at which time
                        Cowperwood was presumably engaged in Wall Street. Yet there he was,  and with him two women, neither of whom, in the speed of passing, could
                        Aileen quite make out. She had her car halted and driven to within seeing-distance behind a
                        clump of bushes. A chauffeur whom she did not know was tinkering at a handsome machine, while on
                        the grass near by stood Cowperwood and a tall, slender girl with red hair somewhat like
                        Aileen's own. Her expression was aloof, poetic, rhapsodical. Aileen could not analyze
                        it, but it fixed her attention completely. In the tonneau sat an elderly lady, whom Aileen at
                        once assumed to be the girl's mother. Who were they? What was Cowperwood doing here in
                        the Park at this hour? Where were they going? With a horrible retch of envy she noted upon
                        Cowperwood's face a smile the like and import of which she well knew. How often she had
                        seen it years and years before! Having escaped detection, she ordered her chauffeur to follow
                        the car, which soon started, at a safe distance. She saw Cowperwood and the two ladies put down
                        at one of the great hotels, and followed them into the dining-room, where, from behind a screen,
                        after the most careful man$oEuvering, she had an opportunity of studying them at her leisure.
                        She drank in every detail of Berenice's facethe delicately pointed chin, the clear,
                        fixed blue eyes, the straight, sensitive nose and tawny hair. Calling the head waiter, she
                        inquired the names of the two women, and in return for a liberal tip was informed at once.
                        "Mrs. Ira Carter, I believe, and her daughter, Miss Fleming, Miss Berenice Fleming.
                        Mrs. Carter was Mrs. Fleming once." Aileen followed them out eventually, and in her own
                        car pursued them to their door, into which Cowperwood also disappeared. The next day, by
                        telephoning the apartment to make inquiry, she learned that they actually lived there. After a
                        few days of brooding she employed a detective, and learned that Cowperwood was a constant
                        visitor at the Carters', that the machine in which they rode was his, maintained at a
                        separate garage, and that they were of society truly. Aileen would never have followed the clue
                        so vigorously had it not been for the look she had seen Cowperwood fix on the girl in the Park
                        and in the restaurant an air of soul-hunger which could not be gainsaid.
                    Let no one ridicule the terrors of unrequited love. Its  tentacles are cancerous, its grip is of icy death. Sitting in her boudoir
                        immediately after these events, driving, walking, shopping, calling on the few with whom she had
                        managed to scrape an acquaintance, Aileen thought morning, noon, and night of this new woman.
                        The pale, delicate face haunted her. What were those eyes, so remote in their gaze, surveying?
                        Love? Cowperwood? Yes! Yes! Gone in flash and permanently, as it seemed to Aileen, was the value
                        of this house, her' dream of a new social entrance. And she had already suffered so
                        much; endured so much. Cowperwood being absent for a fortnight, she moped in her room, sighed,
                        raged, and then began to drink. Finally she sent for an actor who had once paid attention to her
                        in Chicago, and whom she had later met here in the circle of the theaters. She was not so much
                        burning with lust as determined in her drunken gloom that she would have revenge. For days there
                        followed an orgy, in which wine, bestiality, mutual recrimination, hatred, and despair were
                        involved. Sobering eventually, she wondered what Cowperwood would think of her now if he knew
                        this? Could he ever love her any more? Could he even tolerate her? But what did he care? It
                        served him right, the dog! She would show him, she would wreck his dream, she would make her own
                        life a scandal, and his too! She would shame him before all the world. He should never have a
                        divorce! He should never be able to marry a girl like that and leave her alonenever, never,
                        never! When Cowperwood returned she snarled at him without vouchsafing an explanation.
                    He suspected at once that she had been spying upon his man$oEuvers. Moreover, he did
                        not fail to notice her heavy eyes, superheated cheeks, and sickly breath. Obviously she had
                        abandoned her dream of a social victory of some kind, and was entering on a career of
                        whatdebauchery? Since coming to New York she had failed utterly, he thought, to make any single
                        intelligent move toward her social rehabilitation. The banal realms of art and the stage, with
                        which in his absence or neglect she had trifled with here, as she had done in Chicago, were
                        worse than useless; they were destructive. He must have a long talk with her one of these days,
                        must confess frankly to his  passion for Berenice,
                        and appeal to her sympathy and good sense. What scenes would follow! Yet she might succumb, at
                        that. Despair, pride, disgust might move her. Besides, he could now bestow upon her a very large
                        fortune. She could go to Europe or remain here and live in luxury. He would always remain
                        friendly with herhelpful, ad-visoryif she would permit it.
                    The conversation which eventually followed on this topic was of such stuff as dreams
                        are made of. It sounded hollow and unnatural within the walls where it took place. Consider the
                        great house in upper Fifth Avenue, its magnificent chambers aglow, of a stormy Sunday night.
                        Cowperwood was lingering in the city at this time, busy with a group of Eastern financiers who
                        were influencing his contest in the state legislature of Illinois. Aileen was momentarily
                        consoled by the thought that for him perhaps love might, after all, be a thing aparta thing no
                        longer vital and soul-controlling. To-night he was sitting in the court of orchids, reading a
                        bookthe diary of Cellini, which some one had recommended to himstopping to think now and then of
                        things in Chicago or Springfield, or to make a note. Outside the rain was splashing in torrents
                        on the electric-lighted asphalt of Fifth Avenuethe Park opposite a. Corot-like shadow. Aileen
                        was in the music-room strumming indifferently. She was thinking of times pastLynde, from whom
                        she had not heard in half a year; Watson Skeet, the sculptor, who was also out of her ken at
                        present. When Cowperwood was in the city and in the house she was accustomed from habit to
                        remain indoors or near. So great is the influence of past customs of devotion that they linger
                        long past the hour when the act ceases to become valid.
                    "What an awful night!" she observed once, strolling to a window to
                        peer out from behind a brocaded valance.
                    "It is bad, isn't it?" replied Cowperwood, as she
                        returned.
                    "Hadn't you thought of going anywhere this evening?"
                    "Nooh no," replied Aileen, indifferently. She rose restlessly from
                        the piano, and strolled on into the great picture-gallery. Stopping before one of Raphael
                        Sanzio's Holy Families, only recently hung, she paused to contemplate the serene
                        facemedieval, Madonnaesque, Italian.
                    
                    The lady seemed fragile, colorless, spinelesswithout life. Were there such women? Why
                        did artists paint them? Yet the little Christ was sweet. Art bored Aileen unless others were
                        enthusiastic. She craved only the fanfare of the livingnot painted resemblances. She returned to
                        the music-room, to the court of orchids, and was just about to go up-stairs to prepare herself a
                        drink and read a novel when Cowperwood observed:
                    "You're bored, aren't you?"
                    "Oh no; I'm used to lonely evenings," she replied, quietly
                        and without any attempt at sarcasm.
                    Relentless as he was in hewing life to his theory hammering substance to the form of
                        his thoughtyet he was tender, too, in the manner of a rainbow dancing over an abyss. For the
                        moment he wanted to say, "Poor girlie, you do have a hard time, don't you,
                        with me?" but he reflected instantly how such a remark would be received. He meditated,
                        holding his book in his hand above his knee, looking at the purling water that flowed and flowed
                        in sprinkling showers over the sportive marble figures of mermaids, a Triton, and nymphs astride
                        of fishes.
                    "You're really not happy in this state, any more, are
                        you?" he inquired. "Would you feel any more comfortable if I stayed away
                        entirely?"
                    His mind had turned of a sudden to the one problem that was fretting him and to the
                        opportunities of this hour.
                    "You would," she replied, for her
                        boredom merely concealed her unhappiness in no longer being able to command in the least his
                        interest or his sentiment.
                    "Why do you say that in just that way?" he asked.
                    "Because I know you would. I know why you ask. You know well enough that it
                        isn't anything I want to do I that is concerned. It's what you want to do.
                        You'd like to turn me off like an old horse now that you are tired of me, and so you
                        ask whether I would feel any more comfortable. What a liar you are, Frank! How really shifty you
                        are! I don't wonder you're a multimillionaire. If you could live long enough
                        you would eat up the whole world. Don't you think for one moment that I don't
                        know of Berenice Fleming here in New York, and how you're dancing attendance on
                        herbecause I do. I know  how you have been hanging
                        about her for months and months;ever since we have been here, and for long before. You think
                        she's wonderful now because she's young and in society. I've seen you
                        in the Waldorf and in the Park hanging on her every word, looking at her with adoring eyes. What
                        a fool you are, to be so big a man! Every little snip, if she has pink cheeks and a
                        doll's face, can wind you right around her finger. Rita Sohlberg did it; Stephanie
                        Platow did it; Florence Cochrane did it; Cecily Haguenin;and Heaven knows how many more that I
                        never heard of. I suppose Mrs. Hand still lives with you in Chicago;the cheap strumpet! Now
                        it's Berenice Fleming and her frump of a mother. From all I can learn you haven t been
                        able to get her yet;because her mother's too shrewd, perhaps;your money that
                        they're after. Pah! Well, I'm unhappy enough, but it isn't anything
                        you can remedy any more. Whatever you could do to make me unhappy you have done, and now you
                        talk of my being happier away from you. Clever boy, you! I know you the way I know my ten
                        fingers. You don't deceive me at any time in any way any more. I can't do
                        anything about it. I can't stop you from making a fool of yourself with every woman you
                        meet, and having people talk from one end of the country to the other. Why, for a woman to be
                        seen with you is enough to fix her reputation forever. Right now all Broadway knows
                        you're running after Berenice Fleming. Her name will soon be as sweet as those of the
                        others you've had. She might as well give herself to you. If she ever had a decent
                        reputation it's gone by now, you can depend upon that."
                    These remarks irritated Cowperwood greatlyenraged himparticularly her references to
                        Berenice. What were you to do with such a woman? he thought. Her tongue was becoming unbearable;
                        her speech in its persistence and force was that of a termagant. Surely, surely, he had made a
                        great mistake in largely in his own hands even yet, the control of her was largely in his own
                        hands even yet.
                    "Aileen," he said, coolly, at the end of her speech, "you
                        talk too much. You rave. You're growing vulgar, I believe. Now let me tell you
                        something." And he fixed her  with a hard,
                        quieting eye. "I have no apologies to make. Think what you please. I know why you say
                        what you do. But here is the point. I want you to get it straight and clear. It may make some
                        difference eventually if you're any kind of a woman at all. I don't care for
                        you any more. If you want to put it another wayI'm tired of you. I have been for a long
                        while. That's why I've run with other women. If I hadn't been tired
                        of you I wouldn't have done it. What's more, I'm in love with
                        somebody elseBerenice Fleming, and I expect to stay in love. I wish I were free so I could
                        rearrange my life on a different basis and find a little comfort before I die. You don t really
                        care for me any more. You can't. I'll admit I have treated you badly; but if I
                        had really loved you I wouldn't have done it, would I? It isn't my fault that
                        love died in me, is it? It isn't your fault. I'm not blaming you. Love
                        isn't a bunch of coals that can be blown by an artificial bellows into a name at any
                        time. It s out, and that s an end of it. Since I don't love you and can't, why
                        should you want me to stay near you? Why shouldn't you let me go and give me a divorce?
                        You'll be just as happy or unhappy away from me as with me. Why not? I want to be free
                        again. I'm miserable here, and have been for a long time. I'll make any
                        arrangement that seems fair and right to you. I'll give you this housethese pictures,
                        though I really don't see what you'd want with them." (Cowperwood had
                        no intention of giving up the gallery if he could help it.) "I'll settle on
                        you for life any income you desire, or I'll give you a fixed sum outright. I want to be
                        free, and I want you to let me be. Now why won't you be sensible and let me do
                        this?"
                    During this harangue Cowperwood had first sat and then stood. At the statement that
                        his love was really deadthe first time he had ever baldly and squarely announced itAileen had
                        paled a little and put her hand to her forehead over her eyes. It was then he had arisen. He was
                        cold, determined, a little revengeful for the moment. She realized now that he meant thisthat in
                        his heart was no least feeling for all that had gone beforeno sweet memories, no binding
                        thoughts of happy hours, days, weeks, years, that were so glittering and wonderful to her in  retrospect. Great Heavens, it was really true! His
                        love was dead; he had said it! But for the nonce she could not believe it; she would not. It
                        really couldn't be true.
                    Frank, she began, coming toward him, the while he moved away to evade her. Her eyes
                        were wide, her hands trembling, her lips moving in an emotional, wavy, rhythmic way.
                        "You really don't mean that, do you? Love isn't wholly dead, is it?
                        All the love you used to feel for me? Oh, Frank, I have raged, I have hated, I have said
                        terrible, ugly things, but it has been because I have been in love with you! All the time I
                        have. You know that. I have felt so badO God, how bad I have felt! Frank, you don't
                        know itbut my pillow has been wet many and many a night. I have cried and cried. I have got up
                        and walked the floor. I have drunk whisky plain, raw whiskybecause something hurt me and I
                        wanted to kill the pain. I have gone with other men, one after anotheryou know thatbut, oh!
                        Frank, Frank, you know that I didn't want to, that I didn't mean to! I have
                        always despised the thought of them afterward. It was only because I was lonely and because you
                        wouldn't pay any attention to me or be nice to me. Oh, how I have longed and longed for
                        just one loving hour with youone, night, one day! There are women who could suffer in silence,
                        but I can't. My mind won't let me alone, Frankmy thoughts won't. I
                        can't help thinking how I used to run to you in Philadelphia, when you would meet me on
                        your way home, or when I used to come to you in Ninth Street or on Eleventh. Oh, Frank, I
                        probably did wrong to your first wife. I see it nowhow she must have suffered! But I was just a
                        silly girl then, and I didn't know. Don't you remember how I used to come to
                        you in Ninth Street and how I saw you day after day in the penitentiary in Philadelphia? You
                        said then you would love me always and that you would never forget. Can't you love me
                        any morejust a little? Is it really true that your love is dead? Am I so old, so changed? Oh,
                        Frank, please don't say that-please don't say thatplease, don't
                        please please! I beg of you!"
                    She tried to reach him and put a hand on his arm, but he stepped aside. To him, as he
                        looked at her now, she was the antithesis of anything he could brook, let alone desire  artistically or physically. The charm was gone, the
                        spell broken. It was another type, another point of view he required, but, above all and
                        principally, youth, youththe spirit, for instance, that was in Berenice Fleming. He was sorryin
                        his way. He felt sympathy, but it was like the tinkling of a far-off sheep-bellthe moaning of a
                        whistling buoy heard over the thrash of night-black waves on a stormy sea.
                    "You don't understand how it is, Aileen," he said.
                        "I can't help myself. My love is dead. It is gone. I can't recall it.
                        I can't feel it. I wish I could, but I can't; you must understand that. Some
                        things are possible and some are not."
                    He looked at her, but with no relenting. Aileen, for her part, saw in his eyes
                        nothing, as she believed, save cold philosophic logicthe man of business, the thinker, the
                        bargainer, the plotter. At the thought of the adamantine character of his soul, which could thus
                        definitely close its gates on her for ever and ever, she became wild, angry, feverishnot quite
                        sane.
                    "Oh, don't say that!" she pleaded, foolishly.
                        "Please don't. Please don't say that. It might come back a little
                        ififyou would only believe in it. Don't you see how I feel? Don't you see how
                        it is?"
                    She dropped to her knees and clasped him about the waist. "Oh, Frank! Oh,
                        Frank! Oh, Frank!" she began to call, crying. "I can't stand it! I
                        can't! I can't! I can't! I shall die."
                    "Don't give way like that, Aileen," he pleaded.
                        "It doesn't do any good. I can't lie to myself. I don't want
                        to lie to you. Life is too short. Facts are facts. If I could say and believe that I loved you I
                        would say so now, but I can't. I don't love you. Why should I say that I
                        do?"
                    In the content of Aileen's nature was a portion that was purely histrionic,
                        a portion that was childishpetted and spoileda portion that was sheer unreason, and a portion
                        that was splendid emotiondeep, dark, involved. At this statement of Cowperwood's which
                        seemed to throw her back on herself for ever and ever to be alone, she first pleaded willingness
                        to compromiseto share. She had not fought  Stephanie
                        Platow, she had not fought Florence Cochrane, nor Cecily Haguenin, nor Mrs. Hand, nor, indeed,
                        anybody after Rita, and she would fight no more. She had not spied on him in connection with
                        Bereniceshe had accidentally met them. True, she had gone with other men, but?... Berenice was
                        beautiful, she admitted it but so was she in her way stilla little, still. Couldn't he
                        find a place for her yet in his life? Wasn't there room for both?
                    At this expression of humiliation and defeat Cowperwood was sad, sick, almost
                        nauseated. How could one argue? How make her understand?
                    "I wish it were possible, Aileen," he concluded, finally and
                        heavily, "but it isn't."
                    All at once she arose, her eyes red but dry.
                    "You don't love me, then, at all, do you? Not a bit?"
                    "No, Aileen, I don't. I don't mean by that that I dislike
                        you. I don't mean to say that you aren't interesting in your way as a woman
                        and that I don't sympathize with you. I do. But I don't love you any more. I
                        can't. The thing I used to feel I can't feel any more."
                    She paused for a moment, uncertain how to take this, the while she whitened, grew
                        more tense, more spiritual than she had been in many a day. Now she felt desperate, angry, sick,
                        but like the scorpion that ringed by fire can turn only on itself. What a hell life was, she
                        told herself. How it slipped away and left one aging, horribly alone! Love was nothingnothing,
                        nothing!
                    A fine light of conviction, intensity, intention lit her eye for the moment.
                        "Very well, then," she said, coolly, tensely. "I know what
                        I'll do. I'll not live this way. I'll not live beyond to-night. I
                        want to die, anyhow, and I will."
                    It was by no means a cry, this last, but a calm statement. It should prove her love.
                        To Cowperwood it seemed unreal, bravado, a momentary rage intended to frighten him. She turned
                        and walked up the grand staircase, which was neara splendid piece of marble and bronze fifteen
                        feet wide, with marble nereids for newel-posts, and dancing figures worked into the stone. She
                        went into her room quite calmly and took up a steel paper-cutter of dagger designa knife with a
                        handle of bronze and a point of  great sharpness.
                        Coming out and going along the balcony over the court of orchids, where Cowperwood still was
                        seated, she entered the sunrise room with its pool of water, its birds, its benches, its vines.
                        Locking the door, she sat down and then, suddenly baring an arm, jabbed a veinripped it for
                        inchesand sat there to bleed. Now she would see whether she could die, whether he would let her.
                    Uncertain, astonished, not able to believe that she could be so rash, not believing
                        that her feeling could be so great, Cowperwood still remained where she had left him wondering.
                        He had not been so greatly movedthe tantrums of women were commonand yet Could she really be
                        contemplating death? How could she? How ridiculous! Life was so strange, so mad. But this was
                        Aileen who had just made this threat, and she had gone up the stairs to carry it out, perhaps.
                        Impossible! How could it be? Yet back of all his doubts there was a kind of sickening feeling, a
                        dread. He recalled how she had assaulted Rita Sohlberg.
                    He hurried up the steps now and into her room. She was not there. He went quickly
                        along the balcony, look-must be there, for the door was shut. He tried itit was locked.
                    "Aileen," he called. "Aileen! Are you in there?"
                        No answer. He listened. Still no answer. "Aileen!" he repeated. "Are
                        you in there? What damned nonsense is this, anyhow?"
                    "George!" he thought to himself, stepping back; "she might
                        do it, tooperhaps she has." He could not hear anything save the odd chattering of a
                        toucan aroused by the light she had switched on. Perspiration stood out on his brow. He shook
                        the knob, pushed a bell for a servant, called for keys which had been made for every door,
                        called for a chisel and hammer.
                    "Aileen," he said, "if you don't open the door
                        this instant I will see that it is opened. It can be opened quick enough."
                    Still no sound.
                    "Damn it!" he exclaimed, becoming wretched, horrified. A servant
                        brought the keys. The right one would not enter. A second was on the other side. "There
                        is a  bigger hammer somewhere," Cowperwood
                        said. "Get it! Get me a chair!" Meantime, with terrific energy, using a large
                        chisel, he forced the door.
                    There on one of the stone benches of the lovely room sat Aileen, the level pool of
                        water before her, the glow over everything, tropic birds in their branches, and she, her hair
                        disheveled, her face pale, one armher lefthanging down, ripped and bleeding, trickling a thick
                        stream of rich, red blood. On the floor was a pool of blood, fierce, scarlet, like some rich
                        cloth, already turning darker in places.
                    Cowperwood pausedamazed. He hurried forward, seized her arm, made a bandage of a torn
                        handkerchief above the wound, sent for a surgeon, saying the while: "How could you,
                        Aileen? How impossible! To try to take your life! This isn't love. It isn't
                        even madness. It's foolish acting."
                    "Don't you really care?" she asked.
                    "How can you ask? How could you really do this?"
                    He was angry, hurt, glad that she was alive, shamedmany things.
                    "Don't you really care?" she repeated, wearily.
                    "Aileen, this is nonsense. I will not talk to you about it now. Have you cut
                        yourself anywhere else?" he asked, feeling about her bosom and sides.
                    "Then why not let me die?" she replied, in the same manner.
                        "I will some day, I want to."
                    "Well, you may, some day," he replied, "but not tonight. I
                        scarcely think you want to now. This is too much, Aileenreally impossible."
                    He drew himself up and looked at hercool, unbelieving, the light of control, even of
                        victory, in his eyes. As he had suspected, it was not truly real. She would not have killed
                        herself. She had expected him to cometo make the old effort. Very good. He would see her safely
                        in bed and in a nurse s hands, and would then avoid her as much as possible in the future. If
                        her intention was genuine she would carry it out in his absence, but he did not believe she
                        would.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVIII
                    A MARAUDER UPON THE COMMONWEALTH
                    THE spring and summer months of 1897 and the late fall of 1898 witnessed the final
                        closing battle between Frank Algernon Cowperwood and the forces inimical to him in so far as the
                        city of Chicago, the state of Illinois, and indeed the United States of America, were concerned.
                        When in 1896 a new governor and a new group of state representatives were installed Cowperwood
                        decided that it would be advisable to continue the struggle at once. By the time this new
                        legislature should convene for its labors a year would have passed since Governor Swanson had
                        vetoed the original public-service-commission bill. By that time public sentiment as aroused by
                        the newspapers would have had time to cool. Already through various favorable financial
                        interestsparticularly Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb & Co. and all the subsurface forces they
                        representedhe had attempted to influence the incoming governor, and had in part succeeded.
                    The new governor in this instanceone Corporal A. E. Archeror ex-Congressman Archer,
                        as he was sometimes calledwas, unlike Swanson, a curious mixture of the commonplace and the
                        idealone of those shiftily loyal and loyally shifty who make their upward way by devious, if not
                        too reprehensible methods. He was a little man, stocky, brown-haired, brown-eyed, vigorous,
                        witty, with the ordinary politician's estimate of public moralitynamely, that there is
                        no such thing. A drummer-boy at fourteen in the War of the Rebellion, a private at sixteen and
                        eighteen, he had subsequently been breveted for conspicuous military service. At this later time
                        he was head of the Grand Army of the Republic, and conspicuous in various stirring eleemosynary
                        efforts on behalf of the  old soldiers, their widows
                        and orphans. A fine American, flag-waving, tobacco-chewing, foul-swearning little man was
                        thisand one with noteworthy political ambitions. Other Grand Army men had been conspicuous in
                        the lists for Presidential nominations. Why not he? An excellent orator in a high falsetto way,
                        and popular because of good-fellowship, presence, force, he was by nature materially and
                        commercially mindedtherefore without basic appeal to the higher ranks of intelligence. In
                        seeking the nomination for governorship he had made the usual overtures and had in turn been
                        sounded by Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb, and various other corporate interests who were in league with
                        Cowperwood as to his attitude in regard to a proposed public-service commission. At first he had
                        refused to commit himself. Later, finding that the C. W. & I. and the Chicago &
                        Pacific (very powerful railroads both) were interested, and that other candidates were running
                        him a tight chase m the gubernatorial contest, he succumbed in a measure, declaring privately
                        that in case the legislature proved to be strongly in favor of the idea and the newspapers not
                        too crushingly opposed he might be willing to stand as its advocate. Other candidates expressed
                        similar views, but Corporal Archer proved to have the greater following, and was eventually
                        nominated and comfortably elected.
                    Shortly after the new legislature had convened, it so chanced that a certain A. S.
                        Rotherhite, publisher of the South Chicago Journal, was one day
                        accidentally sitting as a visitor in the seat of a state representative by the name of Clarence
                        Mulligan." While so occupied Rotherhite was familiarly slapped on the back by a certain
                        Senator Ladrigo, of Menard, and was invited to come out into the rotunda, where, posing as
                        Representative Mulligan, he was introduced by Senator Ladrigo to a stranger by the name of
                        Gerard. The latter, with but few preliminary remarks, began as follows:
                    "Mr. Mulligan, I want to fix it with you in regard to this Southack bill
                        which is soon to come up in the house. We have seventy votes, but we want ninety. The fact that
                        the bill has gone to a second reading in the senate shows our strength. I am authorized to come
                        to terms with you  this morning if you would like.
                        Your vote is worth two thousand dollars to you the moment the bill is signed."
                    Mr. Rotherhite, who happened to be a newly recruited member of the Opposition press,
                        proved very canny in this situation.
                    "Excuse me," he stammered, "I did not understand your
                        name?"
                    "Gerard. G-er-ard. Henry A. Gerard," replied this other.
                    "Thank you. I will think it over," was the response of the presumed
                        Representative Mulligan.
                    Strange to state, at this very instant the authentic Mulligan actually
                        appearedheralded aloud by several of his colleagues who happened to be lingering near by in the
                        lobby. Whereupon the anomalous Mr. Gerard and the crafty Senator Ladrigo discreetly withdrew.
                        Needless to say that Mr. Rotherhite hurried at once to the forces of righteousness. The press
                        should spread this little story broadcast. It was a very meaty incident; and it brought the
                        whole matter once more into the fatal, poisonous field of press discussion.
                    At once the Chicago papers flew to arms. The cry was raised that the same old
                        sinister Cowperwoodian forces were at work. The members of the senate and the house were
                        solemnly warned. The sterling attitude of ex-Governor Swanson was held up as an example to the
                        present Governor Archer. "The whole idea," observed an editorial in Truman
                        Leslie MacDonald's Inquirer, "smacks of
                        chicane, political subtlety, and political jugglery. Well do the citizens of Chicago and the
                        people of Illinois know who and what particular organization would prove the true beneficiaries.
                        We do not want a public-service commission at the behest of a private street-railway
                        corporation. Are the tentacles of Frank A. Cowperwood to envelop this legislature as they did
                        the last?"
                    This broadside, coming in conjunction with various hostile rumblings in other papers,
                        aroused Cowperwood to emphatic language.
                    "They can all go to the devil," he said to Addison, one day at
                        lunch. "I have a right to an extension of my franchises for fifty years, and I am going
                        to get it. Look  at New York and Philadelphia. Why,
                        the Eastern houses laugh. They don't understand such a situation. It's all the
                        inside work of this Hand-Schryhart crowd. I know what they're doing and who's
                        pulling the strings. The newspapers yap-yap every time they give an order. Hyssop waltzes every
                        time Arneel moves. Little MacDonld is a stool-pigeon for Hand. It's got down so low now
                        that it's anything to beat Cowperwood. Well, they won't beat me. I'll
                        find a way out. The legislature will pass a bill allowing for a fifty-year franchise, and the
                        governor will sign it. I'll see to that personally. I have at least eighteen thousand
                        stockholders who want a decent run for their money, and I propose to give it to them.
                        Aren't other men getting rich? Aren't other corporations earning ten and
                        twelve per cent.? Why shouldn't I? Is Chicago any the worse? Don't I employ
                        twenty thousand men and pay them well? All this palaver about the rights of the people and the
                        duty to the publicrats! Does Mr. Hand acknowledge any duty to the public where his special
                        interests are concerned? Or Mr. Schryhart? Or Mr. Arneel? The newspapers be damned! I know my
                        rights. An honest legislature will give me a decent franchise to save me from the local
                        political sharks."
                    By this time, however, the newspapers had become as subtle and powerful as the
                        politicians themselves. Under the great dome of the capitol at Springfield, in the halls and
                        conference chambers of the senate and house, in the hotels, and m the rural districts wherever
                        any least into see, to listen, to pry. Out of this contest they were gaining prestige and cash.
                        By them were the reform aldermen persuaded to call mass-meetings in their respective districts.
                        Property-owners were urged to organize; a committee or one hundred prominent citizens led by
                        Hand and Schryhart was formed. It was not long before the halls, chambers, and committee-rooms
                        of the capitol at Springfield and the corridors of the one principal hotel were being tramped
                        over almost daily by rampant delegations of ministers, reform aldermen, and civil committeemen,
                        who arrived speechifying, threatening, and haranguing, and departed, only to make room for
                        another relay.
                    
                    "Say, what do you think of these delegations, Senator?" inquired a
                        certain Representative Greenough of Senator George Christian, of Grundy, one morning, the while
                        a group of Chicago clergymen accompanied by the mayor and several distinguished private citizens
                        passed through the rotunda on their way to the committee on railroads, where the house bill was
                        privily being discussed. "Don't you think they speak well for our civic pride
                        and moral upbringing?" He raised his eyes and crossed his fingers over his waistcoat in
                        the most sanctimonious and reverential attitude.
                    "Yes, dear Pastor," replied the irreverent Christian, without the
                        shadow of a smile. He was a little sallow, wiry man with eyes like a ferret, a small mustache
                        and goatee ornamenting his face. "But do not forget that the Lord has called us also to
                        this work."
                    "Even so," acquiesced Greenough. "We must not weary in
                        well doing. The harvest is truly plenteous and the laborers are few."
                    "Tut, tut, Pastor. Don't overdo it. You might make me
                        larf," replied Christian; and the twain parted with knowing and yet weary smiles.
                    Yet how little did the accommodating attitude of these gentlemen avail in silencing
                        the newspapers, The damnable newspapers! They were here, there, and everywhere reporting each
                        least fragment of rumor, conversation, or imaginary programme. Never did the citizens of Chicago
                        receive so keen a drilling in statecraftits subtleties and nullifications. The president of the
                        senate and the speaker of the house were singled out and warned separately as to their duty. A
                        page a day devoted to legislative proceeding in this quarter was practically the custom of the
                        situation. Cowperwood was here personally on the scene, brazen, defiant, logical, the courage of
                        his convictions in his eyes, the power of his magnetism fairly enslaving men. Throwing oft the
                        mask of disinterestednessif any might be said to have covered himhe now frankly came out in the
                        open and, journeying to Springfield, took quarters at the principal hotel. Like a general in
                        time of battle, he marshaled his forces about him. In the warm, moonlit atmosphere of June
                        nights when the streets of Springfield were  quiet,
                        the great plain of Illinois bathed for hundreds of miles from north to south in a sweet
                        effulgence and the rurals slumbering in their simple homes, he sat conferring with his lawyers
                        and legislative agents.
                    Pity in such a crisis the poor country-jake legislator torn between his desire for
                        justifiable and expedient gain and his "ear lest he should be assailed as betrayer of
                        the people's interests. To some of these small-town legislators, who had never seen as
                        much as two thousand dollars in cash in all their days, the problem was soul-racking. Men
                        gathered in private rooms and hotel parlors to discuss it. They stood in their rooms at night
                        and thought about it alone. The sight of big business compelling its desires the while the
                        people went begging was destructive. Many a romantic, illusioned, idealistic young country
                        editor, lawyer, or bribe-taker. Men were robbed of every vestige of faith or even of charity
                        they came to feel, perforce, that there was nothing outside the capacity for taking and keeping.
                        The surface might appear commonplaceordinary men of the state of Illinois going here and
                        theresimple farmers and small-town senators and representatives conferring and meditating and
                        wondering what they could doyet a. jungle-like complexity was present, a dark, rank growth of
                        horrific but avid lifelife at the full, life knife in hand, life blazing with courage and
                        dripping at the jaws with hunger.
                    However, because of the terrific uproar the more cautious legislators were by degrees
                        becoming fearful. Friends in their home towns, at the instigation of the papers, were beginning
                        to write them. Political enemies were taking heart. It meant too much of a sacrifice on the part
                        of everybody. In spite of the fact that the bait was apparently within easy reach, many became
                        evasive and disturbed. When a certain Representative Sparks, cocked and primed, with the bill in
                        his pocket, arose upon the floor of the house, asking leave to have it spread upon the minutes,
                        there was an instant explosion. The privilege of the floor was requested by a hundred. Another
                        representative, Disback, being in charge of the opposition to Cowperwood, had made a count of
                        noses and was satisfied in spite of all subtlety on the part of the enemy that he had at  least one hundred and two votes, the necessary
                        two-thirds wherewith to crush any measure which might originate on the floor. Nevertheless, his
                        followers, because of caution, voted it to a second and a third reading. All sorts of amendments
                        were madeone for a three-cent fare during the rush-hours another for a 20 per cent, tax on gross
                        receipts. In amended form the measure was sent to the senate, where the changes were stricken
                        out and the bill once more returned to the house. Hero, to Cowperwood's chagrin signs
                        were made manifest that it could not be passed. "It can't be done,
                        Frank," said Judge Dickensheets. It's too grilling a game. Their home papers
                        are after them. They can't live."
                    Consequently a second measure was devisedmore soothing and lulling to the newspapers,
                        but far less satisfactory to Cowperwood. It conferred upon the Chicago City Council, by a trick
                        of revising the old Horse and Dummy Act of 1865, the right to grant a franchise for fifty
                        instead of for twenty years. This meant that Cowperwood would have to return to Chicago and
                        fight out his battle there. It was a severe blow, yet better than nothing. Providing that he
                        could win one more franchise battle within the walls of the city council in Chicago, it would
                        give him all that he desired. But could he? Had he not come here to the legislature especially
                        to evade such a risk? His motives were enduring such a blistering exposure. Yet perhaps, after
                        all, if the price were large enough the these country legislatorswould dare more. They would
                        have to.
                    So, after Heaven knows what desperate whisperings, conferences, arguments, and
                        heartening of members, there was originated a second measure whichafter the defeat of the first
                        bill, 104 to 49was introduced, by way of a very complicated path, through the judiciary
                        committee. It was passed; and Governor Archer, after heavy hours of contemplation and
                        self-examination, signed it. A little man mentally, he failed to estimate an aroused popular
                        fury at its true import to him. At his elbow was Cowperwood in the clear light of day, snapping
                        his fingers in the face of his enemies, showing by the hard, cheerful  glint in his eye that he was still master of the situation, giving
                        all assurance that he would yet live to whip the Chicago papers into submission. Besides, in the
                        event of the passage of the bill, Cowperwood had promised to make Archer independently richa
                        cash reward of five hundred thousand dollars.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIX
                    CAPITAL AND PUBLIC RIGHTS
                    BETWEEN the passage on June 5, 1897,of the Mears billso christened after the doughty
                        representative who had received a small fortune for introducing itand its presentation to the
                        Chicago City Council in December of the same year, what broodings, plottings, politickings, and
                        editorializing on the part of all and sundry! In spite of the intense feeling of opposition to
                        Cowperwood there was at the same time in local public life one stratum of commercial and
                        phlegmatic substance that could not view him in an altogether unfavorable light. They were in
                        business themselves. His lines passed their doors and served them. They could not see wherein
                        his street-railway service differed so much from that which others might give. Here was the type
                        of materialist who in Cowperwood's defiance saw a justification of his own material
                        point of view and was not afraid to say so. But as against these there were the preachers
                        wind-blown sticks of unreason who saw only what the current palaver seemed to indicate. Again
                        there were the anarchists, socialists, singletaxers, and public-ownership advocates. There were
                        the very poor who saw in Cowperwood's wealth and in the fabulous stories of his New
                        York home and of his art-collection a heartless exploitation of their needs. At this time the
                        feeling was spreading broadcast in America that great political and economic changes were at
                        handthat the tyranny of iron masters at the top was to give way to a richer, freer, happier life
                        for the rank and file. A national eight-hour-day law was being advocated, and the public
                        ownership of public franchises. And here now was a great street-railway corporation, serving a
                        population of a million and a half, occupying streets which the people themselves  created by their presence, taking toll from all
                        these humble citizens to the amount of sixteen or eighteen millions of dollars in the year and
                        giving in return, so the papers said, poor service, shabby cars, no seats at rush-hours, no
                        universal transfer(as a matter of fact, there were in operation three hundred and sixty-two
                        separate transfer points) and no adequate tax on the immense sums earned. The workingman who
                        read this by gas or lamp light in the kitchen or parlor of his shabby flat or cottage, and who
                        read also in other sections of his paper of the free, reckless, glorious lives of the rich, felt
                        himself to be defrauded of a portion of his rightful inheritance. It was all a question of
                        compelling Frank A. Cowperwood to do his duty by Chicago. He must not be allowed to bribe the
                        aldermen; he must not be allowed to have a fifty-year franchise, the privilege of granting which
                        he had already bought from the state legislature by the degradation or honest men. He must be
                        made to succumb, to yield to the force of law and order. It was claimed with a justice of which
                        those who made the charge were by no means fully awarethat the Mears bill had been put through
                        the house and senate by the use of cold cash, proffered even to the governor himself. No legal
                        proof of this was obtainable, but Cowperwood was assumed to be a briber on a giant scale. By the
                        newspaper cartoons he was represented as a pirate commander ordering his men to scuttle another
                        vesselthe ship of Public Rights. He was pictured as a thief, a black mask over his eyes, and as
                        a seducer, throttling Chicago, the fair maiden, while he stole her purse. The fame of this
                        battle was by now becoming world-wide. In Montreal, in Cape Town, in Buenos Ayres and Melbourne,
                        in London and Pans, men were reading of this singular struggle. At last, and truly, he was a
                        national and international figure. His original dream, however, modified by circumstances, had
                        literally been fulfilled.
                    Meanwhile be it admitted that the local elements in finance which had brought about
                        this terrific onslaught on Cowperwood were not a little disturbed as to the eventual character
                        of the child of their own creation. Here at last was a public opinion definitely inimical to
                        Cowperwood; but here also were they themselves, tremendous profit-holders,  with a desire for just such favors as Cowperwood himself had exacted,
                        deliberately setting out to kill the goose that could lay the golden egg. Men such as
                        Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb, Fishel, tremendous capitalists in the East and foremost in the
                        directorates of huge transcontinental lines, international banking-houses, and the like, were
                        amazed that the newspapers and the anti-Cowperwood element should have gone so far in Chicago.
                        Had they no respect for capital? Did they not know that long-time franchises were practically
                        the basis of all modern capitalistic prosperity? Such theories as were now being advocated here
                        would spread to other cities unless checked. America might readily become
                        anti-capitalisticsocialistic. Public ownership might appear as a workable theoryand then what?
                    "Those men out there are very foolish," observed Mr. Haeckelheimer
                        at one time to Mr. Fishel, of Fishel, Stone & Symons. "I can't see
                        that Mr. Cowperwood is differ-perfectly sound and able. All his companies pay. There are no
                        better investments than the North and West Chicago railways. It would be advisable, in my
                        judgment, that all the lines out there should be consolidated and be put in his charge. He would
                        make money for the stockholders. He seems to know how to run street-railways."
                    "You know," replied Mr. Fishel, as smug and white as Mr.
                        Haeckelheimer, and in thorough sympathy with his point of view, "I have been thinking
                        of something like that myself. All this quarreling should be hushed up. It's very bad
                        for businessvery. Once they get that public-ownership nonsense started, it will be hard to stop.
                        There has been too much of it already."
                    Mr. Fishel was stout and round like Mr. Haeckelheimer, but much smaller. He was
                        little more than a walking mathematical formula. In his cranium were financial theorems and
                        syllogisms of the second, third, and fourth power only.
                    And now behold a new trend of affairs. Mr. Timothy Arneel, attacked by pneumonia,
                        dies and leaves his holdings in Chicago City to his eldest son, Edward Arneel. Mr. Fishel and
                        Mr. Haeckelheimer, through agents and then direct, approach Mr. Merrill in behalf of Cowperwood.
                        There  is much talk of profitshow much more
                        profitable has been the Cowperwood r$eAgime over street-railway lines than that of Mr.
                        Schryhart. Mr. Fishel is interested in allaying socialistic excitement. So, by this time, is Mr.
                        Merrill. Directly hereafter Mr. Haeckelheimer approaches Mr. Edward Arneel, who is not nearly so
                        forceful as his father, though he would like to be so. He, strange to relate, has come rather to
                        admire Cowperwood and sees no advantage in a policy that can only tend to municipalize local
                        lines. Mr. Merrill, for Mr. Fishel, approaches Mr. Hand. "Never! never!
                        never!" says Hand. Mr. Haeckelheimer approaches Mr. Hand. "Never! never!
                        never! To the devil with Mr. Cowperwood!" But as a final emissary for Mr. Haeckelheimer
                        and Mr. Fishel there now appears Mr. Morgan Frankhauser, the partner of Mr. Hand in a
                        seven-million-dollar traction scheme in Minneapolis and St. Paul. Why will Mr. Hand be so
                        persistent? Why pursue a scheme of revenge which only stirs up the masses and makes municipal
                        ownership a valid political idea, thus disturbing capital elsewhere? Why not trade his Chicago
                        holdings to him, Frankhauser, for Pittsburg traction stockshare and share alikeand then fight
                        Cowperwood all he pleases on the outside?
                    Mr. Hand, puzzled, astounded, scratching his round head, slaps a heavy hand on his
                        desk. "Never!" he exclaims. "Never, by Godas long as I am alive and
                        in Chicago!" And then he yields. Life does shifty things, he is forced to reflect in a
                        most puzzled way. Never would he have believed it! "Schryhart," he declared to
                        Frankhauser, "will never come in. He will die first. Poor old Timothyif he were alivehe
                        wouldn't either."
                    "Leave Mr. Schryhart out of it, for Heaven's sake,"
                        pleaded Mr. Frankhauser, a genial American German. "Haven't I troubles
                        enough?"
                    Mr. Schryhart is enraged. Never! never! never! He will sell out firstbut he is in a
                        minority, and Mr. Frankhauser, for Mr. Fishel or Mr. Haeckelheimer, will gladly take his
                        holdings.
                    Now behold in the autumn of 1897 all rival Chicago street-railway lines brought to
                        Mr. Cowperwood on a platter, as it werea golden platter.
                    
                    "Ve haff it fixed," confidentially declared Mr. Gotloeb to Mr.
                        Cowperwood, over an excellent dinner in the sacred precincts of the Metropolitan Club in New
                        York. Time, 8.30 P.M. Winesparkling burgundy. "A telegram come shusst to-day from
                        Frankhauser. A nice man dot. You shouldt meet him sometime. Hanthe sells out his stock to
                        Frankhauser. Merrill unt Edward Arneel vork vit us. Ve hantle efferyt'ing for dem. Mr.
                        Fishel vill haff his friends pick up all de local shares he can, unt mit dees tree ve control de
                        board. Schryhart iss out. He sess he vill resign. Very goot. I don't subbose dot vill
                        make you veep any. It all hintges now on vether you can get dot fifty-year-franchise ordinance
                        troo de city council or not. Haeckelheimer sess he prefers you to all utters to'run
                        t'ingsl He vill leef everytink positifely in your hands. Frankhauser sess de same. Vot
                        Haeckelheimer sess he doess. Now dere you are. It's up to you. I vish you much choy. It
                        is no small chop you haff, beating de newspapers, unt you still haff Hant unt Schryhart against
                        you. Mr. Haeckel-heimer askt me to pay his complimends to you unt to say vill you dine vit him
                        next veek, or may he dine vit you vicheffer iss most conveniend. So."
                    In the mayor's chair of Chicago at this time sat a man named Walden H.
                        Lucas. Aged thirty-eight, he was politically ambitious. He had the elements of popularitythe
                        knack or luck of fixing public attention. A fine, upstanding, healthy young buck he was, subtle,
                        vigorous, a cool, direct, practical thinker and speaker, an eager enigmatic dreamer of great
                        political honors to come, anxious to play his cards just right, to make friends, to be the pride
                        of the righteous, and yet the not too uncompromising foe of the wicked. In short, a youthful,
                        hopeful Western Machiavelli, and one who could, if he chose, serve the cause of the
                        anti-Cowperwood struggle exceedingly well indeed.
                    Cowperwood, disturbed, visits the mayor in his office.
                    "Mr. Lucas, what is it you personally want? What can I do for you? Is it
                        future political preferment you are after?"
                    "Mr. Cowperwood, there isn't anything you can do for You do not
                        understand me, and I do not understand  you. You
                        cannot understand me because I am an honest man."
                    "Ye gods!" replied Cowperwood. "This is certainly a case
                        or self-esteem and great knowledge. Good afternoon."
                    Shortly thereafter the mayor was approached by one Mr. Carker, who was the shrewd,
                        cold, and yet magnetic leader of Democracy in the state of New York. Said Carker:
                    "You see, Mr. Lucas, the great money houses of the Rast are interested in
                        this local contest here in Chicago. For example, Haeckelheimer, Gotloeb & Co. would like
                        to see a consolidation of all the lines on a basis that will make them an attractive investment
                        for buyers generally and will at the same time be fair and right to the city. A twentyyear
                        contract is much too short a term in their eyes. Fifty is the least they could comfortably
                        contemplate, and they would prefer a hundred. It is little enough for so great an outlay. The
                        policy now being pursued here can lead only to the public ownership of public utilities, and
                        that is something which the national democratic party at large can certainly not afford to
                        advocate at present. It would antagonize the money element from coast to coast. Any man whose
                        political record was definitely identified with such a movement would have no possible chance at
                        even a state nomination, let alone a national one. He could never be elected. I make myself
                        clear, do I not?"
                    "You do."
                    "A man can just as easily be taken from the mayor's office in
                        Chicago as from the governor's office at Springfield," pursued Mr. Carker.
                        "Mr. Haeckelheimer and Mr. Fishel have personally asked me to call on you. If you want
                        to be mayor of Chicago again for two years or governor next year, until the time for picking a
                        candidate for the Presidency arrives, suit yourself. In the mean time you will be unwise, in my
                        judgment, to saddle yourself with this publicownership idea. The newspapers in fighting Mr.
                        Cowperwood have raised an issue which never should have been raised."
                    After Mr. Carker's departure, arrived Mr. Edward Arneel, of local renown,
                        and then Mr. Jacob Bethal, the Democratic leader in San Francisco, both offering suggestions  which if followed might result in mutual support.
                        There were in addition delegations of powerful Republicans from Minneapolis and from
                        Philadelphia. Even the president of the Lake City Bank and the president of the Prairie
                        Nationalonce anti-Cowperwoodarrived to say what had already been said. So it went. Mr. Lucas was
                        greatly nonplussed. A political career was surely a difficult thing to effect. Would it pay to
                        harry Mr. Cowperwood as he had set out to do? Would a steadfast policy advocating the cause of
                        the people get him anywhere? Would they be grateful? Would they remember? Suppose the current
                        policy of the newspapers should be modified, as Mr. Carker had suggested that it might be. What
                        a mess and tangle politics really were!
                    "Well, Bessie," he inquired of his handsome, healthy, semiblonde
                        wife, one evening, "what would you do if you were I?"
                    She was grayeyed, gay, practical, vain, substantially connected in so far as family
                        went, and proud of her husband's position and future. He had formed the habit of
                        talking over his various difficulties with her.
                    "Well, I'll tell you, Wally," she replied.
                        "You've got to stick to something. It looks to me as though the winning side
                        was with the people this time. I don't see how the newspapers can change now after all
                        they've done. You don't have to advocate public ownership or anything unfair
                        to the money element, but just the same I'd stick to my point that the fifty-year
                        franchise is too much. You ought to make them pay the city something and get their franchise
                        without bribery. They can't do less than that. I'd stick to the course
                        you've begun on. You can't get along without the people, Wally. You"
                        just must have them. If you lose their good will the politicians can't help you much,
                        nor anybody else."
                    Plainly there were times when the people had to be considered. They just had to be!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LX
                    THE NET
                    THE storm which burst in connection with Cowperwood's machinations at
                        Springfield early in 1897 and continued without abating until the following fall, attracted such
                        general attention that it was largely reported in the Eastern papers. F. A. Cowperwood versus the state of Illinoisthus one New York daily phrased the
                        situation. The magnetizing power of fame is great. Who can resist utterly the luster that
                        surrounds the individualities of some men, causing them to glow with a separate and special
                        effulgence? Even in the case of Berenice this was not without its value. In a Chicago paper
                        which she found lying one day on a desk which Cowperwood had occupied was an extended editorial
                        which interested her greatly. After reciting his various misdeeds, particularly in connection
                        with the present state legislature, it went on to say:"He has an innate, chronic,
                        unconquerable contempt for the rank and file. Men are but slaves and thralls to draw for him the
                        chariot of his greatness. Never in all his history has he seen fit to go to the people direct
                        for anything. In Philadelphia, when he wanted publicfranchise control, he sought privily and by
                        chicane to arrange his affairs with a venal city treasurer. In Chicago he has uniformly sought
                        to buy and convert to his own use the splendid privileges of the city, which should really
                        redound to the benefit of all. Frank Algernon Cowperwood does not believe in the people; he does
                        not trust them. To him they constitute no more than a field upon which corn is to be sown, and
                        from which it is to be reaped. They present but a mass of bent backs, their knees and faces in
                        the mire, over which as over a floor he strides to superiority. His private and inmost faith is
                        in himself alone. Upon the majority he  shuts the
                        gates of his glory in order that the sight of their misery and their needs may not disturb nor
                        alloy his selfish bliss. Frank Algernon Cowperwood does not believe in the people."
                    This editorial battle-cry, flung aloft during the latter days of the contest at
                        Springfield and taken up by the Chicago papers generally and by those elsewhere, interested
                        Berenice greatly. As she thought of him-waging his terrific contests, hurrying to and fro
                        between New York and Chicago, building his splendid mansion, collecting his pictures, quarreling
                        with Aileenhe came by degrees to take How could the ordinary rules of life or the accustomed
                        paths of men be expected to control him? They could not and did not. And here he was pursuing
                        her, seeking her out with his eyes, grateful for a smile, waiting as much as he dared on her
                        every wish and whim.
                    Say what one will, the wish buried deep in every woman's heart is that her
                        lover should be a hero. Some, out of the veriest stick or stone, fashion the idol before which
                        they kneel, others demand the hard reality of greatness; but in either case the illusion of
                        paragon-workship is maintained.
                    Berenice, by no means ready to look upon Cowperwood as an accepted lover, was
                        nevertheless gratified that his erring devotion was the tribute of one able apparently to
                        command thought from the whole world. Moreover, be-cause the New York papers had taken fire from
                        his great struggle in the Middle West and were charging him with bribery, perjury, and intent to
                        thwart the will of the people, Cowperwood now came forward with an attempt to explain his exact
                        position to Berenice and to justify himself in her eyes. During vists ti the Carter house or in
                        entr'actes at the opera or the theater, he recounted to her bit by bit his entire
                        history. He described the characters of Hand, Schryhart, Arneel, and the motives of jealousy and
                        revenge which had led to their attack upon him in Chicago.
                    "No human being could get anything through the Chicago City Council without
                        paying for it," he declared. "It's simply a question of
                        who's putting up the money." He told how Truman Leslie MacDonald had once
                        tried to "shake him down" for fifty thousand dollars, and how the  newspapers had since found it possible to make
                        money, to increase their circulation, by attacking him. He frankly admitted the fact of his
                        social ostracism, attributing it partially to Aileen's deficiencies and partially to
                        his own attitude of Promethean defiance, which had never yet brooked defeat.
                    "And I will defeat them now," he said, solemnly, to Berenice one
                        day over a luncheontable at the Plaza when the room was nearly empty. His gray eyes were a study
                        in colossal enigmatic spirit. "The governor hasn't signed my fiftyyear
                        franchise bill" (this was before the closing events at Springfield), "but he
                        will sign it. Then I have one more fight ahead of me. I'm going to combine all the
                        traffic lines out there under one general system. I am the logical person to provide it. Later
                        on, if public ownership ever arrives, the city can buy it."
                    "And then" asked Berenice sweetly, nattered by his confidences.
                    "Oh, I don't know. I suppose I'll live abroad. You
                        don't seem to be very much interested m me. I'II finish my picture
                        collection"
                    "But supposing you should loser?"
                    "I don't contemplate losing," he remarked, coolly.
                    "Whatever happens, I'I'II have enough to live on.
                        I'm a little tired of contest."
                    He smiled, but Berenice saw that the thought of defeat was a gray one. With victory
                        was his heart, and only there.
                    Owing to the national publicity being given to Cowperwood's affairs at this
                        time the effect upon Berenice of these conversations with him was considerable. At the same time
                        another and somewhat sinister influence was working in his favor. By slow degrees she and her
                        mother were coming to learn that the ultraconservatives of society were no longer willing to
                        accept them. Berenice had become at last too individual a figure to be overlooked. At an
                        important luncheon given by the Harris Haggertys, some five months after the Beales Chadsey
                        affair, she had been pointed out to Mrs. Haggerty by a visiting guest from Cincinnati as some
                        one with whom rumor was concerning itself Mrs Haggerty wrote to friend in Louisville for
                        information, and received it. Shortly after, at the comingout  party of a certain Geraldine Borga, Berenice, who had been her
                        sister's schoolmate, was curiously omitted. She took sharp note of that. Subsequently
                        the Haggertys failed to include her, as they had always done before, in their generous summer
                        invitations. This was true also of the Lanman Zeiglers and the Lucas Demmigs. No direct affront
                        was offered; she was simply no longer invited. Also one morning she read in the Tribune that Mrs. Corscaden Batjer had sailed for Italy. No word of this
                        had been sent to Berenice. Yet Mrs. Batjer was supposedly one of her best friends. A hint to
                        some is of more avail than an open statement to other. Berenice knew quite well in which
                        direction the tide was setting.
                    True, there were a numberthe ultrasmart of the smart worldwho protested. Mrs. Patrick
                        Gilhennin, for instance: "No! You don't tell me? What a shame! Well, I like
                        Bevy and shall always like her. She's clever, and she can come here just as long as she
                        chooses. It isn't her fault. She's a lady at heart and always will be. Life is
                        so cruel." Mrs. Augustus Tabreez: "Is that really true? I can't
                        belive it. Just the same, she's too charming to be dropped. I for one propose to ignore
                        these rumors just as long as I dare. She can come here if she can't go anywhere
                        else." Mrs. Pennington Drury: "That of Bevy Fleming! Who say so? I
                        don't believe it. I like her anyhow. The idea of the Haggertys cutting herdull fools!
                        Well, she can be my guest, the dear thing, as long as she pleases. As though her
                        mother's career really affected her!"
                    Nevertheless, in the world of the dull richthose who hold their own by might of
                        possession, conformity, owleyed sobriety, and ignoranceBevy Fleming had become persona non grata. How did she take all this? With that air of superior
                        consciousness which Knows that no shift of outer material illfortune can detract one jot from an
                        inward mental superiority. The truly individual know themselves from the beginning and rarely,
                        if ever, doubt. Life may play fast and loose about them, running like a racing, destructive tide
                        in and out, but they themselves are like a rock, still, serene, unmoved. Bevy Fleming felt
                        herself to be so immensely superior to anything of which she was a part that she could afford to
                        hold, her head high even now.
                    
                    Just the same, in order to remedy the situation she now looked about her with an eye
                        single to a possible satisfactory marriage. Braxmar had gone for good. He was somewhere in the
                        Eastin China, she heardhis infatuation for her apparently dead. Kilmer Duelma was gone
                        alsosnapped upan acquisition on the part of one of those families who did not now receive her.
                        However, in the drawing-rooms where she still appearedand what were they but marriage
                        markets?one or two affairs did spring uptentative approcachments on the part of scions of
                        wealth. They were destined to prove abortive. One of these youths, Pedro Ricer Marcado, a
                        Brazilian, educated at Oxford, promised much for sincerity and feeling until he learned that
                        Berenice was in her rightand what else? Some one had whispered something in his ear. Again there
                        was a certain William Drake Bowdoin the son of a famous old family, who lived on the north side
                        of Washington Square. After a ball, a morning musicale, and one other affair at which they met
                        Bowdoin took Berenice to see his mother and sister, who were charmed. "Oh, you serene
                        divinity!" he said to her, ecstatically, one day. "Won't you marry
                        me?" Bevy looked at him and wondered. "Let us wait just a little longer, my
                        dear," she counseled. "I want you to be sure that you really love
                        me." Shortly thereafter, meeting an old classmate at a club, Bowdoin was greeted as
                        follows.
                    "Look here, Bowdoin. You're friend of mine. I see you with that
                        Miss Fleming. Now, I don't know how far things have gone, and I don't to
                        intrude, but are you sure you are aware of al aspects of the case?"
                    "What do you mean?" demanded Bowdoin. "I want you to speak
                        out."
                    "Oh, pardon, old man. No offense, really. You know me. I couldn't.
                        Collegeand all that. Just this, though, before you go any further. Inquire about. You may hear
                        things. If they're true you ought to know. If not, the I hear talk, I tell you. Best
                        intentions in the world, old man. I do assure you."
                    More inquiries. The tongues of jealousy and envy. Mr. Bowdoin was sure to inherit
                        three million dollars. Then  a very necessary trip
                        to somewhere, and Berenice stared at herself in the glass. What was it? What were people saying,
                        if anything? This was strange. Well, she was young and beautiful. There were others. Still, she
                        might have come to love Bowdoin. He was so airy, artistic in an unconscious way. Really, she had
                        thought better of him.
                    The effect of all this was not wholly depressing. Enigmatic, disdainful, with a touch
                        of melancholy and a world of gaiety and courage, Berenice heard at times behind joy the hollow
                        echo of unreality. Here was a ticklish business, this living. For want of light and air the
                        finest flowers might die. Her mother's error was not so inexplicable now. By it had she
                        not, after all, preserved herself and her family to a certain phase of social superiority?
                        Beauty was of such substance as dreams are made of, and as fleeting. Not one's self
                        aloneone's inmost worth, the splendor of one s dreamsbut other thingsname, wealth, the
                        presence or absence of rumor, and of accidentwere important. Berenice's lip curled. But
                        life could be lived. One could lie to the world. Youth is optimistic, and Berenice, in spite of
                        her of her splendid mind, was so young. She saw life as a game, a good chance, that could be
                        played in many ways. Cowperwood's theory of things began to appeal to her. One must
                        create one's own career, carve it out, or remain horribly dull or bored, dragged along
                        at the chariot-wheels of others. If society was so finicky, if men were so dullwell, there was
                        one thing she could do. She must have life, lifeand money would help some to that end.
                    Besides, Cowperwood by degrees was becoming attractive to her; he really was. He was
                        so much better than most of the others, so very powerful. She was preternaturally gay, as one
                        who says, "Victory shall be mine anyhow."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LXI
                    THE CATACLYSM
                    AND now at last Chicago is really facing the thing which It has most feared. A giant
                        monopoly is really reaching out to enfold it with an octopus-like grip. And Cowperwood is its
                        eyes, its tentacles, its force! Embedded in the giant strength and good will of Haeckelheimer,
                        Gotloeb & Co., he is like a monument based on a rock of great strength. A fifty-year
                        franchise, to be delivered to him by a majority of forty-eight out of a total of sixty-eight
                        aldermen (in case the ordinance has to be passed over the mayor's veto), is all that
                        now stands between him and the realization of his dreams. What a triumph for his iron policy of
                        courage in the face of all obstacles! What a tribute to his ability not to flinch in the face of
                        storm and stress! Other men might have abandoned the game long before, but not he. What a
                        splendid windfall of chance that the money element should of its own accord take fright at the
                        Chicago idea of the municipalization of public privilege and should hand him this giant South
                        Side system as a reward for his stern opposition to fol-de-rol theories.
                    Through the influence of these powerful advocates he was invited to speak before
                        various local commercial bodiesthe Board of Real Estate Dealers, the Property Owners'
                        Association, the Merchants' League, the Bankers' Union, and so forth, where he
                        had an opportunity to present his case and justify his cause. But the effect of his suave
                        speechifyings in these quarters was largely neutralized by Nazareth?" was the regular
                        inquiry. That section of the press formerly beholden to Hand and Schryhart stood out as bitterly
                        as ever; and most of the other newspapers, being under no obligation to Eastern capital, felt it
                        the part of  wisdom to support the rank and file. The
                        most searching and eladorate mathematical examinations were conduced with a view to showing the
                        fabulous profits of the street-car trust in future years. The fine hand of Eastern banking-house
                        was detected and their sinister motives noised abroad "Millions for everybody in the
                        trust but not one cent for Chicago," was the Inquirer's way of putting it. Certain altruists of the community were by now
                        so aroused that in the destruction of Cowperwood they saw their duty to God, to humanity, and to
                        democracy straight and clear. The heavens had once more opened, and they saw a great light. On
                        the other hand the Politiciansthose in office outside the mayorconstituted a petty band of
                        guerrillas or free-booters who, like hungry swine shut in a pen, were ready to fall upon any and
                        all propositions brought to their attention with but one end in view: that they might eat, and
                        eat heartily. In times of great opportunity and contest for privilege life always sinks to its
                        lowest depths of materialism and rises at the same time to its highest reaches of the ideal.
                        When the Waves of the sea are most towering its hollows are most awesome.
                    Finally the summer passed, the council assembled, and with the first breath of autumn
                        chill the very air of the city was touched by a premonition of contest. Cowperwood, disappointed
                        by the outcome of his various ingratiatory efforts, decided to fall back on his old reliable
                        method of bribery. He fixed on his pricetwenty thousand dollars for each favorable vote, to
                        begin with. Later if necessary, he would raise it to twenty-five thousand, or even thirty
                        thousand, making the total cost in the neighborhood of a million and a half. Yet it was a small
                        price indeed when the ultimate return was considered. He planned to have his ordinance
                        introduced by an alderman named Ballenberg, a trusted lieutenant, and handed thereafter to the
                        clerk, who would read it, whereupon another henchman would streets and alleys, consisting of
                        thirty-four members drawn chamber, where public hearings would be held. By keeping  up a bold front Cowperwood thought the necessary
                        iron could be put into his followers to enable them to go through with the scorching ordeal
                        Which was sure to follow. Already aldermen were being besieged at their homes and in the
                        precincts of the ward clubs and meeting-places. Their mail was being packed with importuning or
                        threatening letters. Their very children were being derided, their neighbors urged to chastise
                        them. Ministers wrote them in appealing or denunciatory vein. They were spied upon and abused
                        daily in the public prints. The mayor, shrewd son of battle that he was, realizing that he had a
                        whip of terror in his hands, excited by the long contest waged, and by the smell of battle, was
                        not backward in urging the most drastic remedies.
                    "Wait till the thing comes up," he said to his friends, in a great
                        central music-hall conference in which thousands participated, and when the matter of ways and
                        means to defeat the venal aldermen was being discussed. "We have Mr. Cowperwood in a
                        corner, I think. He cannot do anything for two weeks, once his ordinance is in, and by that time
                        we shall be able to organize a vigilance committee, ward meetings, marching clubs, and the like.
                        We ought to Organize a great central mass-meeting for the Sunday night before the Monday when
                        the bill comes up for final hearing We want overflow meeting in every ward at the same time. I
                        tell you, gentlemen, that, while I believe there are enough honest voters in the city council to
                        prevent the Cowperwood crowd from passing this bill over my veto, yet I don't think the
                        matter ought to be allowed to go that far. You never can tell what these rascals will do once
                        they see an actual cash bid of twenty or thirty thousand dollars before them. Most of them, even
                        if they were lucky, would never make the half of that in a lifetime. They don't expect
                        to be returned to the Chicago City Council. Once is enough. There are too many others behind
                        them waiting to get their noses in the trough. Go into your respective wards and districts and
                        organize meetings. Call your particular alderman before you. Don't let him evade you or
                        quibble or stand on his rights as a private citizen or a public officer. Threatendon't
                        cajole. soft or kind words wont't go with that type of man. Threaten, and when you have
                        managed  to extract a promise be on hand with ropes
                        to see that he keeps his word. I don't like to advise arbitrary methods, but what else
                        is to be done? The enemy is armed and ready for action right now. They're just waiting
                        for a peaceful moment. Don't let them find it. Be ready. Fight. I'm your
                        mayor, and ready to do all I can, but I stand alone with a mere pitiful veto right. You help me
                        and I'll help you. You fight for me and I'll fight for you."
                    Witness hereafter the discomfiting situation of Mr. Simon Pinski at 9 P.M. on the
                        second evening following the introduction of the ordinance, in the ward house of the Fourteenth
                        Ward Democratic Club. Rotund, flaccid, red-faced, his costume a long black frock-coat and silk
                        hat, Mr. Pinski was being heckled by his neighbors and business associates. He had been called
                        here by threats to answer for his prospective high crimes and misdemeanors. By now it was pretty
                        well understood that nearly all the present alderman were criminal and venal, and in consequence
                        party enmities were practically wiped out. There were no longer for the time being Democrats and
                        Republicans, but only pro or anti Cowperwoodsprincipally anti. Mr. Pinski, unfortunately, had
                        been singled out by the Tran-script, the Inquirer, and the Chronicle as one of those
                        open to advance questioning by his constituents. Of mixed Jewish and American extraction, he had
                        been born and raised in the Fourteenth and spoke with a decidedly American He was neither small
                        nor largesandy-haired, shifty-eyed, cunning, and on most occasions amiable. just now he was
                        decidedly nervous, wrathy, and perplexed, for he had been brought here against his will. His
                        slightly oleaginous eyenot unlike that of a small pighad be fixed definitely and finally on the
                        munificent sum of thirty thousand dollars, no less, and this local agitation threatened to
                        deprive him of his almost untenable right to the same. His ordeal took place in a large,
                        low-ceiled room illuminated by five very plain, thin, two-armed gas-jets suspended from the
                        ceiling and adorned by posters of prizefights, raffles, games, and the "Simon Pinski
                        Pleasure Association" plastered here and there freely against dirty, iong-unwhitewashed
                        walls. He stood on the low raised platform at the back of the room, surrounded by a score or
                        more of  his ward henchmen, all more or less
                        reliable, all black-frocked, or at least in their Sunday clothes; all scowling, nervous,
                        defensive, red-faced, and fearing trouble. Mr. Pinski has come armed. This talk of the
                        mayor's concerning guns, ropes, drums, marching clubs, and the like has been given very
                        wide publicity, and the public seems rather eager for a Chicago holiday in which the slaughter
                        of an alderman or so might furnish the leading and most acceptable feature.
                    "Hey, Pinski!" yells some one out of a small sea of new and
                        decidedly unfriendly faces. (This is no meeting of Pinski followers, but a conglomerate
                        outpouring of all those elements of a distrait populace bent on enforcing for once the
                        principles of aldermanic decency. There are even women herelocal church-members, and one or two
                        advanced civic reformers and W. C. T. U. bar-room smashers. Mr. Pinski has been summoned to
                        their presence by the threat that if he didn't come the noble company would seek him
                        out later at his own house.)
                    "Hey, Pinski! You old boodler! How much do you expect to get out of this
                        traction business?" (This from a voice somewhere in the rear.)
                    
                        Mr. Pinski (turning to one side as if pinched in the neck).
                    "The man that says I am a boodler is a liar! I never took a dishonest dollar
                        in my life, and everybody in the Fourteenth Ward knows it."
                    
                        The Five Hundred People Assembled. "Ha! ha! ha! Pinski
                        never took a dollar! Ho! ho! ho! Whoop-ee!"
                    
                        Mr. Pinski (very red-faced, rising). "It is so. Why
                        should I talk to a lot of loafers that come here because the papers tell them to call me names?
                        I have been an alderman fosr six years now. Everybody knows me."
                    
                        A Voice. "You call us loafers. You crook!"
                    
                        Another Voice (referring to his statement of being known).
                        "You bet they do!"
                    
                        Another voice (this from a small, bony plumber in work-clothes).
                        "Hey, you old grafter! Which way do you expect to vote? For or against this franchise?
                        Which way?"
                    
                        Still Another Voice (an insurance clerk). "Yes, which
                        way?"
                    
                        Mr. Pinski (an insurance clerk). "Yes, which
                        way?"
                    
                        Mr. Pinski (rising once more, for in his nervousness he is
                        constantly rising or starting to rise, and then sitting down  again). "I have a right to my own mind, ain't I? I got a
                        right to think. What for am I an alderman, then? The constitution. ..."
                    
                        An Anti-Pinski Republican (a young law clerk). "To hell
                        with the constitution! No fine words now, Pinski. Which way do you expect to vote? For or
                        against? Yes or no?"
                    
                        A Voice (that of a bricklayer, anti-Pinski). "He
                        daresn't say. He's got some of that bastard's money in his jeans now,
                        I'll bet."
                    
                        A Voice from Behind (one of Pinski's henchmena heavy,
                        pugilistic Irishman). "Don't let them frighten you, Sim. Stand your ground.
                        They can't hurt you. We're here."
                    
                        Pinski (getting up once more). "This is an outrage, I
                        say. Ain't I gon' to be allowed to say what I think? There are two sides to
                        every question. Now, I think whatever the newspapers say that Cowperwood"
                    
                        A Journeyman Carpenter (a reader of the Inquirer). "You're bribed, you thief! You're beating about
                        the bush. You want to sell out."
                    
                        The Bony Plumber. "Yes, you crook! You want to get away
                        with thirty thousand dollars, that's what you want, you boodler!"
                    
                        Mr. Pinski (defiantly, egged on by voices from behind).
                        "I want to be fairthat's what. I want to keep my own mind. The constitution
                        gives everybody the right of free speecheven me. I insist that the street-car companies have
                        some rights; at the same time the people have rights too."
                    
                        A Voice. "What are those rights?"
                    
                        Another Voice. "He don't know. He
                        wouldn't know the people's rights from a sawmill."
                    
                        Another Voice. "Or a load of hay."
                    
                        Pinski (continuing very defiantly now, since he has not yet been
                        slain). "I say the people have their rights. The companies ought to be made to pay a
                        fair tax. But this twenty-year-franchise idea is too little, I think. The Mears bill now gives
                        them fifty years, and I think all told"
                    
                        The Five Hundred (in chorus). "Ho, you robber! You
                        thief! You boodler! Hang him! Ho! ho! ho! Get a rope!"
                    
                    
                        Pinski (retreating within a defensive circle as various citizens
                        approach him, their eyes blazing, their teeth showing, their fists clenched). "My
                        friends, wait! Ain't I goin' to be allowed to finish?"
                    
                        A Voice. "We'll finish you, you
                        stiff!"
                    
                        A Citizen (advancing; a bearded Pole). "How will you
                        vote, hey? Tell us that! How? Hey?"
                    
                        A Second Citizen (a Jew). "You're a no-good,
                        you robber. I know you for ten years now already. You cheated me when you were in the grocery
                        business."
                    
                        A Third Citizen (a Swede. In a sing-song voice). "Answer
                        me this, Mr. Pinski. If a majority of the citizens of the Fourteenth Ward don't want
                        you to vote for it, will you still voice for it?"
                    
                        Pinski (hesitating).
                    
                        The Five Hundred. "Ho! look at the scoundrel!
                        He's afraid to say. He don't know whether he'll do what the people of
                        this ward want him to do. Kill him! Brain him!"
                    
                        A Voice from Behind. "Aw, stand up, Pinski.
                        Don't be afraid."
                    
                        Pinski (terrorized as the five hundred make a rush for the
                        stage). "If the people don't want me to do it, of course I won't do
                        it. Why should I? Ain't I their representative?"
                    
                        A Voice. "Yes, when you think you're going to
                        get the wadding kicked out of you."
                    
                        Another Voice. "You wouldn't be honest with
                        your mother, you bastard. Yo couldn't be!"
                    
                        Pinski. "If one-half the voters should ask me not to do
                        it I wouldn't do it."
                    
                        A Voice. "Well, we'll get the voters to ask
                        you, all right. We'll get nine-tenths of them to sign before to-morrow night."
                    
                        An Irish-American (aged twenty-six; a gas collector; coming close
                        to Pinski)."If you don't vote right we'll hang you, and I'll
                        be there to help pull the rope myself."
                    
                        One of Pinski's Lieutenants. "Say, who is that
                        freshie? We want to lay for him. One good kick in the right place will just about finish
                        him."
                    
                        The Gas Collector. "Not from you, you carrot-faced  terrier. Come outside and see." (Business
                        of friends interfering).
                    The meeting becomes disorderly. Pinski is escorted out by friendscompletely
                        surroundedamid shrieks and hisses, cat-calls, cries of "Boodler!"
                        "Thief!" "Robber!"
                    There were many such little dramatic incidents after the ordinance had been
                        introduced.
                    Henceforth on the streets, in the wards and outlying sections, and even, on occasion,
                        in the business heart, be-hold the marching clubsthose sinister, ephemeral organizations which
                        on demand of the mayor had cropped out into existencegreat companies of the unheralded, the
                        dull, the undistinguishedclerks, working-men, small business men, and minor scions of religion
                        or morality; all tramping to and fro of an evening, after working-hours, assembling in cheap
                        halls and party club-houses, and drilling themselves to what end? That they might march to the
                        city hall on the fateful Monday night when the street-railway ordinances should be up for
                        passage and demand of unregenerate lawmakers that they do their duty. Cowperwood, coming down to
                        his office one morning on his own elevated lines, was the observer of a button or badge worn
                        upon the coat lapel of stolid, inconsequential citizens who sat reading their papers,
                        unconscious of that presence which epitomized the terror and the power they all feared. One of
                        these badges had for its device a gallows with a free noose suspended; another was blazoned with
                        the query: "Are we going to be robbed?" On sign-boards, fences, and dead walls
                        huge posters, four by six feet in dimension, were displayed.
                    
                    THE TITAN
                        WALDEN H. LUCAS
                         against the
                        BOODLERS
                    
                    Every citizen of Chicago should come down to the City Hall
                    
                        TO-NIGHT MONDAY, DEC. 12
                    
                    and every Monday night thereafter while the Street-car Franchises are
                        under consideration, and see that the interests of the city are protected against
                    
                        BOODLEISM
                    
                    
                        Citizens, Arouse and Defeat the Boodlers!
                    
                    
                    In the papers were flaring head-lines; in the clubs, halls, and churches fiery
                        speeches could nightly be heard. Men were drunk now with a kind of fury of contest. They would
                        not succumb to this Titan who was bent on undoing them. They would not be devoured by this
                        gorgon of the East. He should be made to pay an honest return to the city or get out. No
                        fifty-year franchise should be granted him. The Mears law must be repealed, and he must come
                        into the city council humble and with clean hands. No alderman who received as much as a dollar
                        for his vote should in this instance be safe with his life.
                    Needless to say that in the face of such a campaign of intimidation only great
                        courage could win. The aldermen were only human. In the council committee-chamber Cowperwood
                        went freely among them, explaining as he best could the justice of his course and making it
                        plain that, although willing to buy his rights, he looked on them as no more than his due. The
                        rule of the council was barter, and he accepted it. His unshaken and unconquerable defiance
                        heartened his followers greatly, and the thought of thirty thousand dollars was as a buttress
                        against many terrors. At the same time many an alderman speculated solemnly as to what he would
                        do afterward and where he would go once he had sold out.
                    At last the Monday night arrived which was to bring the final test of strength.
                        Picture the large, ponderous structure of black graniteerected at the expense of millions and
                        suggesting somewhat the somnolent architecture or ancient Egyptwhich served as the city hall and
                        county court-house combined. On this evening the four streets surrounding it were packed with
                        thousands of people. To this throng Cowperwood has become an astounding figure: his wealth
                        fabulous, his heart iron, his intentions sinisterthe acme of cruel, plotting deviltry. Only this
                        day, the Chronicle, calculating well the hour and the occasion,
                        has completely covered one of its pages with an intimate, though exaggerated, description of
                        Cowperwood's house in York: his court of orchids, his sunrise room, the baths of pink
                        and blue alabaster, the finishings of-marble and intaglio. Here Cowperwood was represented as
                        seated in a swinging divan, his various books, art treasures, and  comforts piled about him. The idea was vaguely suggested that in his
                        sybaritic hours odalesques danced before him and unnamable indulgences and excesses were
                        perpetrated.
                    At this same hour in the council-chamber itself were assembling as hungry and bold a
                        company of gray wolves as was ever gathered under one roof. The room was large, ornamented to
                        the south by tall windows, its ceiling supporting a heavy, intricate chandelier, its sixty-six
                        aldermanic desks arranged in half-circles, one behind the other; its woodwork of black oak
                        carved and highly polished; its walls a dark blue-gray decorated with arabesques in gold;thus
                        giving to all proceedings an air of dignity and stateliness. Above the speaker's head
                        was an immense portrait in oil of a former mayorpoorly done, dusty, and yet impressive. The size
                        and character of the place gave on ordinary occasions a sort of resonance to the voices of the
                        speakers. To-night through the closed windows could be heard the sound of distant drums and
                        marching feet. In the hall outside the council door were packed at least a thousand men with
                        ropes, sticks, a fife-and-drum corps which occasionally struck up "Hail! Columbia,
                        Happy Land," "My Country, 'Tis of Thee," and
                        "Dixie." Alder-man Schlumbohm, heckled to within an inch of his life, followed
                        to the council door by three hundred of his fellow-citizens, was there left with the admonition
                        that they would be waiting for him when he should make his exit. He was at last seriously
                        impressed.
                    "What is this?" he asked of his neighbor and nearest associate,
                        Alderman Gavegan, when he gained the safety of his seat. "A free country?"
                    "Search me!" replied his compatriot, wearily. "I never
                        seen such a band as I have to deal with out in the Twentieth. Why, my God! a man can't
                        call his name his own any more out here. It's got so now the newspapers tell everybody
                        what to do."
                    Alderman Pinski and Alderman Hoberkorn, conferring together in one corner, were both
                        very dour. "I'll tell you what, Joe," said Pinski to his confrere;
                        "it's this fellow Lucas that has got the people so stirred up. I
                        didn't go home last night because I didn't want those fellows to follow me
                        down there. Me and my wife stayed down-town.  But one
                        of the boys was over here at Jake's a little while ago, and he says there must V been
                        five hundred people around my house at six o'clock, already. Whad ye think o'
                        that?"
                    "Same here. I don't take much stock in this lynching idea. Still,
                        you can't tell. I don't know whether the police could help us much or not.
                        It's a damned outrage. Cowperwood has a fair proposition. What's the matter
                        with them, anyhow?"
                    Renewed sounds of "Marching Through Georgia" from without.
                    Enter at this time Aldermen Ziner, Knudson, Revere, Rogers, Tiernan, and Kerrigan. Of
                        all the aldermen perhaps Messrs. Tiernan and Kerrigan were as cool as any. Still the spectacle
                        of streets blocked with people who carried torches and wore badges showing slip-nooses attached
                        to a gallows was rather serious.
                    "I'll tell you, Pat," said "Smiling
                        Mike," as they eventually made the door through throngs of jeering citizens;
                        "it does look a little rough. Whad ye think?"
                    "To hell with them!" replied Kerrigan, angry, waspish, determined.
                        "They don't run me or my ward. I'll vote as I damn please."
                    "Same here, replied Tiernan, with a great show of courage. "That
                        goes for me. But it's purty warm, anyhow, eh?"
                    "Yes, it's warm, all right," replied Kerrigan, suspicious
                        lest his companion in arms might be weakening, "but that'll never make a
                        quitter out of me."
                    "Nor me, either," replied the Smiling One.
                    Enter now the mayor, accompanied by a fife-and-drum corps rendering "Hail to
                        the Chief." He ascends the rostrum. Outside in the halls the huzzas of the populace. In
                        the gallery overhead a picked audience. As the various aldermen look up they contemplate a sea
                        of unfriendly faces. "Get on to the mayor s guests," commented one alderman to
                        another, cynically.
                    A little sparring for time while minor matters are considered, and the gallery is
                        given opportunity for comment on the various communal lights, identifying for itself first one
                        local celebrity and then another. "There's Johnnie Dowling, that big blond
                        fellow with the round  head; there's
                        Pinskilook at the little rat; there's Kerrigan. Get on to the emerald. Eh, Pat, how s
                        the jewelry? You won't get any chance to do any grafting to-night, Pat. You
                        won't pass no ordinance to-night."
                    
                        Alderman Winkler (pro-Cowperwood). "If the chair
                        pleases, I think something ought to be done to restore order in the gallery and keep these
                        proceedings from being disturbed. It seems to me an outrage, that, on an occasion of this kind,
                        when the interests of the people require the most careful attention"
                    
                        A Voice. "The interests of the people!"
                    
                        Another Voice. "Sit down. You're
                        bought!"
                    
                        Alderman Winkler. "If the chair pleases"
                    
                        The Mayor. "I shall have to ask the audience in the
                        gallery to keep quiet in order that the business in hand may be considered." (Applause,
                        and the gallery lapses into silence.)
                    
                        Alderman Guigler (to Alderman Sumulsky). "Well trained,
                        eh?"
                    
                        Alderman Ballenberg (pro-Cowperwood, getting up large, brown,
                        florid, smooth-faced). "Before calling up an ordinance which bears my name I should
                        like to ask permission of the council to make a statement. When I introduced this ordinance last
                        week I said"
                    
                        A Voice. "We know what you said."
                    
                        Alderman Ballenberg. "I said that I did so by request. I
                        want to explain that it was at the request of a number of gentlemen who have since appeared
                        before the committee of this council that now has this ordinance"
                    
                        A Voice. "That's all right, Ballenberg. We know
                        by whose request you introduced it. You've said your little say."
                    
                        Alderman Ballenberg. "If the chair pleases"
                    
                        A Voice. "Sit down, Ballenberg. Give some other boodler
                        a chance."
                    
                        The Mayor. "Will the gallery please stop
                        interrupting."
                    
                        Alderman Hvranek (jumping to his feet). "This is an
                        outrage. The gallery is packed with people come here to intimidate us. Here is a great public
                        corporation that has served this city for years, and served it well, and when it comes to this
                        body with a sensible proposition we ain't 
                        even allowed to consider it. The mayor packs the gallery with his friends, and the papers stir
                        up people to come down here by thousands and try to frighten us. I for one"
                    
                        A Voice. "What's the matter, Billy?
                        Haven't you got your money yet?"
                    
                        Alderman Hvranek (Polish-American, intelligent, even artistic
                        looking, shaking his fist at the gallery). "You dare not come down here and say that,
                        you coward!"
                    
                        A Chorus of Fifty Voices. "Rats!"(also)
                        "Billy, you ought to have wings."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (rising). "I say now, Mr. Mayor
                        don't you think we've had enough of this?"
                    
                        A Voice. "Well, look who's here. If it
                        ain't Smiling Mike."
                    
                        Another Voice. "How much do you expect to get,
                        Mike?"
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (turning to gallery). "I want to say I
                        can lick any man that wants to come down here and talk to me to my face. I'm not afraid
                        of no ropes and no guns. These corporations have done everything for the city"
                    
                        A Voice. "Aw!"
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan. "If it wasn't for the
                        street-car companies we wouldn't have any city."
                    
                        Ten Voices. "Aw!"
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (bravely). "My mind ain't the
                        mind of some people."
                    
                        A Voice. I should say not."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan. "I'm talking for compensation
                        for the privileges we expect to give."
                    
                        A Voice. "You're talking for your
                        pocket-book."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan. "I don't give a damn for
                        these cheap skates and cowards in the gallery. I say treat these corporations right. They have
                        helped make the city."
                    
                        A Chorus of Fifty Voices. "Aw! You want to treat
                        yourself right, that's what you want. You vote right to-night or you'll be
                        sorry."
                    By now the various aldermen outside of the most hardened characters were more or less
                        terrified by the grilling contest. It could do no good to battle with this gallery or the crowd
                        outside. Above them sat the mayor, before them reporters, ticking in shorthand every phrase and
                             word. "I don't see what we can
                        do," said Alderman Pinski to Alderman Hvranek, his neighbor. "It looks to me
                        as if we might just as well not try."
                    At this point arose Alderman Gilleran, small, pale, intelligent, anti-Cowperwood. By
                        prearrangement he had been scheduled to bring the second, and as it proved, the final test of
                        strength to the issue. "If the chair pleases," he said, "I move that
                        the vote by which the Ballenberg fifty-year ordinance was referred to the joint committee of
                        streets and alleys be reconsidered, and that instead it be referred to the committee on city
                        hall."
                    This was a committee that hitherto had always been considered by members of council
                        as of the least importance. Its principal duties consisted in devising new names for streets and
                        regulating the hours of city-hall servants. There were no perquisites, no graft. In a spirit of
                        ribald defiance at the organization of the present session all the mayor's friendsthe
                        reformersthose who could not be trustedhad been relegated to this committee. Now it was proposed
                        to take this ordinance out of the hands of friends and send it here, from whence unquestionably
                        it would never reappear. The great test had come.
                    
                        Alderman Hoberkorn (mouthpiece for his gang because the most
                        skilful in a parliamentary sense). "The vote cannot be reconsidered." He
                        begins a long explanation amid hisses.
                    
                        A Voice. "How much have you got?"
                    
                        A Second Voice. "You've been a boodler all your
                        life."
                    
                        Alderman Hoberkorn (turning to the gallery, a light of defiance
                        in his eye). "You come here to intimidate us, but you can't do it. You re too
                        contemptible to notice.
                    
                        A Voice. "You hear the drums, don't
                        you?"
                    
                        A Second Voice. "Vote wrong, Hoberkorn, and see. We know
                        you."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (to himself). "Say, that's
                        pretty rough, ain't it?"
                    
                        The Mayor. "Motion overruled. The point is not well
                        taken."
                    
                        Alderman Guigler (rising a little puzzled). "Do we vote
                        now on the Gilleran resolution?"
                    
                        A Voice. "You bet you do, and you vote right."
                            
                        The Mayor. "Yes. The clerk will call the roll."
                    
                        The Clerk (reading the names, beginning with the A's).
                        "Altvast?" (pro-Cowperwood).
                    
                        Alderman Altvast. "Yea." Fear had conquered
                        him.
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (to Alderman Kerrigan). "Well,
                        there's one baby down."
                    
                        Alderman Kerrigan. "Yep."
                    "Ballenberg?" (Pro-Cowperwood; the man who had introduced the
                        ordinance.)
                    "Yea."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan. "Say, has Ballenberg
                        weakened?"
                    
                        Alderman Kerrigan. "It looks that way."
                    "Canna?"
                    "Yea."
                    "Fogarty?"
                    "Yea."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan (nervously). "There goes
                        Fogarty."
                    "Hvranek?"
                    "Yea."
                    
                        Alderman Tiernan. "And Hvranek!"
                    
                        Alderman Kerrigan (referring to the courage of his colleagues.
                        "It's coming out of their hair."
                    In exactly eighty seconds the roll-call was in and Cowperwood had lost41 to 25. It
                        was plain that the ordinance could never be revived.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LXII
                    THE RECOMPENSE
                    YOU have seen, perhaps, a man whose heart was weighted by a great woe. You have seen
                        the eye darken, the soul fag, and the spirit congeal under the breath of an icy disaster. At
                        ten-thirty of this particular evening Cowperwood, sitting alone in the library of his Michigan
                        Avenue house, was brought face to face with the fact that he had lost. He had built so much on
                        the cast of this single die. It was useless to say to himself that he could go into the council
                        a week later with a modified ordinance or could wait until the storm had died out. He refused
                        himself these consolations. Already he had battled so long and so vigorously, by every resource
                        and subtlety which his mind had been able to devise. All week long on divers occasions he had
                        stood in the council-chamber where the committee had been conducting its hearings. Small comfort
                        to know that by suits, injunctions, appeals, and writs to intervene he could tie up this transit
                        situation and leave it for years and years the prey of lawyers, the despair of the city, a
                        hopeless muddle which would not be unraveled until he and his enemies should long be dead. This
                        contest had been so long in the brewing, he had gone about it with such care years before. And
                        now the enemy had been heartened by a great victory. His aldermen, powerful, hungry, righting
                        men alllike those picked soldiers of the ancient Roman emperors ruthless, conscienceless, as
                        desperate as himself, had in their last redoubt of personal privilege fallen, weakened, yielded.
                        How could he hearten them to another strugglehow face the blazing wrath of a mighty populace
                        that had once learned how to win? Others might enter hereHaeckelheimer, Fishel, any one of a
                        half-dozen Eastern giantsand smooth out the ruffled surface of the angry sea that he had blown
                        to  fury. But as for him, he was tired, sick of
                        Chicago, sick of this interminable contest. Only recently he had promised himself that if he
                        were to turn this great trick he would never again attempt anything so desperate or requiring so
                        much effort. He would not need to. The size of his fortune made it of little worth. Besides, in
                        spite of his tremendous vigor, he was getting on.
                    Since he had alienated Aileen he was quite alone, out of touch with any one
                        identified with the earlier years of his life. His all-desired Berenice still evaded him. True,
                        she had shown lately a kind of warming sympathy; but what was it? Gracious tolerance, perhapsa
                        sense of obligation? Certainly little more, he felt. He looked into the future, deciding heavily
                        that he must fight on, whatever happened, and then
                    While he sat thus drearily pondering, answering a telephone call now and then, the
                        door-bell rang and the servant brought a card which he said had been presented by a young woman
                        who declared that it would bring immediate recognition. Glancing at it, Cowperwood jumped to his
                        feet and hurried down-stairs into the one presence he most craved.
                    There are compromises of the spirit too elusive and subtle to be traced in all their
                        involute windings. From that earliest day when Berenice Fleming had first set eyes on Cowperwood
                        she had been moved by a sense of power, an amazing and fascinating individuality. Since then by
                        degrees he had familiarized her with a thought of individual freedom of action and a disregard
                        of current social standards which were destructive to an earlier conventional view of things.
                        Following him through this Chicago fight, she had been caught by the wonder of his dreams; he
                        was on the way toward being one of the world's greatest money giants. During his recent
                        trips East she had sometimes felt that she was able to read in the cast of his face the
                        intensity of this great ambition, which had for its ultimate aimherself. So he had once assured
                        her. Always with her he had been so handsome, so pleading, so patient.
                    So here she was in Chicago to-night, the guest of friends at the Richelieu, and
                        standing in Cowperwood's presence.
                    "Why, Berenice!" he said, extending a cordial hand.
                    
                    "When did you arrive in town? Whatever brings you here?" He had
                        once tried to make her promise that if ever her feeling toward him changed she would let him
                        know of it in some way. And here she was to-nighton what errand? He noted her costume of brown
                        silk and velvethow well it seemed to suggest her cat-like grace!
                    
                        "You bring me here," she replied, with an
                        indefinable something in her voice which was at once a challenge and a confession. "I
                        thought from what I had just been reading that you might really need me now."
                    "You mean?" he inquired, looking at her with vivid eyes. There he
                        paused.
                    "That I have made up my mind. Besides, I ought to pay some time."
                    "Berenice!" he exclaimed, reproachfully.
                    "No, I don't mean that, either," she replied. "I
                        am sorry now. I think I understand you better. Besides," she added, with a sudden
                        gaiety that had a touch of self-consolation in it, "I want to."
                    "Berenice! Truly?"
                    "Can't you tell?" she queried.
                    "Well, then," he smiled, holding out his hands; and, to his
                        amazement, she came forward.
                    "I can't explain myself to myself quite," she added, in a
                        hurried low, eager tone, "but I couldn't stay away any longer. I had the
                        feeling that you might be going to lose here for the present. But I want you to go somewhere
                        else if you have toLondon or Paris. The world won't understand us quitebut I
                        do."
                    "Berenice!" He smothered her cheek and hair.
                    "Not so close, please. And there aren't to be any other ladies,
                        unless you want me to change my mind."
                    "Not another one, as I hope to keep you. You will share everything I have. .
                        . ."
                    For answer
                    How strange are realities as opposed to illusion!
                    The world is dosed with too much religion. Life is to be learned from life, and the
                        professional moralist is at best but a manufacturer of shoddy wares. At the ultimate  remove, God or the life force, if anything, is an
                        equation, and at its nearest expression for manthe contract socialit is that also. Its method of
                        expression appears to be that of generating the individual, in all his glittering variety and
                        scope, and through him progressing to the mass with its problems. In the end a balance is
                        invariably struck wherein the mass subdues the individual or the individual the massfor the time
                        being. For, behold, the sea is over dancing or raging.
                    In the mean time there have sprung up social words and phrases expressing a need of
                        balanceof equation. These are right, justice, truth, morality, an honest mind, a pure heartall
                        words meaning: a balance must be struck. The strong must not be too strong; the weak not too
                        weak. But without variation how could the balance be maintained? Nirvana! Nirvana! The ultimate,
                        still, equation.
                    Rushing like a great comet to the zenith, his path a blazing trail, Cowperwood did
                        for the hour illuminate the terrors and wonders of individuality. But for him also the eternal
                        equationthe pathos of the discovery that even giants are but pygmies, and that an ultimate
                        balance must be struck. Of the strange, tortured, terrified reflection of those who, caught in
                        his wake, were swept from the normal and the commonplace, what shall we say? Legislators by the
                        hundred, who were hounded from politics into their graves; a half-hundred aldermen of various
                        councils who were driven grumbling or whining into the limbo of the dull, the useless, the
                        commonplace. A splendid governor dreaming of an ideal on the one hand, succumbing to material
                        necessity on the other, traducing the spirit that aided him the while he tortured himself with
                        his own doubts. A second governor? more amenable, was to be greeted by the hisses of the
                        populace, to retire brooding and discomfited, and finally to take his own life. Schryhart and
                        Hand, venomous men both, unable to discover whether they had really triumphed, were to die
                        eventually, puzzled. A mayor whose greatest hour was in thwarting one who contemned him, lived
                        to say: "It is a great mystery. He was a strange man." A great city struggled
                        for a score of years to untangle that which was all but beyond the power of solutiona true
                        Gordian knot.
                    
                    And this giant himself, rushing on to new struggles and new difficulties in an older
                        land, forever suffering the goad of a restless heart[for him was no ultimate peace, no real
                        understanding, but only hunger and thirst and wonder.] Wealth, wealth, wealth! A new grasp of a
                        new great problem and its eventual solution. Anew the old urgent thirst for life, and only its
                        partial quenchment. In Dresden a palace for one woman, in Rome a second for another. In London a
                        third for his beloved Berenice, the lure of beauty ever in his eye. The lives of two women
                        wrecked, a score of victims despoiled; Berenice herself weary, yet brilliant, turning to others
                        for recompense for her lost youth. And he resigned, and yet notloving, understanding, doubting,
                        caught at last by the drug of a personality which he could not gainsay.
                    What shall we say of life in the last analysis"Peace, be still"? Or
                        shall we battle sternly for that equation which we know will be maintained whether, we battle or
                        no, in order that the strong become not too strong or the weak not too weak? Or perchance shall
                        we say (sick of dullness): "Enough of this. I will have strong meat or die!"
                        And die? Or live?
                    Each according to his temperamentthat something which he has not made and cannot
                        always subdue, and which may not always be subdued by others for him. Who plans the steps that
                        lead lives on to splendid glories, or twist them into gnarled sacrifices, or make of them dark,
                        disdainful, contentious tragedies? The soul within? And whence comes it? Of God?
                    What thought engendered the spirit of Circe, or gave to a Helen the lust of tragedy?
                        What lit the walls of Troy? Or prepared the woes of an Andromache? By what demon counsel was the
                        fate of Hamlet prepared? And why did the weird sisters plan ruin to the murderous Scot?
                    
                        Double, double toil and trouble,
                        Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
                    
                    In a mulch of darkness is bedded the roots of endless sorrowsand of endless joys.
                        Canst thou fix thine eye on the morning? Be glad. And if in the ultimate it blind thee, be glad
                        also! Thou hast lived.
                
                THE END
            
        
    
