
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. Forty Modern Fables: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2412
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
        	
                
                    Forty Modern Fables
                
            
            
            
            
                
                    Forty Modern Fables
                
                By George Ade
                
                    New York
                	R. H. Russell
                    1901
                
            
            
            
            	
                
                    Copyrighted, 1900-1901, by Robert Howard Russell
                
                
                    Typography by The Merrymount Press, Boston, U.S. Presswork by The
                        University Press, Cambridge, U.S
                
            
            
            
                A Table of Contents
                
                    1. The Fable of the Undecided Brunette and the Two Candidates
                                1
                        
                    
                    2. The Fable of the Boston Biologist and the Native with the
                            Blue Hardware 11
                        
                    
                    3. The Fable of the Knowing Friend Who Tipped off Her Star
                            Recipe 17
                        
                    
                    4. The Fable of the Peopl's Choice Who Answered the Call of
                            Duty and Took Seltzer 22
                        
                    
                    5. The Fable of the Girl with a Handicap Who Had to Lock Up
                            Her Parents 31
                        
                    
                    6. The Fable of the Good Fellow Who Got the Short End of It
                                35
                        
                    
                    7. The Fable of the Husband Who Showed Up and Did the Best He
                            Knew How 43
                        
                    
                    8. The Fable of the Bureau of Public Comfort and the Man in
                            Charge 52
                        
                    
                    9. The Fable of Uncle Silas and the Matrimonial Game 55
                        
                    
                    
                    10. The Fable of the Old Merchant, the Sleuth and the Tapioca
                                63
                        
                    
                    11. The Fable of Springfield's Fairest Flower and Lonesome
                            Agnes Who Was Crafty 69
                        
                    
                    12. The Fable of the Wise Piker Who Had the Kind of Talk That
                            Went 80
                        
                    
                    13. The Fable of the Two Wives Who Talked about Their
                            Husbands 89
                        
                    
                    14. The Fable of the Open Champion, the Veranda Fixture and
                            the Once-a-Weeker from Town 94
                        
                    
                    15. The Fable of the Cousin from Down East Who Had His Pick
                            of the Village Lilacs 104
                        
                    
                    16. The Fable of the Horse Maniac and What Caused the Filing
                            of the Suit 114
                        
                    
                    17. The Fable of the Household Comedian and the Lady
                            Shopper's Unexpected Come Back 119
                        
                    
                    18. The Fable of the Hungry Man from Bird Center and the
                            Trans-Atlantic Touch 124
                        
                    
                    19. The Fable of the Brotherhood of States and the Wife Who
                            Was Responsible for the Jubilee 134
                        
                    
                    
                    20. The Fable of the Good Fairy of the Eighth Ward and the
                            Dollar Excursion of the Steam-Fitters 139
                        
                    
                    21. The Fable of the All-Night Seance and the Limit That
                            Ceased to Be 150
                        
                    
                    22. The Fable of the Good People Who Rallied to the Support
                            of the Church 162
                        
                    
                    23. The Fable of How Grandma Shattered an Idol and Made It
                            Easy for the Children 165
                        
                    
                    24. The Fable of the Last Day at School and the Tough
                            Trustee's Farewell to the Young Voyagers 174
                        
                    
                    25. The Fable of Woman's True Friend and the Hopeful Antique
                                186
                        
                    
                    26. The Fable of This Year's St. George and the 800
                            Microscopic Dragons 190
                        
                    
                    27. The Fable of Alexander from up the Road Whose Wife Took
                            Him over the Jumps 199
                        
                    
                    28. The Fable of the General Manager of the Love Affair Who
                            Demanded a Furlough 209
                        
                    
                    29. The Fable of the Day's Work and the Morning After 219
                        
                    
                    
                    30. The Fable of the Sure-Thing Crook and the Town of
                            Nubbinville 224
                        
                    
                    31. The Fable of the Foozle and the Successful Approach 234
                        
                    
                    32. The Fable of the Old-Time Pedagogue Who Came Down from
                            the Shelf and Was Sufficiently Bumped 237
                        
                    
                    33. The Fable of the Man Who Was Going to Retire 248
                        
                    
                    34. The Fable of the Bookworm and the Butterfly Who Went into
                            the Law 253
                        
                    
                    35. The Fable of the Third and Last Call 263
                        
                    
                    36. The Fable of the Crustacean Who Tried to Find Out by
                            Reading a Book 266
                        
                    
                    37. The Fable of the Low-Down Expert on the Subject of Babies
                                276
                        
                    
                    38. The Fable of the Girl Who Could Compromise in a Pinch 281
                        
                    
                    39. The Fable of the Satiated Globe-Trotter Who Found a New
                            Kind of Nerve Twister Waiting for Him at Home 283
                        
                    
                    40. The Fable of the Skittish Widower Who Tried to Set
                            Himself Back Some Thirty Years 293
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	Forty Modern Fables
                
                    The Fable of The Undecided Brunette & The Two Candidates
                    ADARK-EYED Maiden was being Rushed by a Cheap' Man and a Provider. They took
                        Turn About in coming up to the House. She was a Child Wonder when it came to
                        spreading her Dates so that one Gentleman would not cross another's Beat.
                        Each of the Applicants was led to believe that he was the Only One for whom
                        all the Lights were turned on. He thought that when he failed to Show Up,
                        she was in her own Room, looking at his Picture and Feeling Blue.
                    The girl did what she could to foster these 
                        Delusions. She wanted to hold as many Options as possible, so as to have her
                        Pick.
                    The Cheap Man had his Good Points. He was House Broke and could play Chords
                        on the Piano. But from eight to five every day he was a Shylock. When he was
                        in a Crowd he never did anything Rash that involved the use of Money. He
                        saved a little more than his Salary every Week, and was pointed out as a
                        Comer in the Business World. It hurt him to Let Go.
                    When he wanted to give the Brunette a Frolic, he would get a Book out of the
                        Public Library and take it up to the House and read it to her. Once he put
                        her on the Car and gave her a jolly Ride down to the Second Baptist Church
                        to hear a Free Lecture on the Holy Land. At Christmas Time he sent the Dark
                        Girl a Square Card with a Snow Scene, a Clump of Fir Trees and a  Frozen Water-Wheel. When they went out to a
                        Party, he always remarked that it seemed to be a Pleasant Evening and they
                        might as well Hoof it.
                    The Provider was just the other Way. He was for Buying. The Queen received
                        her Violets every Day or two, even though he had to Catch Even by lunching
                        on Buttermilk and Sinkers. She got what she wanted and he took his Chances
                        on standing off the Wolf at the Door.
                    He took her to a Theater and they had Parquette Seats on the Aisle. After the
                        Performance the Colored Man would call out their Carriage Number and there
                        would dash up a Team of Prancing Bays. The Provider would hand her into the
                        glittering Vehicle with the graceful Flourish of a Sir Roger de Coverley.
                        The Door would slam and away they would Clatter, with all the Awed
                        Spectators  wondering which one of the
                        Vanderbilt Boys that was.
                    After he got back to his $2.75 Room and put the Dress Clothes where the Moths
                        could not get at them, he would do some calculating on the back of an
                        Envelope, and discover that he had Burned Up just One Week's Salary between
                        7.45 and 11.15.
                    Then he would wish that a white-haired Old Lady with a Safety Deposit Vault
                        full of Securities might come along and Adopt him and put him in a white and
                        gold Suite with a Pianola and a Man-Servant.
                    The Provider was a Financial Feather-Weight, but he was Game as a Pebble. He
                        worked on the Principle that a Man can Afford anything he can Get. He
                        allowed himself nearly everything that the Rich Folks have, except Money.
                    He would invite the Brunette to Luncheon  with
                        him. When he was by himself he called it Lunch. That "eon" on the end
                        usually makes a difference of about $4.85 in the Check.
                    They would repair to a Caf with a Fountain playing in the center of the Room.
                        Every time she pointed her Finger at another Item on the Carte du Jour, it
                        put a Sickening Crimp in his Visible Assets and moved him about three
                        Notches nearer to Hard Pan, but he never twitched a Muscle. He would push a
                        Half over toward the Waiter as if it annoyed him to see Money lying around.
                    He would walk out as light as a Toy Balloon and put her in a Cab and send her
                        Home, and then he would be down to his Gloves and a Bunch of Keys.
                    The Brunette was Up a Stump when it came to making a Choice. It seemed to be
                             another instance of Horse and Horse. She
                        knew that the Cheap Man would own Bank Stock and Corner Lots when the
                        Provider would be living on Snow Balls, and yet she could not bring herself
                        to lean up against a Stingy Old Thing who never Unbuckled. As for the
                        Provider, he was the Kindest Friend she knew and a Good Thing while he
                        lasted, but she knew that he could not Last farther than from here to the
                        Corner. She guessed that if she went ahead and married the Provider, he
                        would give her everything he Owned, but he never would Own more than you
                        could put in a Steamer Trunk.
                    The Cheap Man, on the other hand, would have a Neat Balance and a Strong
                        Rating, but it would require the use of an Anaesthetic to get a Tailor-Made
                        Suit out of him.
                    While in this Quandary, she consulted her Aunt Em, who was two kinds of a
                        Widow,  Grass and Sod. She had buried one
                        Husband and come out in Black. She had tied a Can to No. 2 and come out in
                        Bright Colors.
                    Aunt Em asked a number of Leading Questions in regard to the Qualifications
                        of the two Suitors, and then she said: "My Dear Niece, this is a Tall
                        Problem for a 20-year-old Girl to close in on, but you are entitled to a lot
                        of Credit for holding back and studying your Cards. A Lass who was short on
                        Foresight would have chosen the Provider, in the foolish Belief that she
                        would continue to get the Violets and Broiled Birds all the rest of her
                        Life. A Mercenary Maiden might have grabbed at the chance to be Mrs. Cheap
                        Man, but you are Dead Wise in your Theory that one who is a Parsimonious
                        Papa during Courtship will prove to be a Close Proposition as a Husband. The
                        Man who will not Loosen Up under the Melting Influence  of True Love is a born Gaspard. Truly it is not what Hubby has
                        but what he Hands Out, that helps one to Endure him as a Necessary Evil. If
                        you marry the Cheap Man, it is true that you stand a Show of getting the
                        whole Estate sooner or later, but this is an Outside Chance, because the
                        Cheap Man usually adopts a Diet of Prunes, Graham Bread, Vegetable Soup and
                        plain Spuds, and he will be here a long time. The World is full of women
                        whose Husbands are so far ahead of the Game that they can make fat Loans on
                        Improved Real Estate, and yet each of these Wives is wearing Last Year's
                        Hat, with the Wing moved over on the Other Side. If she whispered Automobile
                        to old Ready Money, he would throw a Double Arab. If you are going to start
                        in to do a 40-year Stunt as Housekeeper to some Human Savings Bank, you had
                        better put the Bargain on a Business Basis to start  with. Go before a Lawyer and have him frame up an Iron-Clad
                        Contract. Then you will get your little old Six every Saturday Night.
                        Otherwise you will have to Coax it out of him and get about 75 Cents per
                        Throw. As between the Generous Young Fellow who is Flat and the Moneyed Man
                        who never Comes Up, it is about Six of one and Half a Dozen of the other. I
                        think you are tied up with a couple of Frosty Ones. Auntie's Advice would be
                        to pull down the Blinds and pay a Visit to some other Town where the New
                        Girl is a pleasing Novelty. There permit your Affections to Center on some
                        Tractable Person who is neither a Prospective Pauper nor a close-fisted
                        Clam."
                    The Brunette caught the Wisdom of the Suggestion and took a little Jaunt to
                        Cleveland where she fell desperately in Love with a General Manager of Set
                        Habits and a calm,  untheatrical Generosity.
                        They came to an Understanding and lived happily ever afterward.
                    MORAL: It is Necessary to make a few Purchases both before and
                            after Marriage.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Boston Biologist & The Native with the Blue
                        Hardware
                    DOWN in the Ague Belt there was a town called Miasma. It needed Paint,
                        Sidewalks, Tooth Brushes and Bibles.
                    Everybody in Miasma believed that the Sun rose just in the edge of Widow
                        Clevison's Hog Lot and set over on yon side of the Sand Ridge. While the
                        Residents were Standing around on the warm side of the General Store so as
                        to get shut of the Daily Chill they would feel sorry for Folks who had to
                        put up with Brooklyn and Old Point Comfort.
                    Now it happened that a Boston Biologist  had
                        been in those Parts collecting Amphibious Fauna. The Natives called them
                        Varmints and Sarpentile Insects.
                    One Day the Biologist sat on a long-waisted Truck at the Station Platform and
                        waited for the Train that was to carry him to some Place where he could get
                        Beans properly cooked. He had his Satchel between his Legs and was reading
                        the Numbers on the Freight Cars in order to entertain himself.
                    Presently a Native appeared and walked back and forth in front of the Boston
                        Man. The Native had a Saffron Complexion and wore high-heeled Boots. Every
                        time he stepped there was a muffled Castanet Effect caused by the Quinine
                        Pellets. Every one in Miasma took Quinine, except the Boston Biologist and
                        he took Quin-een.
                    The Native wore on and about his Person  and
                        somewhat exposed to View, a 48-Calibre Shooting-Iron, a Bowie Knife large
                        enough for spading the Garden and several rows of Cartridges.
                    "I reckon we've got the purest Climate and the noblest People on God's Green
                        Footstool," remarked the Native, pausing in front of the Biologist. "Don't
                        say different or I may have to Gallop right through you."
                    "Life is very sweet to me," said the Boston Man. "I am just getting my Golf
                        Score below 120. So I will not Contradict you. Only, I would like to ask."
                    "Come on with it," said the Native.
                    "I would like to ask, who held you while they strapped all those Chatelaine
                        Effects on you?"
                    "I wear these Weepins in order to protect my Honor," replied Mr. Janders, for
                        such was his name.
                    
                    "Your Honor must be hard pushed if you have to tote such an Extensive Kit
                        with which to defend it," observed the Boston Man.
                    "Well, I 've got a Reputation that reaches up and down the Road," said Mr.
                        Janders. "I've never been Curried below the Knees. I'm Long and Woolly. I've
                        got seven or eight Fiery Nostrils and holes bored for more. I'm Pizen Ivy
                        and can't be handled. I hate to talk about myself, but I must say I 'm a
                        Brave Little Man."
                    At that Moment the Train pulled in and the Boston Biologist hurried aboard,
                        resuming the Conversation as he leaned out from the open Window of the Car.
                    "You say you are a Brave Man?" he asked.
                    "You heerd me," replied the Native, picking his Teeth with the Bowie.
                    "What is your Definition of a Brave Man?" asked the Biologist.
                    
                    "A Brave Man is one who is not afeerd to Die," answered Mr. Janders.
                    "Therefore I judge that you are not afraid to depart from Miasma and take
                        your Chances," said the Biologist. "How long have you lived here?"
                    "Twenty-seven Years," was the Reply.
                    The Boston Man looked across the Street at the dun-colored Hotel propped up
                        by a comatose Livery Stable. Near at hand was a Pool of Green Water within
                        which the Bacilli were croaking loudly. The Sky-Line was a row of red clay
                        Hills pin-feathered with Saplings. A brackish Odor of Moonshine Whiskey
                        tingled in the warm Air, and over the whole dejected Landscape lay a soft
                        Pall of the real, Simon-Pure Malariathe kind that can be put up in Tins and
                        sent from Place to Place.
                    "You have lived here twenty-seven Years  and you
                        are not afraid to Die," said the Boston Man, reflectively. "I don't blame
                        you. If I had lived here for twenty-seven Years I would not be afraid to
                        Die, either. In fact, I think I 'd be downright Anxious to Die."
                    But the crafty Biologist did not release this Body Blow until he was good and
                        sure that the Train had started to move.
                    The infuriated Native had to take his chances with a moving Target, so
                        instead of plunking the Man from Boston, he made a Wing Shot on a State
                        Senator who was riding on a Pass.
                    Still, it was taking an Awful Chance.
                    MORAL: Home is where the Heart is.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Knowing Friend Who Tipped off Her Star Recipe
                    IN a shady Street there dwelt two Maidens who had their Traps set and baited.
                    "Come on, Boys," is what it said over the Door. They were at the Age when
                        they lived on Caramels and Excitement. All respectable Males who could talk
                        back and who kept their Hair combed were more than welcome.
                    One of the Girls was a grand little Piece of Work and she had a slew of
                        uppetty-up accomplishments but for some reason her Turnstile did not check
                        as many Visitors as that  of her Chum across
                        the Way. The other Girl might not have copped off many Prizes at a Beauty
                        Contest and it had been remarked that her Piano-Playing was Fierce, and yet
                        she caught a majority of the Callers.
                    One Day as the two Friends were chatting, the one who had the Looks entered a
                        Complaint.
                    "Why is it," she asked, "that you continue to stand Ace High with a lot of
                        the Boys who seem to have passed me up? I know I am counted more of a Beauty
                        than you; my Musical Education cost twice as much and I have got you sewed
                        up in a Sack when it comes to Correct English, yet you draw the Crowd. Where
                        do I fall down?"
                    "Dearie, I hate to let any one else in on a Snap, but I suppose I must,"
                        replied her Companion. "I will admit that as a Grammarian you are a
                        Peachamaroot, but do you  ever stop to consider
                        the Topics that you spring on your Young Men? You sit in front of them and
                        you tell them what a bother it is to Shop all Afternoon and what Girls you
                        saw down town and what a Time your Mamma has been having about a Cook and
                        how Grace said something that just made the other Girls shriek. For a whole
                        Evening you Blat about your own Affairs. Of course, Common Politeness
                        requires the Gentleman to throw on the Fixed Smile and pretend to Follow
                        you, but he is Bored. No Man cares much for what she said and then what you
                        said to her. You never can win a Home by sitting around and talking about
                        yourself and your Girl Friends."
                    "And how do you manage it?" asked the other.
                    "Oh, I suppose I don't know a Thing about the Male Sex, do I?" asked the
                        Popular One with a Squint. "From the Minute that any  Charley-Boy shows up at my Work-Shop, I talk about Him and
                        nothing else. I make him tell me about his Clothes and how he has his Room
                        fixed up. I repeat all that I ever heard any of the Girls say about him. If
                        I can't recall a good Philopene, I vamp one. Anything to keep him Warmed Up.
                        I throw the Lime-Light on him all Evening. He has the Center of the Stage
                        and makes all the Hits and gets all the Flowers. I am simply present to feed
                        him his Cues and demand Encores. Sometimes it is hard work to Boost all
                        Evening but I seldom fail to land him. When he gets up to go at 11 o'clock,
                        he is thrown out in front like a Russian Sleigh. Naturally, he thinks I am
                        just about the Main Lady of the whole Works and he is back to see me again
                        next Evening."
                    "But we are not Orientals," said the Good-Looker, proudly. "If there is to be
                        any Flattering  or Incense-Burning, let the Men
                        do it. I do not believe that Modern Woman should put Man on a Pedestal."
                    "Some Day I will single out one and marry him," said her Friend, in a
                        confidential Whisper. "And when I do, he won't stay up on any Pedestal more
                        than Twenty Minutes. You know me."
                    "I begin to Tumble," said the other, thoughtfully. "I think I can find use
                        for your little Pointer."
                    MORAL: It is better to hold back a few kinds of Conversation for
                            those long Evenings at Home.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The People's Choice Who Answered the Call of Duty &
                        Took Seltzer
                    THE King-Pins of a Great Party decided that the City Ticket could not be
                        elected, so they decided to Recognize the Better Element. If it had been an
                        air-tight certainty, the Nominations would have gone to the Boys who do the
                        Fine Work.
                    In a Residence Street which had a Cast-Iron Deer in nearly every Front Yard,
                        as a slight Concession to Art, there lived a Nice Man who was in the Garden
                        Seed Business. He said "Whom," and wore Nose Glasses. He  never had dallied with the political Buzz-Saw,
                        although he had Convictions on the National Issues and had written one or
                        two Open Letters on Municipal Ownership, signed "Justitia.
                    By some Chance, the Bosses singled out the Garden Seed Man as the Victim for
                        the Off Year Sacrifice. They did not like to see a Good Fellow stand in the
                        Breach and take the Gaff right in the Wish-Bone. If any one had to be
                        Speared, they preferred that it should be some Dead Card who wore Congress
                        Gaiters and Throat Warmers. The Nice Man who dealt in Leeks and Early Peas,
                        seemed to meet all the Requirements. He was due to get the Double Cross on
                        General Principles. In speaking of him they called him The Stiff.
                    When they talked it over in a Wine Room, it was reported that the Garden Seed
                        Man was suspected of being a Lily White, who 
                        seldom stood by the Straight Ticket, that he carried a little Sack of
                        Wintergreen Lozenges and that he never had been known to call Anybody by his
                        First Name. So they took a Vote to see if he should be Butchered to make a
                        Municipal Holiday. A Low Growl of Approval ran around the Table.
                    Two Committeemen who carried an overweight of Jowl and wore Cameos a little
                        smaller than the Home-Plate, went up to the Garden Seed Office and told the
                        Nice Man that the People all over Town were sick with Anxiety to know would
                        he be their Next City Clerk.
                    If he had stopped to Count Up he would have known that not more than 14
                        Persons had ever heard of him. But you can always convince a Nice Man that
                        he is Prominent, and if the Ointment is properly applied and rubbed in so as
                        to get all through the System,  he will think
                        he is real Popular, too.
                    The Committeemen had worked the little Ball in and out of the English Walnuts
                        before shifting to Politics, and they could sit down beside a trusting,
                        unsophisticated Unitarian with an Open-Work Mind and convince him that Red
                        was Yellow.
                    By the time they were through Pumping it into him, he was sure that if he did
                        not accept the Nomination, the Lights would burn Low all over the City and
                        the Little Children would moan in their Trundle Beds. So he put on the
                        Corrugated Brow and tried to look like Caesar at the Lupercal. He said he
                        would have to Knock Under to the Universal Demand. The Committeemen said
                        they would need a little Money right away to get out some Printing. They did
                        not say what kind of Printing, but they relieved him of enough to issue a
                        Public Library.
                    
                    His Wife and her Sister and the Man who took care of the Furnace and his
                        other Friends heard what he was up to. They tried to get a firm Hand-Hold on
                        his Coat-Tails and pull him out of Danger, but he knew better. He said the
                        Populace was Calling for him. No one else heard the Call. It must have come
                        over a Private Wire.
                    The Man who takes the Bit in his Teeth and starts out to try the entire 33
                        Degrees of Chumpery can always find plenty of Good Excuses. He said the
                        Campaign would advertise the Garden Seeds and bring him into Touch with his
                        Fellow-Man. Later on he got into many a Touch.
                    It was surprising how the Voters rallied to him. He was swamped with Pledges
                        of Support. When he was Nominated, he thought he had a Chance. A Week later
                        he began to make a List of the Plums to be distributed.
                    
                    Three Days before Election, it had all the Ear-Marks of a Landslide. It was
                        only a Question of Majorities. He had the Job nailed down on four Sides and
                        then clinched underneath. It was All Over except a few faint Cries of Fraud
                        and then being Sworn In.
                    He was out every Night with a lot of Bag-Punchers who showed him how to
                        convert his Ready Money into Popularity. He was not a Stayer, so he had to
                        take Seltzer at every Stop. He would come Home Carbonated worse than a Soda
                        Fountain and with his Pockets full of pale, dangerous-looking Cigars that
                        his Wife had to remove from his Clothes with a Pair of Tweezers.
                    Sometimes he wondered if the Other Fellow would get any Votes at all.
                    The whole Body of Registered Voters seemed to be falling over one another in
                        their Mad Rush to get into Line for him.
                    
                    Entire Families were flopping to his Support and working for him stronger
                        than an Ox.
                    The Campaign Committee gave it to him Raw two or three times a Week. They
                        could get him into a Back Room at Headquarters and pull down the Blinds and
                        plug Cotton in the Key-Holes and Talk to him in a Stage Whisper. What they
                        had to say could have been talked through a Megaphone at the Street Corner.
                    Once or twice he Bucked a little and said that inasmuch as 95 per cent of the
                        Voters had Declared for him, he did not see the Necessity of Coughing so
                        frequently. They said it was for more Printing. He never saw the Printing,
                        but they rubbed his Shoulders for him and gave him the Hoopteree and assured
                        him it was All Right.
                    As he saw his Balance melt, he was cheered by the Knowledge that he would get
                        it back  several times over in Salary and Fees,
                        and probably be able to turn a few Tricks on the Side.
                    Just before Election everybody runs around in a Circle and kicks up so much
                        Dust that no one but a Clairvoyant can size up the Situation. Even the
                        Garden Seed Man, who had kept his Finger on the Public Pulse, could not
                        accurately estimate his Majorities, but he had a little Table that he had
                        made with a Fountain Pen and a Ruler. It showed that he was merely a few
                        Votes shy of the Unanimous. He was expecting that some one would get up and
                        Move to make him City Clerk by Acclamation.
                    The Ballots were counted and the Garden Seed Man carried one Precinct in the
                        Second Ward and two in the Seventh.
                    At eleven o'clock on Election Night he sat at Headquarters, whence all but
                        him had  fled, and tried to figure out that it
                        would require the Official Count to decide. They had to lead him Home. He
                        did not want to face his Wife. The Other Man was 17,000 ahead and still
                        Running.
                    Instead of taking it as a Joke, the same as Other People did, he got Sore on
                        Humanity in General and joined a Third Party, that was Opposed to
                        everything.
                    MORAL: Draw your Salary before Spending it.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Girl with a Handicap Who Had to Lock Up Her Parents
                    HERE we have a Fable regarding a Nice Girl who liked to have Young Men drop
                        in of an Evening. She always used them the best she knew how and she might
                        have closed a Deal early in the Game, had it not been for her Parents. They
                        were not overly Bright, for they carried the Delusion that they could help
                        Daughter in her efforts to jolly along the local Lotharios.
                    Instead of taking to the Back Rooms and giving little Jeanette full Leeway in
                        the Parlor, they would butt into the Tte--Tte and  try to be Cordial with the Young Man.
                    Father's Idea of making himself the Life of the Party was to tell of his
                        Experiences at the Battle of Stone River and what he said to Cap and what
                        Cap said to him. And plenty more that never got into the Records of the War
                        Department. Mother thought it would Help Some if she would sit over by the
                        Gentleman Caller and refer to the two Distinguished Relatives, so that the
                        Young Man might know that there was a Family Tree. Mother's work was very
                        much to the Sand-Paper and Jeanette would try to Call her off.
                    After Father had told what he could re member about the Civil War and Mother
                        had spread herself on the Prominence of their Connections in the East, the
                        Young Man would move his Feet a few times and guess he would have to be
                        going. Jeanette would follow him out to the Hallway and help him  with his Coat and tuck in his Muffler and tell
                        him to be sure and come back soon. He would Promise, of course, but it was
                        Dollars to Dumplings that many a Moon would Wax and Wane ere George went
                        against that Combination once more.
                    Jeanette was a dutiful Child and respected her Parents, but after they had
                        dished many a Bright Prospect she had to rise up and have her Say.
                    "You two would be Strong Cards in an Old People's Home," she said, "but when
                        it comes to fixing up a Good Time for one of the Boys, you are a couple of
                        superannuated Shines. I am only a poor, weak Maiden, with a Vocabulary of
                        about 300 Words, and I do not belong to the G. A. R. or know much about our
                        Family History, but if you two will go lose yourselves and let me handle all
                        Comers alone and single-handed, I would n't  be
                        a bit surprised if there would be Something Doing in a little while."
                    Although convinced that she needed their Assistance, they yielded to her
                        Wishes. She moved the Sofa out in front of the Grate and extinguished all
                        the Lights except a couple of blue Candles and the next time a Young Man
                        called he did n't care if he never went home.
                    And there was no War Talk.
                    Then when she began to wear an Engagement Ring, Father and Mother had to
                        Admit that she had been right.
                    MORAL: A Good Girl does n't need any Help.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Good Fellow Who Got the Short End of It
                    LIVING in a Country Town there was a Boy who was Easy. When the Gang went
                        fishing they took Him along to carry the Bait, and when they went Swimming
                        in the Deep Hole, he had to stay on the Bank and watch their Clothes.
                    His Right Name was Melford Praxiteles Johnson, but he was so good-natured
                        that everybody saluted him as Mel.
                    Sometimes he would go out to the Commons, where the Boys were playing
                        Two-Old-Cat, and they would have him act as Back-Stop  and chase the Flies. Somebody had to do it, and he was so
                        Accommodating and Friendly he did it rather than delay the Game.
                    All the little bull-headed boys, who threatened to take their Bats and go
                        home unless they could have their own way, played the Star Positions.
                    When he was a little older he went to a Medical School, where he was promptly
                        tossed up in a Blanket and then dropped down an Air-Shaft, because the
                        Hazers saw that he was a Good Fellow and would not go and Squeal to the
                        Faculty.
                    He hung out a Shingle right across the  Street
                        from a Classmate who had finished at the Tail End, and did not know the
                        difference between the Duodenum and the Clavicle. But this Classmate grew
                        Whiskers and wore a Prince Albert and a Tall Hat and Glasses with a Gold
                        Chain and Coughed into his Palm and used Latin Words, and he got the
                        Practice.
                    He was a Physician and Mel was Doc.
                    If a Man came into Mel's Office, suffering from a Combination of Soft-Shell
                        Crabs and Neapolitan Pudding, it would be like Mel to tell him that he had
                        the Stomach-Ache.
                    Then the dissatisfied Patient would go across to see the Physician, who would
                        tell him that he had Acute Gastritis.
                    Anybody would rather have Gastritis than Stomach-Ache, so the Physician had
                        his Waiting-Room crowded all the Time.
                    The Public could not pin its Faith to a 
                        Practitioner who wore a Sack Suit and kept his Hat on the Back of his Head
                        and spoke to the Children along the Street, and never used Double-Jointed
                        Words from the Materia Medica unless he had to.
                    Still Doc managed to get some Practice. If any Sufferer happened to be Broke,
                        he went to Doc, because Doc was a Good Fellow, who could be Stood Off. Doc
                        got all the Charity Cases and the Fake across the Street treated all the
                        Women who had Property and Imaginary Complaints.
                    Shortly after Doc began to Practise, he fell in Love, but no one took it
                        Seriously. The Girl liked Doc because he was entertaining and liberal, up to
                        his Income, but when he Proposed, his Sense of Humor prevented him from
                        getting down on his Knees and giving her any of this Mrs. E. D. N.
                        Southworth Hanky-Pank.
                    
                    She had the usual streak of the Romantic in her Make-Up, and she refused to
                        consider his offhand Request. She gave herself to an opinionated Willie-Boy
                        who was always having himself Photographed in a Dress Suit, and who came at
                        her with a Ten-Minute Speech that he had learned from a Book on "How to Make
                        Love," published by Munro & Co.
                    Then because Doc's Philosophy and his Goodness of Heart came to his Rescue
                        and he Forgave her and did not Drink himself to Death or start for the Gold
                        Fields with her Picture next to his Heart, nearly every one said that he had
                        not Cared for her at all and was not capable of the Grand Passion.
                    After Doc had struggled along in his Profession for many Years without having
                        any Velvet in front of him, he decided to try for a Political Appointment.
                        Every one seemed to like him and he knew he could get Backing.  He thought very well of his Drag. Sure enough,
                        when he applied for a Consulate, all the influential Moguls of the Party
                        signed his Petition. Then they sat down and wrote Private Letters to
                        Back-Cap him.
                    They told the President that he was a Good Fellow, but he lacked Dignity and
                        Bearing. They said that he was commonly known as Mel or Doc, that he had a
                        Reputation as a Story-Teller, that he had been a Failure in his Profession,
                        and never accumulated any Property, that he was Careless in his Business
                        Habits and loaned Money to any one who seemed to be in Trouble, and that,
                        therefore, although he had been an Active Worker, possibly the Appointment
                        ought to go to some Man who had more regard for Solemn Responsibilities.
                    So the Job was given to a Four-Flush who posed in Public Places and Frowned
                        and kept  one Hand inside of his Coat and never
                        said anything because he had Nothing to say.
                    Even after this final Throw-Down Doc did not become embittered or cease
                        trying to be a Good Fellow.
                    One Day, however, as he was reviewing his Career, he decided that if he had
                        it to do over again, he would be M. Praxiteles Johnson and wear the Front of
                        Jove.
                    He realized that he had Erred in trying to be a Mixer. He wished that he had
                        kept his Degree printed on all his Cards and hung an Articulated Skeleton
                        inside of his Office Door. Also, he began to understand that it is advisable
                        to crowd in on the Platform at every public Pow-wow and be played up as a
                        Prominent Citizen. Furthermore, he wished that he had Dressed the same as an
                        Undertaker.
                    It would have been a Hard Job to keep up  the
                        Monumental Bluff, but then one must always pay a price for True Success.
                    MORAL: Be Dignified and Serious, if possible.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Husband Who Showed Up & Did the Best He Knew How
                    ONCE there was a Wife who Entertained a great deal. She was all the time
                        fixing up Layer Cakes, Combination Salad, Siberian Punch and Salted Almonds,
                        even though the Bills piled up until her Husband was seldom more than two
                        Jumps ahead of a Collector.
                    She was never more Happy than when she had the House full of grown-up
                        Fairies, all talking at the same time. For two or three Days after an
                        unusually Swell Session, she would sweep around the House in a Flowered
                        Wrapper, stepping high and feeling that  she
                        could give Cards and Spades to Mrs. Potter Palmer.
                    She always had a Gallon or more of Visiting Cards in a German Silver Tureen
                        in the front Hallway. Any one who dropped in was sure to notice that she was
                        on Close Terms with the Best of Them. She used to Bulletin all the Doings at
                        her House in Red Letters a foot high, and then when the Society Reporters
                        came to get Names and Costumes, she would let on to be Annoyed, and say it
                        was Funny that One could not have a little Gathering without the Papers
                        wanting to know all about it. She preferred that Nothing Whatever be said
                        about her Reception, but if the Forward Press insisted on printing
                        something, they might say that it was a Rip-Sizzer, and the Beautiful
                        Hostess wore a striking Creation in Pale Mauve Satinette and a quart of
                        Diamonds.
                    
                    The Husband of this Woman had no liking for Violet Teas or afternoon Whist
                        Orgies. When his Wife was tearing open the Street with one of her Social
                        Events, he preferred to stay Down Town and get a little Snack rather than
                        Face the Music. He felt more at ease with a Swiss Cheese Sandwich in a
                        German Place than he did while partaking of Brick Ice Cream and listening to
                        Stories about the Pastor.
                    He got many Raps because of his evident Desire to Duck on the Festivities.
                        Very often his Wife would give him a Turning-Over for his Failure to Show
                        Up. She would ask him why he could not be like Mr. So-and-So, who always
                        helped his Wife pass the Tea, and who went from one Woman to another with
                        neat little Compliments. The Husband replied that if he had to be the same
                        as Mr. So-and-So in order to make himself a Parlor Favorite, he  hoped that he would continue to be merely one
                        of the Also Rans. In his Opinion, the Husband that she had set up as a
                        Shining Example was a feather-brained Gussie, who ought to be Drummed Out of
                        the Community. He said he had no Use for a Married Man big enough to pull a
                        Dray who carried a Pocket Handkerchief inside of his Cuff, and chatted about
                        Dress Goods. If she wanted that kind of an Article around the House she had
                        better pull the Rope and ask for a Transfer.
                    She came back by saying that she would just as soon see a Gentleman making
                        himself agreeable to a Covey of Refined Ladies as see him off in a Club with
                        a lot of Passenger Agents and Horse Breeders, pulling for Table Stakes and
                        punishing Manhattans. Furthermore, she thought things had come to a Pretty
                        Pass when a Husband would sneak  in the Back
                        Way and crawl up stairs to avoid meeting his Wife's Guests. She nagged him
                        until he decided that he would go in for her kind of Fun just to Keep Peace
                        in the Family.
                    One day when the Street in front of his House was jammed with Coups and
                        Broughams and there was a Strip of Red Carpet trailed down the Front Stoop,
                        just to give the Place a Tone, he came Home early and got into his Frock.
                        This Man despised himself whenever he was in Ministerial Togs. He always was
                        feeling for the Side Pockets. When he caught a Glimpse of himself in the
                        Mirror, he realized that he was a Ringer for the Neat Artist who comes out
                        in the Variety Show to play on the Sleigh Bells.
                    But it was up to him to please the Wife, so he got into his Long Suit and
                        wrestled with the White Ascot, and gummed his hair  down and rubbed a little Scent on himself so as to be as
                        Offensive as possible, and went down to Mingle. He gave every one the highup
                        Handshake, and said he was Awfully Glad to see her, and Beamed and Nodded
                        and carried on as Unnatural as possible. It was a Flying Start. His Wife
                        stood back, her eyes popping with Pleased Surprise, for a Woman always likes
                        to Exhibit her Husband if he has been trained for the Show Ring.
                    This Husband was set on making a full Afternoon of it, after going to all the
                        Trouble of changing Clothes and having his Hair cut. He was there to help
                        Entertain the Guests if it was in him. So he slowly circulated about the
                        Room, looking for some one who would meet him Half Way. When he spotted the
                        Young Widow with the Coaxing Dimples and the taunting Smile, he said to
                        himself that he could do no better, for she was the  Town Talk. So he put himself alongside of her and began to make
                        Spicy Observations. He had heard that one is permitted a certain Latitude
                        with Widows, and he went in for the whole 180 Degrees. Instead of telling
                        the Widow that the Weather had been very Changeable of late, he whispered to
                        her that every Single Man in Town was ready to Marry her at the Drop of the
                        Hat. She hit him Twice with her Fan and began to think he was not such a
                        Dummy after all.
                    He said that if only he was Foot-Loose probably he would have a little
                        Proposition to make to her. Then he started in to tell her how Crazy she had
                        all the Fellows he knew. She became Flushed and said it was Terrible to tell
                        her such Things and to please go ahead.
                    It was a Noble Effort at Entertaining, and he did not seem to mind the Work.
                        They  were quite Wrapped Up in each other, with
                        the Heads about three-quarters of an inch apart, so they did not realize
                        that all the Women in the Room were accumulating Material for a rich,
                        succulent Piece of Gossip.
                    As for the Charming Hostess, who was compelled to witness the Brazen
                        Performance for twenty minutes, she was so Red-Headed that she was splashing
                        Tea and upsetting Lady Fingers all over the Best Table Cover. When Hubby
                        cooed something right into the tiny Ear of the Flirtatious Widow and she
                        gave him a saucy overhand Slap on the Elbow, the Lady of the House let out a
                        quick Gasp, and it looked for a Moment as if she would Keel.
                    The Hostess had the Feminine Instinct, and she knew that the scandalous
                        Going-On between her Husband and the shameless Widow had laid the Foundation
                        for more or less spiteful  Guess-Work. She was
                        Mad enough to Scratch and Pull Hair. Not that she was Jealous. Only a little
                        Provoked, that was all.
                    After all of them had gone and her Handkerchief was out and he was being
                        Raked over the Coals, he waved his Arms in Despair.
                    "Didn't you want me to Report here and be Agreeable?" he demanded. "I thought
                        I was Fine and Daisy. The Widow says she never saw me give a Flash of my
                        True Form before to-day. I came here to put in my Best Licks at
                        Entertaining. I think I did it, on the level, for the Widow says I am a Bad
                        Boy, and she has promised me her Picture in a Locket."
                    Whereupon his Wife Shrieked and flounced over into an Arm-Chair, completely
                        Out.
                    MORAL: Only One in a Thousand ever strikes the Happy
                        Medium.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Bureau of Public Comfort & The Man in Charge
                    THE Druggist stood in his Place of Business surrounded by Capsules, Hot Water
                        Bags, Perfumes and Fluid Extracts. A Man came in and said he wanted to look
                        at the Directory. Then he asked if "Murphy" was spelled with an "f." He
                        looked at the Hair Brushes, whistled a few bars of the "Spring Song" and
                        went out.
                    A Small Boy entered and wanted to trade two empty Bottles for a Piece of
                        Licorice Root. The Deal fell through, because the Bottles had a Name blown
                        in the Glass.
                    
                    A Woman came in and said she was waiting for a Friend. She had the Druggist
                        bring her a Glass of Plain Water. She said she could not drink Soda Water
                        because the Gas got up her Nose.
                    Another Woman came in for a Stamp. She did not have any Change with her, but
                        was going to come in and hand him the Two Cents some time; that is, if he
                        was Small enough to remember it.
                    The next who came in was a Man with hardly any Chin. He wanted a Free Sample
                        of Liver Pills and an Almanac telling the Date of the Battle of New Orleans,
                        when the Sun rises and sets and why the Chicken crossed the Road.
                    After him there came a Man who was in a Hurry and wanted to use the 'Phone.
                        He was vexed when he learned that Skinner & Skinner did not have any
                        Number. He asked  the Druggist why it was. The
                        Druggist said he was sorry and would See to it before the Man came in again.
                    Soon after two little Girls came on a Run and helped themselves to Picture
                        Cards. They left the Door open, and a Boy in Overalls stepped in to ask if
                        he could hang a Lithograph in the Window. The Druggist went back into the
                        Laboratory and got a large stone Pestle. He was just ready to beat the Life
                        out of the Cash Register when an Elderly Gentleman came in with a
                        Prescription.
                    The Druggist Stayed the Blow and chirked up quite a bit. "This is where I
                        catch even on the Day," he said.
                    It was no Mirage. He had to and he did.
                    MORAL: Don't Blame the Druggist.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of Uncle Silas & The Matrimonial Game
                    UNCLE SILAS was a County-Seat Oracle. When he backed up to the Soft Coal
                        Stove in the Grocery Store and parted his Coat-tails and began to breathe
                        Wisdom, every one else Sang Low. He would give the National Administration a
                        sharp Calling Down every few Days and if the City Council ordered any
                        Improvements that did not suit him, he spoke of the Body as a Passel of
                        Lunkheads. He knew how to cure Stringhalt and Chilblains or make a Flax-Seed
                        Poultice or persuade a Hen to Lay or get the Wiggle-Tails  out of Rain-Water. Uncle Silas could guess how
                        many Hands high a Horse was and he knew what kind of Bait to use for
                        Goggle-Eyes and that Corn ought to be Planted in the Dark of the Moon. As a
                        Weather Prophet he was Old Lightning. Uncle Sile was just as Spry as a
                        Sparrow and Sharp as any Steel Trap.
                    A good many Young Folks came and squatted at the Feet of Uncle Silas so as to
                        get Truth in the Original Package. He never spouted more copiously than when
                        he was holding forth to the Fledgelings. In fact, the Younger and more sappy
                        the Listeners the more elaborate was his Discourse. Among those who came to
                        the Free Dispensary to get the benefit of Uncle Silas' vast Experience was a
                        certain He-Belle who had been Girling for five or six Years and was about
                        ready to do something Desperate.
                    "I want your Advice," he said. "I think I  can
                        support a Wife in the Style to which she has been accustomed, providing she
                        has not been accustomed to very much, but before Shutting my Eyes and doing
                        the Plunge, I thought I would get your Opinion as to the Move. Do you
                        consider it a Wise Play?"
                    Uncle Silas looked at the Young Man out of the Corner of his Eye and Chortled
                        knowingly.
                    "The Smooth Citizen never gives Advice on Family Matters," said the Sage. "I
                        am ready to Gas freely on most Topics, but when it comes to a Question of
                        committing Matrimony, that is where I begin to Back and Fill. I am like my
                        old friend Ben Franklin who told the Inquirer that every Man sooner or later
                        comes to the Parting of the Ways. He must choose between the broad and easy
                        Path that leads to Single Misery and the straight and narrow Road that leads
                        to Married  Unhappiness. As Ben expressed it,
                        no matter which Way the poor Fellow Heads, he will be Sore, now and then,
                        that he did not take a Chance on the other Route. Every Married Man at some
                        time or other has a sneaking Desire to be Free, and every case-hardened
                        Bachelor occasionally runs into a lonesome Streak when he feels that he
                        would willingly give 10 Years of his misspent Life to have just one chubby
                        Darling to call him 'Pop.' Matrimony is such a long Contract and has so many
                        Ups and Downs that sometimes it seems a sure Winner to those on the Outside
                        and again it is enveloped in a blue Fog for those who have to Put Up with
                        it. If I get behind you and give you a hard Shove toward the Married State,
                        you will be kept Guessing for Years as to whether I meant it as a Good Turn
                        or was trying to Do you. Let us suppose that some Day 15 or 20  Years from now you come Home to find that the
                        Furnace has flickered, the Cook has done the Vanishing Lady Act, two of the
                        Children have the Scarlet Rash and the Better Half is Weeping Softly and
                        seems to think that you are to blame for all the Tribulation. You escape to
                        the Cellar and throw Hard Coal at yourself for a while and then suddenly you
                        remember that it was I who advised you to Marry and Settle Down. Thereupon
                        you hurry to a Hardware Store and you buy one of these Carpenter Pencils,
                        that makes a wide Mark, and you go out to the Grave-Yard and write Insulting
                        Remarks all over my white Head-Stone. And it would be just as bad if I
                        advised you not to take the Fatal Step. The Time surely would come when you
                        would be laid up in some Vermicelli Joint, suffering from Indigestion and
                        Hotel Melancholy, and then you would moan something about 'Of  all Sad Words of Tongue or Pen' and say, 'Ah,
                        I might have been cozily domiciled in a Cheery Cot, reading Ghost Stories to
                        my own little Kiddies this very Night, if it had not been for that hoary old
                        Fraud who steered me away from getting Married.' So you see I have an
                        Elegant Chance to satisfy you, no matter what I tell you to do. The trouble
                        is that we have our Off Days, whether we are Married or Single. A Man cannot
                        get up every Morning and strike Concert Pitch the first Pull across the
                        Strings, no matter how desirous he may be to keep in Harmony. Again, after a
                        Man has Tied Up for a while, he begins to recall the Bright Spots in his
                        Career as a Bachelor and he is prone to imagine that all the Unmarried Boys
                        are having one long Crimson Jollification. On the other hand, the male
                        Hold-Over occasionally gets a Flash of Domestic Bliss under the most  favorable Conditions, and goes back to his
                        substitute for a Home feeling that a Bachelor Existence is a Dog's Life at
                        the best."
                    "Then a Man cannot be Happy, no matter what Programme he undertakes?" asked
                        the Young Man, in a discouraged Tone.
                    "Legal Ceremonies and a change of Boarding Houses do not greatly modify our
                        Ratio," replied Uncle Silas. "You see, every Man has about so many Kicks
                        coming, and he has to use them up, whether he is Married or Single. When we
                        are slightly Off our Feed, we are likely to imagine that what we have n't
                        got and can't get is the One Desirable Thing. Thus we have the diverting
                        Picture of the Benedicts sitting around in Envy of the Bachelors, while
                        those who are playing Lone Hands feel that they would be much better off
                        with Partners. I could n't rig up a Policy for you that would not cause me
                        to be disliked. I think you had  better go out
                        and Shake Dice with yourself to find out what you want to do. But no matter
                        what your Course may be, you want to remember that there are Cloudy Days in
                        all Latitudes. There are Moments when we would fain jump our Environment."
                    "Perhaps I had better go it Blind," suggested the Bachelor.
                    "Most People do," said Uncle Silas. "A Leap in the Dark may land you in a
                        Patch of Canadian Thistles or a Bed of Roses, but no matter where you Bring
                        Up, you will get used to it."
                    MORAL: Always advise a Friend to do that which you are sure he
                            is not going to do. Then, if his Venture fails, you will receive credit
                            for having warned him. If it succeeds, he will be happy in the
                            Opportunity to tell you that you were Dead Wrong.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Old Merchant, the Sleuth & The Tapioca
                    A HIGH-PRICED Detective was sitting in his Lair, trying to look Mysterious,
                        when there came to him a gray-muzzled old Business Man. The Latter was noted
                        for his Probity, his Keenness and the Fact that he never Thawed. In the
                        Commercial Agencies he was Rated AA Plus A1, which meant that he had it in
                        Bales.
                    "I wish to enlist your Services," said the Great Merchant. "A Young Man who
                        lately has come into a World of Money desires to be admitted to Partnership
                        in our Large  Business. We are an Old and
                        Reputable Concern, and before associating ourselves with this Stripling we
                        wish to know all about his Character and Habits. We want you to Camp on his
                        Trail and give us a straight Line on his Daily Life."
                    So the Main Detective called in a couple of Ferrets, who drew Twelve a Week,
                        and they began to Shadow the Young Man at $8 a Day. They put on Gum Shoes
                        and covered their Faces with black Muffs, such as are worn by the Train
                        Robbers in a Davis and Keogh Melodrama. They peeked over Transoms and
                        shinned up Fire Escapes and hid behind Bill-Boards, and every time the Young
                        Man made a Move they were Next. At the end of a Week the Celebrated
                        Detective made a Report to the Pious Patriarch who had employed him.
                    "I regret to tell you that the Young  Man who
                        seeks a Connection with your Well-Known House is a Night Hawk and a
                        Spender," said the Superintendent. "He is trying to dim the Record of
                        Coal-Oil Johnny. He opens Cold Magnums for the Merry-Merry almost every
                        Midnight, and he is having Diamonds set into the Teeth of Nine of the
                        Peroxide Sisters. By the time that he lands into his Happy Clothes of an
                        Evening he is fairly well Corned, and he sees the Dawn of Morning through a
                        Purple Haze. In the Afternoon, when he arises, he has a Hang-Over which is
                        made the Foundation of something very Tidy in the way of a Skate. He begins
                        to Push the Button and absorb the tall Pick-Me-Ups. For a six o'clock
                        Breakfast he has a few Cigarettes and some of the cold Zippy-Zip. Thus he
                        contrives to be the Custodian of a continuous Bun and stave off the
                        Katzenjammer, his Life resolving itself  into
                        one long Honolulu Sunset. His Associates are a fine Bunch of Rowdy-Dows, who
                        lean over when they Walk, and wear Lilac Gloves in the Summer Time. Their
                        one Joy is to purchase little Hot Birds and big Johannesburg Twinklers for
                        the Ladies depicted on the Lithos."
                    "My! my!" said the staid old Merchant, as he shook his silvered Head. "He
                        must be a Lah-Lah if he can hold to that Gait. I suppose he plays the
                        Drunken Sailor with his Money."
                    "I regret to say that he does," replied the Eminent Sleuth. "All the Tin-Horn
                        Sports and Shoe-String Gamblers speak of him as their Meal Ticket. He is put
                        against a new Brace Game every Week. He is so Soft that sometimes even the
                        hardened Sheet-Writers feel that it is a Shame to take it away from him. But
                        they need the Vulgar Mazume, so they lighten him."
                    
                    "Is it not Sad to see a pin-headed Rake dissipating a Large Fortune built up
                        by some one who Walked to save Car Fare?" asked the Old Gentleman. "You are
                        sure that he has no Business Gumption?"
                    "No more than a Rabbit," was the Reply of the Detective. "He is a Come-On for
                        any Bunco Game in the List. He is a Ninny. Should you give him an Interest
                        in your Business he would show up at his Desk about once a Month, and if you
                        handed him an Assessment he would think it was a Dividend."
                    "I thank you for your Report," said the Pillar of Trade. "We will admit the
                        Young Man to a Full Partnership and urge him to put in all the Coin at his
                        Command."
                    "I am surprised," said the Sleuth. "He is a horrible Light Weight."
                    "That is why he will be a Mark for a cool-headed Johnny Wise who lives on
                        Cereal  Food and gets into his Pajams at 9.30
                        every Evening," said the Prominent Merchant with a slight Grin. "Why should
                        all this lovely Money go to Cabmen and straw-colored Sou-brettes when it
                        might as well be Garnered by an Honored Citizen who would know how to Invest
                        it? From what you tell me of the Rapid Youth I conclude that he would be
                        Meat for a crafty Side Partner."
                    Next Day the Chorus Girls' Friend was Taken In, and eighteen Months later the
                        steady old Partner with the Snowy Locks had him euchred down to the Clothes
                        on his Back.
                    His Fortune was permanently Invested in an Old and Reliable Establishment,
                        and he was on his Uppers for fair.
                    MORAL: Any one who has the Qualifications can get in with a
                            First-Class Firm.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of Springfield's Fairest Flower and Lonesome Agnes Who Was
                        Crafty
                    SPRINGFIELD had a Girl who was being Courted by a Syndicate. She was the Girl
                        who took First Prize at the Business Men's Carnival. When the Sunday Paper
                        ran a whole Page of Typical Belles she had the Place of Honor.
                    If a Stranger from some larger Town was there on a Visit and it became
                        necessary to Knock his Eye out and prove to him that Springfield was
                        strictly In It, they took him up to call on Mazie. Mazie never failed to
                        Bowl him over, for she was a Dream of Love-liness  when she got into her Glad Raiment. Mazie had large mesmeric
                        Eyes and a Complexion that was like Chaste Marble kissed by the Rosy Flush
                        of Dawn. She carried plenty of Brown Hair that she Built Up by putting Rats
                        under it. When she sat very straight on the edge of the Chair, with the
                        queenly Tilt of the Chin and the Shoulders set back Proudly and the Skirt
                        sort of Whipped Under so as to help the General Outline, she was certainly a
                        Pleasing Object to size up. She did not Fall Down at any Point.
                    Mazie had such a Rush of Men Callers that the S. R. O. Sign was out almost
                        every Night, and when the Weather permitted she had Overflow Meetings on the
                        Veranda.
                    Right across the Street from Beautiful Mazie there lived a Girl named Agnes,
                        who was Fair to Middling, although she could not Step it Off within twenty
                        Seconds of  Mazie's regular Gait. Sometimes
                        when she happened to get the right Combination of Colors and wore a Veil and
                        you did not get too Close, she was not Half Bad, but as soon as she got into
                        the same Picture with Mazie, the Man Charmer, she was faded to a Gray
                        Bleach.
                    All the plain, everyday XX Springfield Girls, designed for Family Use and not
                        for Exhibition Purposes, used to wish that Mazie would go away somewhere and
                        forget to come back.
                    The Other Girls had to Admit that Mazie was a good deal of a Tangerine, but
                        they did not Enthuse the same as their Brothers did. You cannot expect a lot
                        of Spirited Girls to strike a Chord in G and sing any Anthem of Praise to a
                        Friend who is trying to make Wall Flowers of them. When some Poor Man who
                        was off his Dip on Matchless Mazie,  the Sprite
                        of Springfield, would start a Rhapsody to some other Girl, the Other Girl
                        would say Yes, that Mazie was a Sweet and Lovely Girl, but when she said it
                        she would look as if she had just tasted a Lemon.
                    But Agnes, who lived across the Street from the Pearl of Springfield, tried
                        to be Cheerful and Keep her Hammer hidden, although goodness knows she had
                        Reason to feel Put Out. It is Hard Lines for a Sociable Girl to sit around
                        the House and practise Finger movements on the Piano and see everything
                        Lighted Up across the Street.
                    Agnes felt sometimes as if she would just have to Up and Tell the Boys what a
                        deceitful, two-faced old Thing this Mazie really was. But she knew better
                        than to do it, for Mazie had all of them Zizzy and they
                        would have said that Agnes was Miffed because of Mazie's Popularity.
                    
                    Agnes understood that Men always show a Strong Preference for a Feather
                        Headed Girl, if she has the Looks and a Circus Style, and particularly if
                        all the sedate, well read, plain, intellectual Girls are trying to Close Up
                        ahead of her, so as to throw her into a Pocket.
                    So long as Mazie was the Reigning Fad, and while Mazie's Front Room was the
                        Mecca for Golf Players and Glee Club Undergraduates, Agnes sat back, a
                        trifle Forlorn, but not so Rattled that she took any Chances of Queering her
                        own Game.
                    Sometimes when there was such a Push at Mazie's Home that the Late Comers
                        could not get up to within Rubbering Distance of the celebrated Siren of
                        Springfield, and it was too Early to go Home, one or two of the Young Men
                        would drift over to pay a little Attention to Agnes. Here was the chance for
                             Agnes to make the Mistake of her Life. But
                        she never asked them if they had been to see Mazie first, and she never made
                        any of these unwelcome Cracks about being Second Choice. She received them
                        with the long Hand Clasp and the Friendly Smile, and threw herself to
                        Entertain them, wotting well that now and then a Girl must pocket her Pride
                        and she Laughs Best who postpones her Laughing until after the Banns have
                        been Published.
                    Instead of seeking to undermine the Uncrowned Queen of Springfield and put
                        the Skids under her, she lauded Mazie to the Skies. She asked the Boys if
                        they did not think that Mazie was a Dashing Beauty and by far the Swellest
                        in Town, and was it any Wonder that the whole Crowd was Dotty about her.
                        When she talked like that, Beaux who had been getting the gleaming  Cold Shoulder from Mazie, were inclined to
                        Demur and say that Mazie was unquestionably an Artist on the Make-Up and a
                        Caution when it came to Coquettish Wiles, but there were Others just as
                        Nice.
                    In this Town of Springfield there was a Steady Young Fellow who wrote Junior
                        after his Name, and was Prospective Heir to an Iron Foundry. He was Foolish
                        about Mazie for quite a Spell, but when he went up to see her and try to
                        make it worth her Time to look him over, the Door-Bell kept ringing, and he
                        found that instead of conducting a Courtship he was simply getting in on a
                        Series of Mass Meetings. So he dropped out of the Competition and took to
                        calling on Agnes, and found that he was the Whole Thing. She treated him
                        Kindly and never disagreed with him except on one Point. Whenever he would
                        say that Mazie was getting the  Big Head and
                        put on too many Frills to suit him, and had been Spoiled by having so many
                        on her Staff at one time, Agnes would stick up for her Friend, and say that
                        she could hardly blame any Man for giving in to the Superlative Charms of
                        One who had Julia Marlowe set back a Mile.
                    She kept that Talk going until he was good and tired of having Mazie
                        dingdonged at him. One Evening he stopped her right in the middle of an
                        Eulogium and suggested that they let up on the Mazie Topic and talk about
                        Themselves for a while. And although she Protested, he convinced her that
                        she was worth a Ten Acre Field full of Mazies.
                    So they were Married and went to Niagara Falls and came Home and still Mazie
                        remained Single.
                    She was supposed to be several Notches too High Up for any One Man in
                        Springfield.  After getting such Job Lots of
                        Adulation and having at least six pulsating Courtiers kneeling on her Sofa
                        Pillows every Evening it would have been a Tame Let-Down for her to splice
                        up with one lone Business Man and settle down to a dull Existence in some
                        Apartment House.
                    So it came about that there was a General Impression in Springfield that
                        Mazie was the Unattainable. She was a kind of Public Character to be
                        Idolized, but not removed from the Pedestal. The discouraged Suitors fell
                        away one by one, and married the ordinary Girls who were willing to Play
                        Fair and not keep the Applicants dangling. Mazie took up with a new
                        Generation and seemed to believe that she could reign Forever, the same as
                        the Elfin Queen in the Fairy Tale.
                    But the Peach Crops come and go.
                    After a few Years Mazie's Door-Bell did  not
                        Tinkle with its whilom frequency, and right down the Street there was a
                        Seventeen-Year-Older who had shot up out of Short Dresses like a Willow
                        Sprout, and it was her Picture that went into the Special Illustrated
                        Edition as Springfield's Fairest Daughter.
                    Mazie saw that the Vernal Season had passed and the Harvest Time was at Hand,
                        so she decided to chop the Philandering and pick one for Keeps. But when she
                        began to encourage the Eligibles they took it to mean that she was
                        prolonging the same old String Game. The Men who knew that she had turned
                        down at least Fifty figured that there was no Possible Chance for them, so
                        they were Leery and would not be led into Committing themselves. Besides,
                        Mazie had been handed around by so many that she was beginning to be Graded
                        as Second Hand, and  there was not the same
                        keen Anxiety to capture her that there had been along about the Year of the
                        World's Fair.
                    At last Accounts she was supposed to be Guessing. Agnes is doing Nicely, with
                        a well trained Husband.
                    MORAL: Cheer Up, Girls.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Wise Piker Who Had the Kind of Talk That Went
                    ONCE there was a man who wore a Six Hat and had a Head shaped like an Egg
                        Plant. He had not found time to sit down and absorb Culture. Yet he had to
                        go out and meet the high Mansard Foreheads. Sometimes he found himself in
                        the Front Room where every one was expected to discuss Literature, Art,
                        Music and the Difficulty of getting good Kitchen Help.
                    This Man was a Pin-Head in a good many Respects, but he was Wise as a
                        Serpent.
                    This Man was what Edmund Clarence  Stedman would
                        call a Piker. A Piker is one who gets into the Game on Small Capital and
                        Lets On to be holding back a huge Reserve. A Piker is usually Safe when he
                        sagatiates among the Well-Bred because they are too Polite to call a Bluff.
                    A Piker always has his entire Stock of Goods in the Show Window.
                    When it came to Music, the Piker did not know the difference between a Fugue
                        and a Cantata. Such knowledge of Literature as he could boast was picked up
                        by reading the Posters in front of Book-Stores. The average Katy-Did had
                        about as much Art Education as he could have Spread had it come to a
                        Show-Down. He had as much Business in an Assemblage of cultivated
                        Chautauquans as a man with a ragged $2.00 Bill would have in Wall Street.
                        Yet he managed to cut Figure Eights over the Thin Ice and he had the name
                             of being one of the Brainiest Gentlemen
                        that ever accepted an Invitation to the Evening Session of the Olympian
                        Circle of Hens.
                    The Piker knew the Value of the Stock Phrase. And the way he could raise a
                        Dust and dodge out of a Tight Place was a little Bit of All Right.
                    One evening the Piker went to call on Mrs. Hester Kazam, author of many
                        unpublished Poems, and the boss Diana of the Tuft-Hunters. At the Kazam
                        Home, which is rigged up with Red Blankets and Green Lamps so as to be
                        Oriental, he bumped into Henrietta Hunter Haw, who will be remembered as the
                        Young Lady who poured at the Afternoon Reception to F. Hopkinson Smith.
                    Miss Haw reclined at half length in the Turkish Corner and asked the Piker
                        what he thought of Sienkiewicz. The Piker knew that he had heard that name
                        sprung somewhere  before, but if he had tried
                        to Pronounce it, he would have gone to the Floor. He didn't know whether
                        Sienkiewicz was the author of "Lovers Once but Strangers Now" or "The
                        Gentleman from Arkansaw." However, he was not to be Feazed. He knew the kind
                        of Conversational Parsley that is needed to Garnish a full-blown
                        Intellectual Vacuum, and he passed some of it to Henrietta.
                    He said he liked Sienk, so far as the Psychological Analysis was concerned,
                        but it sometimes occurred to him that there was a lack of Insight and Broad
                        Artistic Grasp.
                    That is the Style of Vapor calculated to keep a Young Woman anchored right in
                        the Turkish Corner and make her believe she has met the Really and Truly
                        Gazip.
                    The Piker unreeled a little more of the same kind. He said that the
                        Elaboration of Incident showed a certain Modicum of Skill,  but there was not enough Plus-Human Sympathy
                        in the Coloring of the Subtle Motives. When the Piker got rid of this he was
                        always Relieved, for it is an Awful Thing to Memorize and carry around with
                        you.
                    Afterward Miss Haw went out and told her Girl Friends that the Piker was
                        Terrible Deep.
                    When they brought up Music, that was where the Piker lived. He could get in
                        early and stay late and never Trip himself up. He had attended a couple of
                        Concerts and at one time boarded with a Lady who played the Autoharp.
                    One Evening when he was out with a few People who were such Thorough
                        Musicians that they seemed Sour about something all the time, a Tall Man
                        with a Low Collar asked him if he had heard that latest Thing by
                        Tschaikowsky.
                    
                    If he had made it Charles K. Harris, the Piker might have been with him. But
                        he never turned a Hair.
                    "Impressive, isn't it?" he said, having learned how to Spar for Wind, without
                        leaving an Opening.
                    "Yes, but it didn't get into me the way Vogner does," replied the Tall Party.
                    This was the Cue for the Piker to insert his Speech on Vogner.
                    He said he preferred Vogner any day in the Week on account of the distinct
                        Appeal to the Intellectual Side and the Atmosphere of Mysticism, whatever
                        that was. He said he couldn't listen to Vogner without going into a Cold
                        Sweat and Chewing the Buttons off his Gloves, particularly if the
                        Interpretation was made with a Broad and Comprehensive Virtuosity and such
                        Mastery of Technique as to abolish all suggestion of the Intermediary  and bring one into direct Communion with the
                        Soul-Moods.
                    Then the Tall Man would know just as much about it as the Piker did.
                    Among the Acquaintances was a Lady named Wigley, who was Crazy about Art. In
                        her Parlor she had one of her own Works entitled "Sunset on the Little Miami
                        River," with a Frame that cost $26.00. It was Miss Wigley who read the Paper
                        before the Raphael Suburbanites, setting forth that the Highest Effects
                        could not be obtained by the Use of Crayon. She loved to hear the Piker cut
                        loose about Art. Even when he got in over his Head, she was right there
                        swimming along after him and never missing a Stroke.
                    Mrs. Wigley was stuck on his Conversation because he said so many things that
                        could be Thought About later on. Nearly every one  who heard him went Home and Thought about what he had said and
                        Wondered what he had been Driving at.
                    Mrs. Wigley had a Theory that an Artist who is any Good at all should be able
                        to suggest through the Medium of Colors all that he or she felt and suffered
                        during the Throes of Execution. So she called in the Piker to size up her
                        Picture of the Little Miami River at Sundown and asked him what Emotion, if
                        any, was stirred up within him as he gazed at the Effort. The Piker said it
                        gave him a touch of Sadness. Then she knew he was a real Critic all right.
                    The Piker kept it up until after a while he began to think that possibly he
                        was something of a Sassy Savant.
                    He was elected Director of a Museum and was invited to sit on the Platform at
                        Lectures. And at last he departed this Life, with  only a few Relatives and Intimate Friends being on to him.
                    MORAL: For Parlor Use the Vague Generality is a Life-Saver.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Two Wives Who Talked about Their Husbands
                    ACERTAIN Mrs. A. had a Way of reading the Riot Act to the Other Half of the
                        Domestic Sketch. She was constantly rebuking him for making Bad Breaks. When
                        he bought Striped Shirts of the Georgia Minstrel Pattern she told him that
                        he had the Sartorial Instincts of a Crap-Shooter. She asked him why he wore
                        his Hat on one side of his Head, just like a Common Rough. She toasted him
                        on both sides.
                    It seemed to him that he had made more Errors and fewer Hits than any Player
                        in  the Matrimonial League. His Percentage was
                        about .023.
                    But this same Mrs. A., when she talked to her Friends, said that although
                        Will might be Thoughtless now and then, the same as all Men, he had a Heart
                        too Big for his Body and one of the Sweetest Natures that ever came down the
                        Pike. She said that if other Men were as reliable as her Will there would be
                        no demand for Private Detective Agencies. She said that Will had a
                        Disposition that it was a Comfort to tie to, and it was a Great Blessing for
                        any Woman with Nerves to be anchored to a Steady Man who never flew off the
                        Handle. She said that she was glad of the Chance to play Clinging Vine to
                        his Sturdy Oak, and she didn't care who knew it. When Mrs. A. fell to
                        Cracking Up her Husband she talked like a Press Agent.
                    Mrs. B. was Different. When she and the 
                        Wage-Earner were by themselves she would Fondle him and make him Declare
                        that he still Loved her, whether it came Natural or not. She would hold him
                        by the Hand and call him her Handsome Boy.
                    An Hour later, while talking Confidentially with a roomful of Women, she
                        would say that she had a Secret Sorrow. She said her Husband lacked Soul and
                        Feeling and Imagination, and a few other Items.
                    Her Wings and His Wings were not Mates. When she wanted to Soar in the
                        Rarefied Realm of Sentiment and cut Didoes among the Clouds, he would haul
                        her back to the Ploughed Ground by some Allusion to Collar Buttons.
                    Although she had tried to grow Pinions on him and encourage him to do her
                        kind of Swoops, he preferred to be of the Earth Earthy. Consequently her
                        Life was as Empty  as a Bass Drum. In
                        attempting to get an Affinity she had made a Miscue and was up against it.
                    Under the Circumstances, she would have to make the best of a Bad Bargain and
                        hide her Grief from the World, unless some one should ask her about it.
                    It came about that one Evening Mr. and Mrs. A. went to call on Mr. and Mrs.
                        B. The two Men were in B.'s Room, silently inspecting some Old Bindings,
                        when Mrs. A. and Mrs. B. came into the Room adjoining and began to compare
                        Husbands, little recking that the Men could eavesdrop.
                    When A. heard Mrs. A. catalogue his Virtues and say that he was One in a
                        Thousand, he was surprised but Pleased. When B. heard Mrs. B. say that she
                        was condemned to a mere Existence with a Sordid Money-Grubber, he also was
                        Surprised but not pleased.
                    
                    The two Men walked softly out of the Room and went for their Hats.
                    "My Wife is stuck on me after all," said A. "In a Case of this Kind there is
                        only One Thing to be done. Come with me to the Club and I will open a Keg of
                        Nails."
                    "I am with you," said B., very gloomily. "I must Drown my Sorrow."
                    So they went on a Toot of the High-Lonesome Variety.
                    MORAL: Anything for an Excuse.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Open Champion The Veranda Fixture and the Once-a-Weeker
                        from Town
                    THE so-called Guests at a Summer Hotel put in most of their time changing
                        Clothes and inquiring for Mail. Grand View was the Name of the Hotel
                        because, by climbing to the Roof, you could see the County Seat.
                    On the Table could be found everything that the City Market had afforded
                        three days previously.
                    The Princess who waited on the Table had agreed to bring Food from the
                        Kitchen, but she had not agreed to meet any of the Guests,  socially, as it were, so every one had to be
                        Careful.
                    The Manager had arranged for the Mosquitoes to keep away, but the Mosquitoes
                        broke the Contract.
                    Still, the Hotel was not altogether a Polish. The Stationery was Great. For
                        Six Days in the Week there was a Man-Famine. To be sure, there was a Clerk
                        with a Shirt Waist who worked along the Verandas and chatted about the
                        Weather so as to keep People from discussing the Table and the Service.
                        After he had conversed for about 15 Minutes he would burn low and threaten
                        to go out.
                    But on Saturday when the Bus came up from the Station loaded down with the
                        Boys who were expected to sign the ChecksOh, then there was Joy indeed!
                        Everybody was glad to welcome the Bread-Winners. Each would have on her most
                        scrumptious Toggery  and the Turquoise Brooch,
                        and she would have out her little four-inch Lace Handkerchief, all ready to
                        wave at Him. All the Married Couples would Clinch at the Hotel Steps, and
                        those who didn't have the Right would postpone it for a while.
                    Among the Men who came out on the Saturday Special was a Bachelor named
                        Albert. Albert knew two Girls at the Hotel, and he didn't care who saw him
                        with either one. Albert was Susceptible. He had a Cool Head for Business and
                        in his calmer Moments he would decide to scratch Matrimony until he could
                        show a Hundred Thousand. But when he was up at Grand View and found himself
                        in a secluded corner of the Veranda with either Susie or Grace and the
                        Crescent Moon would be playing Hide-and-Seek among the Oak Branches and
                        somebody out in a Row-Boat plunking a Mandolin and the Night Bird calling
                             to a Companion that had broken the Date
                        then Albert would get Reckless and not care what became of him.
                    Susie and Grace were not alike in any Particular.
                    Susie was ever so Athletic. She went around bare-headed all Summer so as to
                        get a Coat of Tan. Usually she had her Sleeves rolled up to display a
                        Fore-Arm that reminded one of Terry McGovern. She wore a Short Skirt and
                        flat-bottomed Shoes. It was a positive Pleasure to see her bounce up into
                        the Air and lam a Tennis Ball. She was a dandy Whip and she had won a Cup
                        over an 18-hole Course. Susie could take care of herself at any Point along
                        the Road. If any one had told her she was a Weaker Vessel, she wouldn't have
                        believed it.
                    Grace was quite the Antithesis. She was a reposeful Creature who kept out of
                        the Sun  and wore filmy white Materials. She
                        usually had herself squidged up to about 21 inches, with the Straight Line
                        in front, the same as you see on the Fashion Page. She wore French Heels all
                        Summer, and whenever she saw a Cow she squealed and caught hold of the
                        nearest Man.
                    Grace once tried to hit a Golf Ball because it seemed to be the Thing. She
                        pecked at it a couple of times and sent it about 18 inches, and then she
                        felt something Give and returned to the Veranda.
                    Every time she ventured out she wore a three-foot Hat covered with Battenberg
                        and carried a Parasol so as to protect the Complexion. She never was keen
                        for Physical Culture, but preferred to get herself tucked in just right and
                        then sit and read something by Booth Tarkington. She had a slow, languorous
                        Walk, leaning forward from the Hips. If you 
                        did n't know, you might think she had Casters under her. The other Girls
                        rapped her for being Affected, but then she was n't doing it for their
                        Benefit. When she executed the Glide into the Dining Room, the Men would
                        tell one another to Pipe the Tall One with the Poor Shape.
                    As already intimated, these were the two that had Albert on the Guessing
                        Block. It kept him busy looking after both, but he knew the advantages of a
                        healthy Competition. A Girl always throws herself rather more earnestly if
                        she thinks some other Maiden is trying to sew Buttons on her. So Albert had
                        a lot of Attention paid to him every time he came out.
                    As the Summer Weeks slipped by, it became evident that Grace's Work on the
                        Veranda was more effective than Susie's violent Efforts in the Field. One
                        Saturday Night Al  bert brought out a Ring and
                        forced Grace to wear it. Next Day there was an awful Buzzing. A Majority of
                        the Wise Ones had picked Susie as the logical First Choice.
                    It happened that an Intimate Friend asked Albert if he had not got Twisted
                        and given the Ring to the wrong one.
                    "It is generally conceded," said the Friend, "that Susie is the most Superior
                        Thing that puts up at and with the Hotel."
                    "Superior is the Word," responded Albert. "As a Type of the New Kind she is
                        the Best Ever, and that is why I can't keep up with her. Think of a large
                        Man who wants to retain his Self-Respect going out on the Links and getting
                        waxed good and hard by a Child just budding into Womanhood. She can hit the
                        Ball right in the Eye every Clip and send it to the Green in about 2, while
                        I worry it off into the Bunch Grass and beat it until it  looks as if some one had been chewing it. For
                        six Days in the week and 52 Weeks in the Year I get round-shouldered talking
                        through a 'Phone and hanging over a Desk. When I do put on my Flannels and
                        rush to the Country, I am not prepared to enter the Lists with the seasoned
                        Lady Champion. Naturally, I do not care to get alongside of her and invite
                        Comparison. However, I wish to say that Susie is a Swell Girl and he who
                        Marries her will always Respect her. If he does n't, he had better take to
                        the Fire-Escape. The Trouble is that when Susie and I are together, I am
                        with her and not she with me. She takes me to Places. As soon as I realized
                        that I was a Candidate for Satchel-Carrier I began to slow up on Susie.
                    "Now, Grace is different. She clings to you and wants Advice. It's all up to
                        you. You don't have to lean back and look up at her.  She does n't pity you because you Foozle or take you in Hand
                        as if you were a Boy. I have a Feeling that if I married Susie I would be
                        put into the Nine-Hole and kept there forever. I am proud to know such a
                        Woman, and every time she plays a Match I will be on hand to Pull for her,
                        but when it comes to the Practice of Stuckology on the dim Veranda and then
                        a Clasp of the yielding form, I pass up the Party with the Iron Muscles.
                        When a Lady is trained so hard that the Form refuses to Yield, what's the
                        use? There's nothing to it. Then there is always the horrible Fear that if
                        you do anything to Vex her, she may pick you up and throw you into a Rose
                        Bush. It's pretty hard to love a Woman and be afraid of her at the same
                        time. No dainty Sandow for little Albert, the Office Slave! For me the
                        simple, sinuous, old-fashioned Variety."
                    
                    So he married Grace and Susie married a little Chap who wore Specs. He is now
                        acting as Caddie for her.
                    MORAL: The Gymnasium Girl does not always have the strongest
                            Pull.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Cousin from Down East Who Had His Pick of the Village
                        Lilacs
                    THERE was once a woman with a Mayflower Ancestry who had a wonderful Cousin
                        named Adelbert. This Woman used to keep Adelbert's Photo propped up on the
                        Baby Grand and she touted him strong to all the Girls. The Cousin never had
                        been out to this Town, but his Paper was up and the Female
                        Relative had done a lot of Advance Work.
                    Adelbert was almost as Sweet and Manly as an Anthony Hope Hero. He had
                        Property in his own Name, and was Bright.
                    About the time that Cherries were ripe the 
                        Word came up with many a Rumble and Roar that Cousin Adelbert was riding
                        hither on the Limited. Then there was a Hurrying to and fro. Pale Faces grew
                        paler yet and every Belle was trying to select the Creation that would make
                        a Ten-Strike with brilliant Adelbert, late from the Varsity.
                    In order to know why the Town should be having this Convulsion one ought to
                        hear something about the Town.
                    It was a White Settlement with a fair sprinkling of Indians. The Principal
                        Occupation in those Parts was going down on Railroad Street to see the
                        Trains pass through. Any one who knew the Conductor was looked up to. Most
                        of the Young Men thereabouts travelled in their Shirt Sleeves and wore blue
                        Elastics around their Arms and smoked Pest-house Cigarettes. They did the
                        Haw-Haw Laugh and thought well of their own Cute  Sayings. These Town Cut-Ups had only one Accomplishment and
                        that was to huddle up and do the Blend on one of these Mushy Ballads. When
                        they struck a Barber-Shop Minor they would Dwell until the unhappy Listener
                        felt his Toes curling. Some of the Girls who were fairly up to Snuff often
                        sighed that the Town was bad off for Society, and that was no Hungarian
                        Joke. It is a matter of Record that the Girls in such a Sub-Center of
                        Civilization are about seven times as Flip as what they have to choose from.
                        If they pair off with a lot of animated Prunes it is because they have to
                        utilize the Counterfeits or else Migrate.
                    Therefore it will be understood that the coming of Adelbert, who was the kind
                        Mrs. Burton Harrison tells about, was an Event of the First Magnitude. The
                        Girls began to brush up on their Reading so as to be primed  for Tall Conversation. They decided to choke
                        off on Slang, as it was known that all along the Atlantic Seaboard, where
                        Mr. Lindley Murray prevails and the Polysyllable is a Household Pet, any one
                        who spices his Conversation with Words not yet approved by the Dictionary
                        gets the Look of Pain or the Refrigerated Stare.
                    When Adelbert arrived his Cousin had Flowers in the Room. Within Twenty
                        Minutes after the Train whistled, everybody in Town knew how many Pieces of
                        Luggage he brought and what kind of a Suit he had on. He was given a ride in
                        the Town Hack. All the Girls put away their Gum and ordered new White
                        Gloves, for next day the Cream of Local Society was to Rally at a Lawn Party
                        in Honor of Adelbert, the Toniest of his Sex.
                    In going over the Invitation List there had 
                        been some Discussion as to whether or not they ought to include Noisy
                        Nettie. She was a willowy Seraphine, who took a great Photograph, but that
                        seemed to let her out. She had no Dignity or Repose, and the way she threw
                        herself at Men and dragged them away from the well-behaved Sisters had given
                        her a Bad Name. All the others in Town wondered what the Men saw in her.
                    It was argued that Noisy Nettie, if permitted to break in at the Lawn Party,
                        might be silly enough to get Fresh with the Distinguished Visitor and shoot
                        a lot of Trivialities at him and give him a False Impression of their Social
                        Life. She could win out the low-grade Article by sitting close and chirping
                        to him and giving him that Old One about his Hair matching his Eyes, but if
                        she ever tried that on a Bachelor of Arts whose Thoughts were keyed up to
                        the Higher Life, it might  queer the whole
                        Programme. He might feel Annoyed and begin to Pack Up.
                    However, in a Town of that size it is impossible to Discriminate. Adelbert's
                        Cousin was under Obligations to Nettie, and so Nettie received her Card, but
                        it was agreed that the Girls who knew how to Behave should form a Cordon
                        around the Honored Guest and prevent the feather-headed Flirt from getting hold of him and spoiling things.
                    The Lawn Party brought out all the best Bibs and Tuckers. Every Girl was
                        dressed within an inch of her Life and came through the Front Gate taking
                        Short Steps. In a little while they had the Young Gentleman surrounded and
                        were telling him how they doted on James Russell Lowell and could sit up all
                        night to read "Thanatopsis." They had selected a very fancy line of
                        Hot-Weather Topics.
                    Seven or eight had their Camp-Stools planted 
                        between Adelbert and Nettie, so as to protect him from her bold
                        Machinations. Adelbert was having Literary Chat passed to him in Hunks when
                        he happened to look across at Nettie. They had Met and that was all, but she
                        gave him the Wink, which meant: "I am on. You are up against it."
                    "Aha!" thought Adelbert, "something doing at last. I must look into this."
                    Presently the Company moved over toward the Croquet Grounds and Adelbert
                        managed to tear away and have a Word with Nettie.
                    "Gentle Stranger, let us shake this Bunch and go ride in the Swing," he said.
                    "Sure Thing," replied Nettie, and as she looked up at him she smiled faintly
                        and once more gave him the fluttering Eyelid.
                    "Something tells me that we are not going to talk about Books," said
                        Adelbert. "I did not come out West to find out about the Standard  Authors. I heard all the News about them
                        before I left Home. I am out here to Cut Loose and have a Good Time."
                    "Come and Romp with me," said Nettie. "I like your Style, but I'm a weeny bit
                        Afraid of you because you're such a Handsome Wretch and I've heard about you
                        College Boys."
                    Saying which she put her Chin on his shoulder and Goo-Gooed him and he lost
                        the Power of Speech. Strange to say, he did not go into the House and begin
                        to Pack Up. Along about that time he was thinking of having his Ticket
                        extended.
                    When the Proper Girls saw that Nettie, the Scandal-Maker, had succeeded in
                        isolating the Main Attraction there was a good deal of Whispering behind the
                        Fans, but Net and Del did not seem to mind, because they were in the Swing
                        having a few Whispers of their own.
                    
                    The Lawn Party was the heaviest June Frost ever known in that part of the
                        State. He who had been bawled out for two years as the most refined,
                        cultivated and scholarly Youth east or west of the Alleghanies turned out to
                        be the same as all the others. He passed up Miss Prim and went straight for
                        the sassy Good-Looker.
                    After that first day it was a Moral Certainty that Nettie had him right. The
                        other Girls did not get so much as a look-in on the Capital Prize. Every two
                        hours he put on a different Rig and went up to Nettie's House to permit her
                        to hold him by the Arm and tell him how well his Clothes became him. The
                        other Girls peered out from behind the Curtains and spoke of him as a Softy
                        and they began to tell around that he didn't have so much Property, and
                        besides it was Mortgaged up to the Hilt.
                    Adelbert's Cousin tried to pry him away  from
                        Nettie by telling him that she was superficial, but the Advice of a Relative
                        never carries any weight in the Case of a genuine Love Affair.
                    When Adelbert returned home he had fourteen Panel Photographs of Noisy
                        Nettie, his Heart's Delight, and she was going around Town with one Hand up
                        in the Air so that every one could see her Solitaire.
                    MORAL: Never talk Shop to a Man when he is on his Vacation.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Horse Maniac & What Caused the Filing of the Suit
                    THERE was once a Man who owned a Family Nag named Dolly that went flat-footed
                        and kept her Nose on the Ground. She was good for All Day, but she had the
                        Gait of a Side-Wheeler and no Style whatever. Other Drivers would come up
                        behind with their snorting High-Steppers that kept Head up and Tail over the
                        Dash-Board and they would go around Mr. Man and his dun Pelter as if the
                        latter had been hitched.
                    The Man did not relish the Idea of taking all the Dust on the Road, so he
                        sold Dolly and  bought a tall, rangy Gelding
                        with an Eagle Eye and an uneasy desire to climb a Tree. He was out of
                        Paprika by Cayenne and had a Number in the Book. The Owner called him
                        Caloric and had the Name put on the Box Stall. He bought a Runabout with
                        Cushion Tires and a Curb Bit and a new Set of tancolored Harness.
                    Then he began to hunt for Trouble. It required about three Hired Men to start
                        him away for a Drivetwo to keep Caloric on the Ground and another to open
                        the Gate. When the Word was given there would be a low, rushing Sound and
                        something would zip up the Street in a Cloud of Dust. Dogs would bark and
                        Children would fall off the Fence.
                    When Caloric struck the Speedway he made the other Roadsters look as if they
                        were Oxen. The proud Owner would come  home
                        all Splashed and with his Pockets full of Gravel.
                    All the rest of that day he would stand around and Blow about what he had
                        done to them. Sometimes he chewed a Straw and gave weighty Opinions on
                        Knee-Action and Reach. He began to wear a striped Shirt with a Whip for a
                        Scarf Pin and he had a studded Horse Shoe for a Watch Charm. He cut down
                        Household Expenses in order to buy a Stop Watch. Also, he took down the Fish
                        and Game Painting in the Dining Room and he put up a Picture of Caloric
                        standing in a foxy Attitude looking over a Fence. The Family had Horse for
                        Breakfast, Horse for Luncheon and Horse for Dinner. The only Rest they had
                        was when Father went out on the pumpkin-vine Circuit with Caloric to pull
                        down some of the $30 Purses. At times he made almost enough to pay for Feed.
                    
                    One Day the local Banker brought in a bay Filly from the Blue Grass Country
                        and began to make his Boasts. A Match was arranged and in three out of five
                        Heats at the Driving Park another World-Beater did the Flicker. Caloric
                        finished a sad Second, with Daylight in between, although he came under the
                        Wire in a Drive.
                    That Night the Box Stall was festooned with Crape. The Owner's Wife made the
                        Children hush and go to Bed early because Papa was sitting in the Front Room
                        with wide, staring Eyes, a Picture of Grief. She went in and touched him up
                        and asked him if he had got enough of the Horse Game. If so, would he begin
                        to pay a little Attention to his Family?
                    He said he was going to try a Snaffle Bit and a Pair of Blinders and some
                        Hobbles. He said Caloric would have won, only he had  a Sore Toe and got a Bum Start and was crowded into the Soft
                        Footing.
                    Next Day he engaged a Trainer with an overhanging Mustache and a peaked Cap
                        who subsisted on Navy Plug. This Genius took charge of Caloric and put
                        enough Rigging on him to fit out Shamrock II. The Owner was up at Sunrise to
                        see Caloric worked out and hold the Watch on him. The Family had evening
                        Readings from the Stud Book and the Man began to think that his wife was
                        Slow because she did not know the Time made by Cresceus and Little Boy.
                    When she filed her Bill for Divorce she alleged that a Horse had come between
                        them.
                    MORAL: The Ambition to pass everything on the Boulevard does not
                            jibe with a quiet Home Life and an every-day Salary.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Household Comedian & The Lady Shopper's
                        Unexpected Come Back
                    A HUSBAND worked up many Grinds on the Better Half. For example, he thought
                        it was great Sport to tell how she would do a Sheridan's Ride to a
                        Department Store, just as if she was going to sweep the Shelves, and after
                        she got there she would have Tracy, the Blond, show her all the Spring
                        Importations, after which she would buy a Dimity for 9 cents and about a
                        Nickel's worth of Veiling and have them delivered on a Rush Order. She was a
                        regular Hawk on spotting Bargain Sales, and the Monologue Artist that lived
                             with her used to tell his Friends that
                        she would claw her way into a Jam of Women and scrap like an Amazon to
                        capture one of the marked-down Remnants.
                    The Husband lectured her about chasing around from Store to Store, annoying
                        the Salesmen, blocking up the Aisles, pawing all kinds of Expensive
                        Materials and criticizing the Merchandise, finally ducking away without even
                        showing the Color of her Money. He said a Woman would take one of these
                        undersized Valises containing a Powder Puff, a Chew of Gum, a
                        Glove-Fastener, and just enough Car-Fare to land her back Home again, and
                        she would go out and do more Jimming and Four-Flushing than a Man would do
                        if he was going to buy a House and Lot. He said there was no need of giving
                        a Parade and making a lot of Grand-Stand Plays every time one went out to
                        purchase a few Necessities of  Life. He said
                        that on a Pleasant Day a Gang of Women could throw out more Flounces and
                        stop more Cars and use up more Floor Walkers for the Amount of Coin they put
                        into Circulation than any one he ever saw.
                    One Day in the early Summer he came home ahead of his Wife. He always claimed
                        that when a Woman went out on a Shopping Spree she made it a Point to loaf
                        Down Town until about 5.30 so that she could elbow into the Evening Rush and
                        compel some holloweyed Man to clutch a Strap all the way home.
                    When she appeared it was evident that she had been gallivanting through the
                        Scrimmage. Her Sky-Piece had a List to the Starboard, her Frizzes had
                        straightened out on her and the Belt Buckle was scrouged around until it had
                        her facing sideways. Here was a Grand Opening for the Humorous Husband, so
                        he fell back on his Stock Joke.
                    
                    "And what has little Angel-Face been running down to-day?" he asked. "Did
                        Sunshine buy a Paper of Pins or a nice Eleven Cent Coil of Black Braid?"
                    "Nit!" she replied, stopping short and turning the Mackerel Eye on him. "You
                        have jolted me so often that I have turned over a New Leaf. I knew how you
                        hated to have me price Goods and then push them back, so today nothing went
                        back. I have bought six Embroidered Shirt-Waists, a Lace Parasol, 22 Yards
                        of Silkalorum that looks like Silk and wears better, and a lot of Articles
                        that you wouldn't know what they were if I told you the Names. Your little
                        Bird didn't make any Water-Haul to-day, I can promise you that, and if you
                        think I am stringing you, wait until you get the Statement. I ran it up to
                        an even Hundred Samoleons so that you would not have to bother with any
                        Small Change."
                    
                    She waited for him to Rally but he gave no sign of returning to the Scratch,
                        so she sought her own Room, leaving him all Flattened Out.
                    MORAL: So long as she is Happy, don't compel her to spend more
                            Money.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Hungry Man from Bird Center And the Trans-Atlantic Touch
                    IN one of the Regular Stops on a Spur Line of a Western Road, there lived a
                        Man who wanted to see Europe. Somebody had told him that Travelling broadens
                        one. He had six weeks to spare, so he thought he would hustle over and get
                        Broadened about $500 worth.
                    This would-be Marco Polo wanted to hie over and look in Pity on the decaying
                        Monarchies of the Effete East and compare them with Bird Center. He was
                        afraid that if he waited a couple of Seasons they would be so  Far Along in the Process of Decay that they
                        would not be Fit to look at.
                    He was a Coal-Dealer in Bird Center, but he sighed for further Honors. He
                        wanted to be pointed out as the Fellow who had took in the Old Country.
                        There was one Woman in Bird Center who had skipped over and back again
                        before Europe knew anything about it. This Record gave her a goshawful
                        Standing in the Chautauqua. She had put in two days in dear old Rome. When
                        the Circle began to speak of Art, she had all the other Girls spiked to the
                        Tan Board.
                    The Coal-Dealer had his Name stencilled on a low-browed Steamer Trunk. Also
                        he secured a Passport which identified him as a Male American and requested
                        Foreign Powers to overlook all Breaks, as he was from Bird Center.
                    His Friends gave him a Farewell Dinner.  When
                        he boarded the Train, the entire Population was down to see him Off. His
                        Neighbors pounded him on the Back and gave him a box of Lottie Lees to smoke
                        on the Trip, because they had heard tell that it was impossible to get a
                        Good Segar away from Home. They told him to give their Best to Ed, meaning
                        his Gracious Majesty, and to ask Kaiser Bill to take one on them, and to
                        tell the Pope howdy. In fact, his Departure was made a regular Festival of
                        home-grown Humor, and he felt that he was something of a Public Character.
                    But when he boarded the Liner and came up against the Sea-Dog who had been
                        across 47 times and liked Heavy Weather and never had been Sick, he shrank
                        considerably. His Plans for doing Great Britain and the whole Continent in
                        one Month, did not seem to excite any burning Interest.
                    
                    The Voyage was not up to his large Expectations. A majority of the Passengers
                        lay about in a Comatose Condition, rolled up in loud Rugs. The others did
                        numerous Laps around and around the Deck, like the Participants in a Six-Day
                        Match, and spoke to no one. The Coal-Dealer spent most of his Time in
                        somebody else's Steamer Chair, sucking a Lemon and trying to get his Mind
                        off of the Rolling Motion.
                    In due time he landed on Albion's Shore, as he called it in writing to the
                        Home Paper. He had read all about the Anglo-Saxon Alliance, and the Friendly
                        Feeling for Americans and Blood being thicker than Water. He expected the
                        Duke of Newcastle-on-Tyne to be down at the Dock with a Union Jack in one
                        Hand, a Starry Banner in the other and an Invitation to Marlborough House
                        held in his Teeth. But the Reception Committee failed  to Materialize. The Man from Bird Center rode up to London in
                        a small Compartment with several of our British Cousins. He tried to be
                        Sociable and dab a little more Cement on the Anglo-Saxon Alliance, but they
                        looked out at the Landscape and did not seem inclined to mix up with one who
                        had not been Presented. By the time the Train rumbled in among the
                        Chimney-Pots, they had him Frozen as stiff as a Board.
                    After he had been on the Other Side for about a Week, he learned that if he
                        wanted to Talk to any one, he could go out and employ a Guide.
                    Still, there were some who recognized the Blood Relation, and they bled him.
                        The Cabbies charged him three times the regular Tariff for a Four-Wheeler.
                        He discovered that a Nasal Accent was Expensive. Somehow, every one seemed
                        to know that he was one of those  eccentric
                        Yankees. He was regarded as a Millionaire just because he came from America
                        and talked in a Loud Tone. He did not like to correct this flattering
                        Impression and explain that he was merely a Bounder from Bird Center who
                        wanted to go it Cheap. So he Let Go rather freely, and the first thing he
                        knew his Letter of Credit began to look lop-sided.
                    He went against the London Tailor and bought a lot of strange Garb with
                        Cushions in the Shoulders. The Garments did not fit him, but were said to be
                        Durable. The Tailor said he couldn't Wear them Out, and after he returned
                        Home, he found that he did not dare to.
                    After remaining in London for a Week and getting fairly well acquainted with
                        a Waiter, he struck out for the Continent, where they had been saving up all
                        their Bad Money to  give to him. He did not
                        know how to make change. In the Excitement of Travel, he forgot his 4 French
                        Sentences and became so Locoed that they did what they pleased to him. He
                        was from the U. S. A., where the Currency grows on Bushes, and they felt at
                        Liberty to go through him.
                    He was so busy scrapping over Bills, looking up Time-Tables, paying Excess
                        Baggage and sending Illustrated Postal Cards back to Bird Center, telling
                        what a Grand Time he was having, that he had very little Time for Sights.
                        Still, he managed to look into 400 Cathedrals that seemed just alike and had
                        the same damp Odor and he stood in front of several thousand faded
                        Masterpieces and let on to Admire them. After a while all Scenery looked
                        alike to him and when a Guide tried to pull him into a Gallery he resisted.
                    Wherever he stopped, a smiling Hotel  Manager
                        gave him the Sleeve across the Wind-Pipe.
                    After a couple of weeks though, he got used to it and would extend his Neck
                        and take it in the Jugular without a Murmur.
                    He began to count the Days until he would see Bird Center again. He wanted to
                        be back where the Teams were hitched around the Court House Square and no
                        Building was more than 15 years old and everybody said "Hello, Bill!"
                    In addition to being Home-Sick, he was Hungry. He could not get his Steak and
                        Onions. At the sad Round-Up known as the Tabble Dote, they passed him a lot
                        of Trimmings that he could neither Pronounce nor Assimilate. He sat in the
                        Forum at Rome and longed for Rhubarb Pie. As he floated on the Grand Canal
                        in Venice, he realized that Green Corn was coming into the Market  back in Bird Center, and the Blow nearly
                        threw him out of the Gondola. He stood in the Majestic Presence of Mont
                        Blanc and made an Open Offer of Seven Dollars for a Cup of Mother's Coffee
                        without any daggoned Chicory in it.
                    It was a joyous Day when the Coal-Dealer climbed into a Six-Day Boat headed
                        for Sandy Hook. He had used the Cable to get Two Hundred over and above the
                        Letter. He didn't know whether or not his Trip had Broadened him, but he
                        knew it had left him Short.
                    He realized that when he landed in New York, he would be Searched as a
                        Smuggler, and then Sand-Bagged by a Hackman, but he was ready to stand for
                        anything that wasn't done in a Foreign Language.
                    "The Latin Races may be on the Decline, but they didn't refuse to take All of
                        Mine," said the Coal-Dealer, as he looked back across  the vasty Deep. "The only way I can get Revenge is to go back
                        to Bird Center and talk Europe for the next 10 Years."
                    MORAL: The Time to enjoy a European Trip is about Three Weeks
                            after Unpacking.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Brotherhood of States & The Wife Who Was
                        Responsible for the Jubilee
                    HUBBY had promised to be home early for Dinner. He had one Foot on the Step
                        of the Street-Car when he happened to remember that his Wife had told him to
                        bring home a Basket of Gem Melons, because the Grocer did not keep the Kind
                        she liked.
                    Hubby objected to playing Pack-Pony on the Streets, but he knew there would
                        be a catch-as-catch-can Talking Match if he failed to show up with those
                        Melons, so he turned reluctantly and allowed the Car to go its Way.
                    
                    He sought a Delicatessen Store and bought a 5-pound Basket of undersized
                        Canteloupes that looked as if they were Chapped. He started back to take the
                        next Car, when he ran plump into an Old Friend from Memphis. The
                        Acquaintance from the South said it was the Custom in his part of the
                        Country when two Gentlemen met after a long Separation to pour a small
                        Libation on the Altar of Friendship.
                    "You will excuse me if I don't refuse," said Hubby, and the two began to look
                        around for a Place with Potted Ferns in the Window.
                    As they laid their Breast-Bones against the metallic Hand-Rail, Hubby saw a
                        Vision of a Lady with Auburn Hair. She was watching the Cars unload at the
                        Corner. There was what you might term a Baleful Gleam in her Eye, and she
                        was beginning to tap the Floor  with one
                        Tootsie. Those who understand the Matrimonial Code know that when a Lady
                        with Zaza Tresses begins to telegraph with one Foot, then is the Time to
                        climb a Tree. Hubby did not mention the Vision to his Friend from Memphis.
                        He did not believe in telling his Troubles to an innocent Third Party.
                    The Man from Memphis ordered two Juleps. The Julep is built in a tall Vase.
                        It consists of a leafy Roof Garden superimposed on a Display of Small Fruit,
                        the whole underlaid with a Nansen Ice-Floe. Hubby had to take off his Hat in
                        order to crawl through the Mint and get to the Beverage. As he looked at the
                        fading Sunlight through the Kaleidoscope of Prismatic Flashes and Blushing
                        Cherries, the Picture of Mabel with her Face against the Pane faded away and
                        he beheld 10,000 stareyed Sirens in White, all singing "Dixie." He  felt a great Love for the Southland welling
                        up in his Heart.
                    So he told the Barkeep to put the Basket of Melons on the Ice and get busy
                        with two more of the same.
                    He took Memphis by the Hand and said that Mason and Dixon's Line was only a
                        Memory. He wished to propose a Toastto Sunny Tennessee, brightest Gem in the
                        Diadem of States, the Home of Fair Women and Brave Men.
                    After the second Julep he told the Barkeep to take the Melons out and feed
                        them to the Cat and to order up a Carriage with two Drivers. On Second
                        Thought he decided to take the Melons along to throw at the Arc Lights in
                        order to prove that the North and the South were One and Indivisible.
                    Hubby arrived home at 2 A.M. carrying the Handle of the Basket. When she
                        opened up  on him, he proved to her that he
                        would have been there at 6.15 if she had not asked him to purchase all those
                        Supplies.
                    MORAL: Usually the Woman is to Blame.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Good Fairy of the Eighth Ward and the Dollar Excursion of
                        the Steam-Fitters
                    MONNYHAN lived right up in the City where they try to put two Houses on one
                        Lot.
                    The Name of the Thoroughfare was Kidd Street. It was in the Eighth Ward, just
                        off Cinders avenue. There was a swell View of the Gas House and the
                        Residents might have seen the Bottling Works and the Dump if it hadn't been
                        for the Foundries in between.
                    Mr. Monnyhan worked in a Blast Furnace where they did not provide Electric
                        Fans for the Help. When Summer came he never had  to worry about his Polo Pony, and the Problem of getting a
                        good Butler for the Country House did not give him a moment's Uneasiness.
                        Mr. Monnyhan was one of the Plain People. He wiped his Mouth on the Back of
                        his Hand, and when he saw a Man in Duck Trousers he had Murder in his Heart.
                    Shortly after the Whistle blew, Mr. Monnyhan would show up in Kidd Street,
                        dragging one Foot after the other, the Prosperity Dinner Pail in one horny
                        Mitt and his Coat over his Arm. He would collapse on the Step with a Moan of
                        Relief. Then he would call for his Evening Paper and read about Summer
                        Styles for Well-Dressed Men.
                    After Supper he and the other Toilers along the Row would come out to the
                        Front Stoops and peel off until they were comfortable, no matter what the
                            Ladies' Home Journal said. The Children playing in the
                        Street wore Rational  Costumes. Sometimes a
                        Foreigner came along and played on a Street Piano. The German at the Corner
                        did a great Bucket Trade. After Mr. Monnyhan and his Neighbors had Rolled
                        the Rock and Chased the Duck and Hurried the Can for several Pints of the
                        White Suds they would feel almost as well off as the Rich.
                    Mrs. Monnyhan had a Grudge against Kidd Street. She was full of pipey
                        Ambitions that did not fit in with Papa's Saturday Night Envelope. When she
                        read about some New York Family going away on a Yacht and taking $10,000
                        worth of Ice along, she would feel Envious. The Monnyhans got most of their
                        Ice in the Winter Time. Sometimes she would look out at the two lonesome
                        Trees in Kidd Street and wish that her Husband was an unpopular Stock-Jobber
                        instead of an honest Workingman. Mrs. Monnyhan loved to  read about who was Entertaining at Newport and what to wear at
                        the Races. She used to figure out what kind of speckled Horses she would
                        drive to her Private Hack, if she should go out in the Alley some day and
                        pick up a Million Dollar Bill. She spent a lot of Money in this way.
                    Mr. Monnyhan was a Home Body. He asked nothing better than an Al Fresco
                        Evening on the Stoop, puffing his little Henry Clay and now and then burying
                        his Face in the Growler.
                    But Mrs. Monnyhan had the Travel Microbe in her System. She wanted to take a
                        Trip into the Country. Her Husband advised her to go over to the Park if she
                        wanted to see some Grass, but she said that a real Outing meant at least 40
                        Miles on the Steam Cars. And she kept nagging Monnyhan.
                    One night the Good Fairy of the Eighth  Ward
                        came and perched on the Instalment Bedstead and spoke to Monnyhan as
                        follows: "Your Side-Partner will never be happy until she gets that Ride to
                        the Country. Next Sunday the Steam-Fitters' Protective Association gives a
                        Dollar Excursion. I think it will help some if you give her enough
                        Recuperation in one Day to last her all Summer."
                    Mr. Monnyhan acted on the Tip. His Wife was tickled to know that they were
                        going. She loaded a Basket with Lunch and laid out her best Things.
                    On Sunday Morning the Monnyhans put on their heavy Clothing and started for
                        the Station. The Sun had got an Early Start. It was a hot, gummy Dayjust the
                        kind for an Excursion.
                    On the Railway Platform stood about One Thousand in their Sunday Best, slowly
                        Cooking. The Monnyhans worked their way into 
                        the Pack. Every Person in that Crowd seemed to be radiating Heat like a
                        Parlor Stove.
                    It was a sure-enough Sunday Bunch. There was Hiney Blotz with the Badge and
                        the Pale Cigar. He was putting Finger Marks on the dove-colored Basque of
                        Jimpsy, the pale Mechanic of the Commercial Hotel. Also there was Mike the
                        Bite, with his regular Rollopo-zarium, who was Calcimined to a creamy white
                        and chewing Pepsin Gum in two-four Time. And the Queen with the Satin
                        Slippers and the gold Bridge-Work in her Teeth. Was she on hand with
                        Clarence and his Patent Leathers?
                    Mrs. Monnyhan was looking for Society and she got her Dollar's Worth right on
                        the Jump.
                    She was right next to a Stout Lady in white, who carried a Small Child,
                        probably five weeks old. A very young Baby that is  broken out with the Heat loves to get away on Sunday and have
                        a Time with the Steam-Fitters. On the other side was a Gay Dog with a Red
                        Handkerchief around his Neck and a Japanese Fan in his upper Coat Pocket. No
                        Sunday Excursion is complete without this Boy.
                    The Cars had been standing in the Yards since 4.30, soaking up Heat. There
                        were not enough Seats for all, so Mr. Monnyhan put the two Children in the
                        Coal-Box, while he and the Pleasure-Seeker sat behind a Couple that talked
                        Baby Talk. The Woman had artificial Cherries on her Hat and the Man smelled
                        of Musk. Then somebody began to sing "A Bird in a Gilded Cage," and others
                        started in to open up Lunch and throw Egg-Shells on the Floor. The Humorist
                        who puts his Head out of the Window to Josh those at the different Stops was
                        present in Numbers. Also  the rollicking Youth
                        who keeps tramping up and down the Aisles.
                    The Train ran for 6 Miles and then backed into a Siding at a Gravel Pit and
                        waited for a Freight. The Excursion Train waits for Everything.
                    Mrs. Monnyhan had a Clinker in her Eye and Mr. Monnyhan's Collar was done
                        for, so he thought it was about time to say something. He said he was glad
                        he wasn't back at Home with his Coat and Vest off and a Dish of Hops in
                        front of him. He thought that would be Miserable. Mrs. Monnyhan was still
                        Game. She told him to wait until they were in the Country.
                    Along about Noon the Train pulled up near a Tree and somebody said they had
                        arrived at the Grove. So they all piled out and stood around in the tall
                        Timothy, waiting for something to happen.
                    
                    Out in the Country if there is a Piece of Ground that cannot be farmed, they
                        call it a Picnic Park and let the Stock run in it. The Monnyhans found
                        themselves up against one of these bluff Grobes. There was not enough Shade
                        to go around. They had to take Turn About standing under the Tree. And if
                        you didn't like the Place, you had to stay just the same, until the Train
                        was ready to pull out.
                    The only Amusement was doing the Pivot Waltz with the Heads together. That is
                        no Entertainment for any one past twenty-eight, so the Monnyhans cut it out.
                    It was a long Day with nothing to see except the Track, the Rag-Weeds and a
                        lot of Spoons who held on to one another for fear of losing a Good Thing.
                    The Train was seven hours in getting back, and by that time the Monnyhans
                        were a  Sight. It would not have been a
                        regular Sunday Excursion if some Gentleman had not smashed another Gentleman
                        for insulting his Lady. Mrs. Monnyhan fainted and dropped her Wild Flowers,
                        and by the time she came to they were all over the Shop, knee-deep.
                    Late at Night the Monnyhans arrived at Kidd Street. To Mrs. Monnyhan those
                        two dusty Trees were a Bower of Eden. She had taken enough Vacation to do
                        her for quite a Spell. She wanted to get into the House and make a few Quick
                        Changes and take a Long Breath.
                    So when they were back on their own Door-Step where they could shed their
                        Garments and catch the Breeze from the Switch Yards, they realized that Kidd
                        Street was an earthly Paradise.
                    Now, when Mrs. Monnyhan needs Recreation  she
                        shakes a Nickel out of Willie's Bank and flags a Trolley.
                    MORAL: Be it ever so humble, there's no Place like Home when it
                            comes to Wearing what you like.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The All-Night Seance & The Limit That Ceased to Be
                    FOUR reputable Business Men sat down at the Green Baize to flirt with the
                        Goddess of Fortune for one Hour, no more, no less. The Married Men did not
                        want to go Home too early for fear that it would be too much of a Shock to
                        their Wives.
                    These four Good Fellows may be designated as Adams, Brown, Collins and Davis,
                        for fear the Children get hold of the Book. They were up in Adams' Room.
                        Some one remarked that it was the mere Shank of the Eveningjust the Fringe
                        of the Night, as it  wereand it seemed a Shame
                        to pull for Home while so many other and more attractive Resorts were still
                        open. So Adams brought out the necessary Tools and the four Comrades squared
                        away.
                    It was to be a Gentleman's Game. No one at the Table wanted to take Money out
                        of a Friend's Pocket. They put on an easy Limit of 10 Cents, so that no one
                        could win or lose enough to Hurt. They had to make it an Object in order to
                        keep their Blood in Circulation, but it was agreed that one fleeting Hour of
                        10-Cent Limit would not make or break any one. And it was positively
                        understood and agreed that when the Cuckoo Clock hooted for Eleven O'clock,
                        that was to be the Signal. Adams had been out the Night before with a Bad
                        Man from Council Bluffs, and he wanted to make up a few Hours of Slumber.
                        Brown had to figure on a Contract next Day, and he  needed Eight Hours so as to show up with a Clear Head. Collins
                        said he had a couple of Black Marks standing against him and if he did n't
                        get in by Midnight, he might lose his Latch-Key. Davis said he was glad they
                        were going to make it a Brief Session as the Electric Light hurt his Eyes.
                        It seemed that not one had more than an Hour to spare.
                    It was a beautiful Get-Away. All the Stacks were the same size, neatly built
                        up into Stand-Pipes of Red, White and Blue. The Cards riffled smoothly and
                        the Dove of Peace seemed to hover over the Round Table. Each Man lighted an
                        eight-inch Perfecto and got it slanted up so as to keep the Smoke out of his
                        Eyes. He was feeling Immense because he counted on pulling out about Five
                        Bones and buying a Hat with it.
                    Inasmuch as they were playing in Adams' Room and he was providing all the wet
                        and  dry Provisions, they felt at liberty to
                        jounce him. A Host is not supposed to act Peevish, no matter what they do to
                        him. So what they did to Adams was a Plenty. It was only a measly little
                        Child's Game with a Come In of Two call Five and a Blue Seed for the Outside
                        Bet, but when two of them got Adams in between them and started the
                        Whip-Saw, they left him with nothing but Whites. He died like an Outcast
                        with three Type-Writers clutched in his Salary Hook.
                    He touched up the Bone Yard in a low, injured Tone of Voice and they could
                        notice the Gloom curdling on his side of the Table. In a few Moments he
                        tried to Get Back by making it Expensive to Draw. Davis picked up two Cards
                        and filled a Straight and he lit on Mr. Bluffer all spraddled out. It was
                        about this time that Adams began to get Red around the Ears. He told them to
                        be careful  where they dropped their Ashes, as
                        the Rug they were sitting on was a genuine Bokhara and had stood him more
                        than Two Hundred. They asked him if he was Sore, and he said he was not, but
                        he hated to sit in with a Farmer who would hold up Three, open in the
                        Middle, and then Fill. Any one who would do that ought to be Arrested. Davis
                        remarked that their Host was an Imitation Sport who ought to be out playing
                        Mumblety-Peg or Croquet. Davis had a long Breastwork of Plush in front of
                        him and he was full of Conversation. He told Adams that if they injured the
                        Rug he would buy another.
                    In the meantime the Short Hand had crept up toward XI. Davis kept calling
                        Attention to the Fact that the Time was just about up. He wanted to get his
                        Velvet and Dig. The Electric Light was hurting his Eyes worse than ever.
                    
                    But when the Hour struck, Adams was just beginning to be keen for Trouble. He
                        told them to forget the Clock. He threw the Jonah Deck into the Grate, broke
                        a fresh Pack, walked around his Chair three times, took off his Coat and
                        gave Fair Warning that all Boys and Cripples must get back of the Ropes. He
                        rung in a new Rule that any one who bet less than 50 Cents would be
                        considered a Gazabe. He put in a Patent Corkscrew for a Buck and said it
                        called for a Jack Pot every time it came out with the Ante. He hoped that
                        all of the Old Ladies and the Safe Players would dust the Cracked Ice out of
                        their Laps and get Busy. He said if they tried hard they could get Action
                        for their Money on something less that Threes.
                    Of course, they had agreed to chop off at Eleven, but they could not play
                        Quitter on their Host while he was so deep in the Hole,  so they all came down to their Shirt Sleeves and got ready for
                        Rough Work. They began to Edge with the Colored Beans and Friendship ceased.
                        Adams had a Run of Luck and he crowded it. Every time he skun his First Set
                        and found it promising, he raised them out of their Chairs. It was a Half
                        Dollar per Throw and somebody was thrown every Deal. Before long he had them
                        Buying, and Brown had opened a Tab with the Bank.
                    Adams begun to hum a Popular Air, just to show that he could Gamble without
                        losing his Temper. He had All Kinds corded up in front of him and he was
                        exceeding Blithe. He said he was going to buy some nice Etchings for his
                        Room and put in an Ice-Box and have everything Right in case a few Friends
                        dropped in like this. Then he glanced up at the Clock and said that probably
                        they had better make it Midnight. At this the other  three let out a Roar that would have been a Credit to Niagara.
                        They said they were going to Hang On until they got Revenge. He explained
                        that somebody had to quit Loser and besides, they couldn't sit up all Night.
                        The Doctor had told him to get plenty of Sleep. They scoffed at him and told
                        him to get a Hot Brick and put his Feet on it.
                    Brown arose and removed his flowered Waistcoat, rolled up his Sleeves and
                        said they would let up on Fooling and begin in Earnest. They would play
                        nothing but Jacks and it would cost One Dollar to Associate. With that they
                        closed in and every Man was playing so near to his Shirt Bosom that he had
                        to back off to read his Hand. The Light Conversation had died away. It was
                        now a Case of getting the Heart's Blood. They talked in low, sick-room
                        Whispers and eyed one another stealthily. Each of the four wondered  if the Game was absolutely on the Square.
                    Along about 2 o'clock after the Luck had been see-sawing, Brown had four
                        Trays and refused to take Cards. Two Full Hands came out against him and
                        that was what led up to the Slaughter. When a Person stands Pat, it is the
                        crafty Supposition that he has a Flush or a Straight. To hold the Extra Card
                        as a Blind for Fours is justly regarded as an Act of Low Cunning. When the
                        Smoke and Dust cleared away, Brown had everything in sight and was beginning
                        to Yawn slightly and look at his Watch. The others were drawing on the Bank
                        and telling what they might have done if the Cards hadn't come just as they
                        did.
                    Adams had been Cleaned properly, and he was so Mad he was breathing through
                        his Nose. He produced his Bank-Book to show that he was Good for any Amount,
                        and then  he abolished the Limit and announced
                        that he was out for Gore and would show no Quarter.
                    Then the Game settled down to the Kind in which somebody lays $14 on a Pair
                        of Sevens and gets whooped $9 by some other Desperado holding Nines, and
                        nobody bats an Eyelash.
                    At 4 o'clock Brown, who was still intrenched behind his Earnings, suggested
                        that they play one Round of Jack Pots for Five Bucks and then settle up.
                        This was reluctantly agreed to. In this Grand Finale some tall Hands were
                        dealt and they didn't do a Thing to Brown. So he called for just one more
                        Round and everybody locked Horns and began all over again.
                    At 6 o'clock when the Hot Sunlight fell athwart the Table the Room resembled
                        a Roustabout Bar-Room. Four Haggard Beings, scantily Clad, sat at the Table
                        and weakly endeavored  to Bump one another.
                        Adams was out a Month's Salary and was Dead on his Feet. Brown had worked
                        like a Dog all night and had nothing to show for it except a Head and a
                        Debit of $3.50. Collins had most of the Chips, but he would have given a
                        Thousand to get out of going Home and facing Pet. Davis had been running the
                        Bank, and he never will know how he came out. He had two Envelopes covered
                        with Marks, and after the others Cashed In, he didn't have any Money with
                        which to redeem his own Checks. He asked what he had better do, and no one
                        answered. They had Troubles of their own.
                    After they left and Adams put his Head under the Faucet, he said he was going
                        to swear off on making his Room a Hang-Out for Sharks. And when they were
                        safely outside, they agreed that Men with Homes  ought to keep away from the Rounder Ele ment. And everybody said "Never
                        Again."
                    MORAL: Play Muggins, and then you will be glad to Quit at any
                            time.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Good People Who Rallied to the Support of the Church
                    ACONGREGATION needed Money for repairing the Church, so the Women got
                        together and decided to hold a Raspberry Festival. Sister Frisbie invited
                        them to come and Carouse on her Front Lawn. Some 22 Members of the Flock
                        flew out and bought a few Things to Wear, the Outlay for washable Finery
                        running to about $8 per Head.
                    Mr. Frisbie got $9 worth of Chinese Lanterns and strung them around. He
                        wanted to do the Thing up Brown so as to get a Puff in the Weekly. The Paper
                        came out and said  that the Frisbie Front Yard
                        with its Myriad Twinkling Lights was a Veritable Fairy-Land. That kind of a
                        Notice is worth $9 of anybody's Money.
                    Mr. Frisbie and three other Pillars of the Church devoted $7 worth of
                        valuable Time to unloading Tables and Camp-Stools.
                    The Women Folks ruined $14 worth of Complexion working in the hot Kitchen to
                        make Angel Food and Fig Cake.
                    On the Night of the Raspberry Orgy the Public trampled down $45 worth of
                        Shrubbery.
                    When it came time to check up the Linen and Silverware it was found that $17
                        worth of Spoons with Blue Thread tied around them had been lost in the
                        Shuffle.
                    The Drip from the Candles ruined $29 worth of Summer Suits and Percale
                        Shirt-Waists.
                    
                    Four Children gorged themselves and each was tied in a True Lover's Knot with
                        Cholera Morbus before another Sunrise. The Doctor Bills footed up $18.
                    After clearing the Wreck, paying the Drayman and settling for the Ice Cream
                        and Berries, it was discovered that the Church was $6.80 to the Good. So
                        everybody said it was a Grand Success.
                    MORAL: Anything to avoid dropping it in the Basket.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of How Grandma Shattered an Idol and Made It Easy for the
                        Children
                    ATHEORETICAL Parent was accustomed to jawing his Children. He hectored them
                        and found Fault.
                    He thought the Cherubim ought to sit up straight all Day and keep their Hands
                        folded.
                    Pa had an impaired Circulation and Fur on his Tongue and a kind of Janders
                        Complexion and therefore Life was a sad and serious Game to him. He wanted
                        the Children to take the same Gloomy View of the whole Demnition Grind. He
                        was in a Blue Funk most of the time and it was his earnest Desire that the
                             whole Universe should wear a Black Border
                        in order to be in Harmony with his own state of Melancholy.
                    So when he had nothing else to do, he fixed up restraining Rules for the
                        Kids. He told them they must not waller in the Grass or climb Trees or get
                        into Scraps. When he commanded them to keep out of Fights and Wrassles he
                        seemed to overlook the Fact that they were the immediate Descendants of a
                        rambustious Individual who always had two or three Law Suits on hand and
                        went about with a Chip on his Shoulder.
                    He came down on them like 1,000 of Brick if they failed to be Polite. He told
                        them to say "Yes, Ma'am" and "Thank You" and always show Respect for their
                        Elders, because that would be the only Chance that some of the Elders had to
                        have any Respect shown to them.
                    
                    He was a Stickler for Table Manners. It worried him if the Children failed to
                        get a graceful Grip on the Knife and Fork and he insisted that they add
                        "Please" whenever they shot in a Request for more Chow.
                    Furthermore, Pop leaned over from the Heights of his all-round Superiority
                        and talked down to the Offspring about Habits of Industry. It cut him to the
                        Quick to learn that they had played Hookey and scooted up the Alley when
                        Mama wanted them to run Errands. He said that in his younger Days he had
                        been a great Help to his Folks.
                    To hear him tell it, he had been a Model Youth. He always wound up a Lecture
                        by telling how he went to Sunday School and always had the Golden Text
                        cinched and captured the Prize for reeling off 200 verses of Scripture.
                    Sometimes, when the three Children realized 
                        what a Sweet Child their Male Parent had been, they felt ashamed and
                        discouraged, because they knew they never could Buck Up and duplicate his
                        juvenile Career. It was pretty hard to understand how and why such an Angel
                        had grown up to be a grumpy Kicker, but they had Daddy's Word for it that he
                        had been the original Fauntleroy and whatever he said went.
                    "When I was your Age," he would say to his trembling Flock, "I never wanted
                        to eat between Meals, and I used to Buckle down to my Lessons every Evening,
                        until Mother would take my School-Books and hide them to prevent me from
                        ruining my Eye-Sight. I never was Cruel to Dumb Animals; neither was I rude
                        to Little Girls."
                    This very remarkable Man had two Boys and one Girl. The oldest Child was a
                        Boy named Wallie. He was about 16 and running 
                        principally to Legs and Red Neckties. He was at the Awkward Age. His Voice
                        was changing and he had outgrown his Clothes and he wobbled and stepped on
                        himself when he when he walked. He went about humped over as though he had
                        been dried across a Barrel.
                    Wallie was passing through the Calf Period. He was a little too old to Spank,
                        and not quite old enough to heed the Voice of Reason. He put in a lot of
                        Time combing his Hair. It seemed to him about time to drop out of School,
                        because he certainly knew it all. He wrote Notes to Girls a few years older
                        than himself, and furthermore he had got away with his first Cigarette.
                        Luckily, Papa did not know. Papa was an end-to-end Smoker and burned up
                        about a dozen Black Cigars every Day, but it would have broken his Heart to
                        learn that any Child of his used Tobacco.  The
                        Old Gentleman was very rough on Wallie. He gave him the Gig at every
                        opportunity, for he had no sympathy with Puppy Love and he hated a Dude, and
                        he actually accused the boy of being Lazy. Papa had been such a Busy Bee all
                        his Life, he had no Patience with a shirking Drone.
                    About the time that this Extraordinary Person had his three Children cowed
                        and subdued, his Mother came on a Visit. The Children gave a glad Whoop when
                        Grandma loomed up at the Front Gate. Their own Mama usually played Second
                        Fiddle to Papa, but Grandma took Orders from no one. While she was at the
                        Helm, the Children had one long Picnic. She staked them to Spending Money
                        and she stood between them and many a Scolding.
                    She had been a stern and Spartan Mother with her own Children, but the
                        Grandchildren  could have anything they
                        wanted. They got on the Soft Side of the good Old Lady and anybody who was
                        Mean to them stood an elegant Chance of hearing something Drop.
                    For several Days after she arrived, the Czar of the Household continued to
                        publish Edicts and bark at Wallie and Carry on after the manner of all
                        Autocrats who are swollen with Pride and Power. Grandma held in as long as
                        she could and then one Day at the Dinner Table she veered around and gave
                        him a Broadside that was a Beaut.
                    "Won't you ever get tired of badgering these persecuted Lambs?" she demanded.
                        "Instead of nagging them all day and telling them how Bad
                        they are, you ought to get down on your knees and give Thanks that you've
                        got three such lovely Children. The idea of your abusing poor Wallie! When
                        you were his Age, you read Yellow-Back Novels 
                        and put Oil on your Hair and wanted to jump into the Well because the School
                        Teacher wouldn't elope with you. It makes me so dratted Huffy, too, to hear
                        you correct Bob and Ruth. You seem to forget that when you were little you
                        always spilled Stuff over yourself at the Table and wasn't worth your Salt
                        at doing Chores and had a Temper like a Cross-Cut Saw. I raised six Children
                        and you gave me more Trouble than all the others put together. You were so
                        Dumb at School you had to drop back two Classes. All you wanted to do was to
                        tear out with those Toughs and kill Birds with Nigger-Shooters. I'm glad
                        your Children take after their Mother instead of you."
                    There he sat, Blown Up and the Search Light turned on him. He was caught with
                        the Goods.
                    After that he didn't dare to Peep. The 
                        children were ready to pull his Record on him. So it was a Happy Home.
                    MORAL: Keep the Children in the Dark.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Last Day at School & The Tough Trustee's Farewell
                        to the Young Voyagers
                    A HIGH-GRADE Heeler who had helped divvy the Campaign Fund and round up the
                        Barrel-House Vote and get the Hoboes into Line for Good Government, was so
                        beloved by his Party that he was made a Member of the Board of School
                        Trustees and set up as an Example to the Young.
                    Whenever the High School Graduates put on their White Organdies and Dark
                        Cutaways and got ready to up the Gang-Plank and embark on Life's Voyage, it
                        was the Custom to have a Representative Member of the School  Board on hand to give them a Send-Off. One
                        Year the Political Boss was chosen for this Honor. He had been putting up
                        Flat Buildings and buying Bonds on a Salary of $1,800, and it was believed
                        that he was just the one to tell the Young Folks how to Succeed in Life. He
                        wanted to know what he was expected to Talk about, and they told him about
                        Ten Minutes, and be sure and tell the Class how to shin up the Ladder and
                        get their Death-Grip on the Top Round. For it must be known, Reader, that
                        when the Gentle Youth break out of High School they not only Launch on the
                        Tempestuous Sea, but they also begin to climb the ladder of Fame and hike up
                        the toilsome Mountain-Side and go into the waiting Harvest Field, all at the
                        same time.
                    The Boss was no Albert J. Beveridge. Oratory was not his Long Suit. He was
                        better on  a Still Hunt than on the Stump. He
                        did his most effective Work with a Dark Lantern and a pair of Goloshes.
                        Fortunately he had a Talented Stenographer, and he told her to draw up to
                        her Machine and beat out about 500 Words of South Wind. She wrote the
                        customary Josh the kind that has been passed out to Graduating Classes since
                        the Year One.
                    She said they were standing on Life's Threshold, getting ready to put Rosem
                        on their hands and do the Ladder Act. All those who had been Studious and
                        had loved Teacher and got 98 in Botany were dead sure to be Useful and
                        Respected Citizens if they continued to be Honest and Industrious and
                        Persevering. When the Trustee looked it over he said there couldn't be any
                        possible Kick on such Advice, because it had been used on Thousands of
                        Children and never seemed to affect  them one
                        way or the other. So he put it in his Pocket.
                    On Commencement Day he went up to the High School. He wore
                        a Black Suit that was meant for a Polar Expedition. It was a Hot, Sticky
                        Day. The Exercises struck him as being very Yellow.
                    Two Scared little Girls, with gas-pipe Underpinning, played one of those
                        hurry-up Duets. Then a tow-headed Boy stood on one Foot and told why Greece
                        and Rome had Petered out. He offered a few husky Suggestions in regard to
                        Educating the Masses and edged back to his Seat, falling over himself on the
                        Way.
                    Then a fat little girl, who seemed to have a rush of Blood to the Head, told
                        all about "Ambition." She said there were several kinds of Ambition, and
                        those who overplayed it would surely get a good hard Toss sooner or later.
                    
                    She said the Trouble was that some People were Ambitious to make Money and
                        control Legislation. She didn't think it was right.
                    A pale Boy with high-water Trousers and a recent Hair-Cut, pulled out the
                        Tremolo Stop and sang a low Refrain about "Life's Duties." He said that no
                        one should accumulate Wealth or try to get the Bulge on Honest Toil or put
                        on any toppy Lugs with Silks and Broadcloth. He advised every one to give up
                        the mad Race for Wealth and be a Philanthropist, drying the Widow's Tears,
                        jollying up the Orphans and planting sweet Flowers along Life's Rugged
                        Pathway.
                    "Our Country" was the Subject chosen by another Boy. He said we had Europe
                        and Asia crowded off the Map and nothing could head us off, unless we forgot
                        the Flag in our desire to grab off the Money. He gave the Politicians a hard
                        Larruping and said he  wanted to see the
                        pure-minded Patriots put in charge of Things.
                    There were other Clarion Calls to Duty, and then a panicky Miss, whose Voice
                        sounded like some one standing too close to the 'Phone, read the
                        Valedictory. She claimed that the Class was all Broken Up at the Prospect of
                        bolting away from the kind Principal and the Dear Teachers, but the time had
                        come for them to tackle the Ladder and get on the Boat and start up the
                        Mountain, etc., etc. She hoped that the whole Class was ready to Scatter
                        into the Great World and pull for Success, and she said that Success was
                        measured by Good Deeds and not by Dollars and Cents.
                    Then the Principal made one of these Wehave - with - us - this - Afternoon
                        Introductions, whereupon the Member of the Board unfolded himself and worked
                        out into the Clearing. He  felt in his inside
                        Coat Pocket for the MSS., but it was not there. He fanned his clothes and
                        Patted himself, but nary a Sound of Legal Cap. Then he remembered that in
                        changing to the Pall-Bearer's Make-Up he had neglected to transfer the
                        Speech.
                    For a few Seconds he was Non-Plussed. Then he braced himself and decided to
                        introduce a Positive Novelty at Commencement Exercises and speak what was on
                        his Mind. So he said: "Little People, I have been in a kind of Trance for a
                        couple of Hours. You have been handing over a few that were too High for
                        your Uncle Fuller. I have been around more or less in my Time, and I thought
                        I had bumped up against several hefty Intellects, but when it comes to being
                        there with the Gray Matter you have got all of us Old People left at the
                        Post. When I look up at these 16-story Minds I feel like a  Discarded Deuce. You ought to be proud of the
                        Fact that you have more Knowledge than the School Board and all of your
                        Relatives put together. I happen to know that when the President of the
                        Board wants to find out the interest on $175 for one year and nine months at
                        Six Per Cent, he wears out a Pencil or two and gets all Balled Up, and
                        finally has to go over to the First National Bank and have the Man work it
                        out for him. I have told myself at times that I was a fairly Hot Potato, but
                        if any one asked me to define Algebra, I couldn't make a Sound. I'll tell
                        you, a rusty old Wheel Horse hasn't got the Nerve to try and show any speed
                        when you enter him against a Juvenile Phenom.
                    "I think it is a Safe Bet that you Young Folks are better Posted now than you
                        ever will be again. In the Years to come, your Steady Job will be to Forget
                        what you learned  in High School. When you get
                        thrown out of Employment you can always sit down and work at that. I am
                        predicting that 20 odd Years from now, when almost any one of you will be
                        trying to raise two or three Children with one Hand and lift a Mortgage with
                        the other, if some one came along and asked you to tell the difference
                        between Syntax and Prosody you would tell him to Brush By.
                    "Far be it from me to Knock the Benefits of High School training. Although I
                        received my Mental Discipline in a Brick Yard, I have always been Sore
                        because I didn't get to wear Class Colors and learn one of these
                        Siss-Boom-Ah Yells. I have worried along without a Diploma, and although shy
                        on Latin and History, I have picked up a few points on doing the Other
                        Fellow, which reminds me: I notice that nearly all of you take a long Run
                        and Jump at the Almighty Dollar and the Machine  in Politics. There seems to be a general Determination not to go out
                        after the Shekels. What you want is Culture, and not the Coin. If you feel
                        that way about it, you can Gamble that you will never have enough of it to
                        make you Proud and Overbearing. Nobody is going to force it on you; in fact,
                        my Experience is that it is pretty hard to Rake Up, even when you want it
                        and want it Bad. Probably you have given more Thought to this Matter than I
                        have, but if you don't mind being steered a little, I would suggest that you
                        get what you can of the Long Green and afterwards arrange for a little
                        Culture on the Side. In most Households now-a-days the Husband Rustles
                        around and gets the Stuff and lets his Wife work the Culture End of the
                        Game. Any time that he provides her with the Spondulix, she will bring Home
                        enough Culture for Two, all right, all right.
                    
                    "It seems, too, that the whole Bunch is going out to Root for Purity in
                        Politics. I would be a Reformer Myself if I could find any one who would pay
                        me a Salary for Kicking. As soon as I find a Reform Party compactly
                        Organized and Cornering the Spoils, I will declare for it good and strong,
                        and I hope you will all be with me. As nearly as I can find out, Politicians
                        are not with the Machine because they are Stuck on it, but because they need
                        the Money. They would be perfectly willing to Plug for the General Good if
                        they could see Anything in it. As you grow older and get more Light on the
                        Subject and some of your Friends begin to run for Office, probably you will
                        take a more charitable View of Party Management.
                    "I will now ask you to come up and get your Sheepskins. Take this precious
                        Certificate home and put it in a Dark, Cool Place.  A few Years hence when you are less Experienced, it will give
                        you a Melancholy Pleasure to look at it and Hark back to the Time when you
                        knew it all. Just one Word in Parting. Always count your Change, and if you
                        can't be Good, be Careful."
                    And he sat down.
                    MORAL: To avoid dealing with Facts, always have your Speech in
                            your Pocket.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of Woman's True Friend & The Hopeful Antique
                    THE Beauty Doctor sat in her Pink Reception Room hoping that she resembled
                        her Lithographs. Her Income was a Dollar every time she took a Full Breath.
                        She got it by selling Freckle Food and a Preparation for getting rid of
                        Moles, called Moline. Her hot Specialty was to Calcimine the Has-Beens and
                        feed them a little Ginger and send them into the Arena looking like Vassar
                        Girls. It did not take her long to put an Extension on an Eye-Brow, and she
                        could provide a Blush for those who had been going to Card Parties so  long that they had forgotten how to Blush.
                        When she got after a Wild Hair the Hair simply threw up both Hands and quit.
                        In a little Folder entitled "How to Fool Everybody except those who live in
                        the Same House," she had proved that there was no Reason why a Girl of 60
                        should not look 19 if she put on enough Shellac and kept out of the Light.
                    The Beauty Doctor had seen many a Derelict float in for a new Coat of Armor
                        Plate, but the Nobody's Darling that wafted in this Day established a
                        Record. She was something like Poultry. That is, if she carried any Adipose,
                        it did not show in her Face or Feet. And she wouldn't have torn under the
                        Wing. She had a Bird's-Eye Maple Complexion and wore one of these Gowns that
                        you get by measuring yourself with a String and sending Two Dollars. Without
                        saying anything in Disparagement of her Private Character or denying  that she may have been kind to her Relations,
                        it may be added that she resembled a Daily Hint from the Short Timber.
                    "I saw your Card in the Bee-Keepers' Bazaar, and I have decided to back in
                        for a few Repairs," said the Visitor. "If you can build me a Set of Curves
                        the same as I see in the Cigarette Pictures and cause my Hair to Bush out
                        and hang to the Belt Line the same as it used to in 1882, and give me some
                        perfumed Dope that will restore a Peaches and Cream Complexion on or before
                        May 1st, I will do the Generous Thing by you and pay Seven Dollars."
                    The Beauty Doctor seldom took the Count, but this was one of the Times. "My
                        Private Secretary will take charge of your Case," she said faintly, and then
                        she went into another Apartment and lay down.
                    The Private Secretary was the Last Resort.  He
                        had no Conscience. For two seasons he had been a Cloak Salesman. "Surely you
                        have not come here for Treatment." he said, smiling at the
                        Caller. "You have the Shape that they are raving about in Paree this Spring,
                        and we could not improve your general Tint no matter how many Coats we used.
                        The quiet and unobtrusive Elegance of your Get-Up, combined with what Nature
                        has so generously parcelled out to you, makes it unnecessary to attempt any
                        Alterations. All that you need to do is to retain intact your present
                        Category of Superlative Charms. This you can manage by a careful Perusal of
                        our Book: 'How to stay Pretty.' It comes to Ten Louies."
                    So she had the Volume wrapped up and went away tickled.
                    MORAL: The only Ones who need Patching are those who Think they
                            need it.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of This Year's St. George & The 800 Microscopic Dragons
                    FOR many years a thoughtless Man had been plugging along, eating three Square
                        Ones each Day, gaining about a Pound a Month, and not taking any Care of
                        himself at all.
                    One Night he happened in on a Lecture Course to find out about the Germ
                        Theory of Disease. When the Pictures were shot on the Screen, he learned
                        that ordinary Drinking Water and many kinds of Food were chuck full of
                        three-eyed Dinguses with curly Tails and long Feelers. The Lecturer
                        explained that  when a few Flocks of these
                        Organisms moved into a Gentleman and began to Play House and Nibble around,
                        it usually meant that there was going to be another Order for Satin Lining
                        and Silver Handles.
                    The Man who had been knocking around for Thirty-eight Years, drinking out of
                        Hydrants and Troughs and eating any old Thing that could be Masticated, was
                        Scared stiff when he realized how many thousands of times he had flirted
                        with Death.
                    From that Moment he decided that he would not touch any Water unless it had
                        been Boiled and Skimmed. When he couldn't get Boiled Water, he would demand
                        Vichy or Deep Rock or a certain Lithia containing Sillykilate of Polarium,
                        which is Good for whatever you happen to have at the Time.
                    Occasionally he would forget and take a Swig of Plain Water, the same as
                        other People  were drinking. Then, when it was
                        too late, he would recall those Pictures of the Germs, and he could make out
                        a whole Menagerie of these little Animals grazing around through his Inwards
                        and leading bold Expeditions into the most remote Corridors of his Being.
                        After he had thought about them for a while, they would seem to be about the
                        size of Oyster Crabs and sometimes it seemed to him he could feel their
                        little Claws tickle when they were doing a Mobile Buck on the smooth Surface
                        of his Diaphragm. He wondered what would happen to him when all of them
                        started to Gnaw their way out.
                    
                    He began to wear a haggard, persecuted Look. The Microbes were hiding at
                        every Corner, waiting to pounce out at him. The crafty little Creatures were
                        floating around in the Air and the only way to Baffle them was to breathe
                        through a Sieve. They were camped  out by the
                        Millions on a moldy Piece of Bread, while one Cubic Inch of Roquefort Cheese
                        contained 14,500,000 of them, many of them Bearded and wearing curved Horns,
                        the same as a Billy Goat. He began to drink Carbolic Acid. It is Horrible to
                        know that while one is Slumbering, the brutal Bacilli are climbing up the
                        Brass Bedstead and over the flowered Spread and tunnelling into the System
                        from all Directions. When a Man begins to realize that he is merely a
                        Repository for a large Zoo of Micro-Cannibals, he feels Unworthy and
                        Discouraged.
                    This Man became so worried and apprehensive that he could not sleep of
                        Nights. So he began to read up on Nervousness and learned that he would have
                        to let up on Tea and Coffee and Cigars and Pastry and nearly everything else
                        that he really liked. He put himself on a Diet of Asbestos Breakfast Biscuit
                             and some other kind of Health Fodder
                        which resembled the Excelsior Packing that comes around Lamp Chimneys. When
                        he was Thirsty he had a little Sterilized Milk or a nice refreshing Cup of
                        would-be imitation Coffee, made out of parched Barley. He began to take his
                        Temperature and examine his Blood under a Microscope. When he discovered
                        that a minute form of Tadpole was playing hide-and-seek among the
                        Corpuscles, he gave a low Moan and ordered a fresh lot of Insect Powder.
                    Now it is well established that He who begins to scrutinize his Interior
                        Economy and Brood over the conduct of the Germs that he happens to be
                        Chaperoning, will get ready, sooner or later, to do what is known as the
                        Appendicitis Act. Every time this Man had a Stitch in the Side, he went and
                        Shaved himself and brushed his Hair and got ready to make  a neat, respectable Appearance on the
                        Operating Table. Then the Doctor would come and go over him with a
                        silver-plated Tack Hammer and try to locate the imaginary Lumps. It would
                        require an awful Argument to convince the Man that he was All Right.
                    As might have been expected, he began to get Daffy on the Subject of
                        Nutritive Qualities in Food. This was another wild Tack, for which the
                        Scientific Works and the Health Hints in the Paper were responsible. At the
                        Table he would poke suspiciously at the Dishes and want to know how much
                        Nitrogen, Carbon, Starch, Dextrin, Sugar and Albumin they contained. It took
                        away the Appetite of those who had to associate with him. Instead of going
                        ahead and Eating, he merely monkeyed with Chemical Compounds and used his
                        Stomach as a Retort. He began to exhibit the jerky Mannerisms of a Kansas
                             Reformer and it was whispered at the
                        Office that he was slightly Touched. But he was not. He was simply making a
                        consistent Effort to conform to the new-fangled Science of Living, and it
                        was wearing him to a Rack of Bones.
                    One day in walked his Brother Thomas, who was travelling Auditor for an
                        Investment Company. Thomas was Fat and Sassy, with a Patch of Red on each
                        Cheek.
                    "Ah, Brother," said the Germ Gladiator. "I judge by your nippy Appearance
                        that you have been subsisting on Gluten and dodging the Bacilli."
                    "What in Thunder are Bacilli?" asked Brother Thomas.
                    "Surely you are aware that the Universe lately has been overrun by small
                        Bugs, invisible to the Naked Eye," said the Learned Brother. "If a Buff
                        Bacillus with a Blue Stinger gets into you, it means Lumbago. If  one of the six-legged Fellows with a plaid
                        Husk starts a Hatchery somewhere on your Preserves, then you may consider
                        yourself elected for Spinal Meningitis, and so on. There are now over 800
                        Varieties running at large, seeking whom they may Devour. I have figured
                        that it is impossible for any Person to escape them for any Length of Time.
                        Our only Hope is to prepare for the Battle by eating petrified Wafers,
                        drinking Anti-Septic and keeping a private Drug Store in the Closet. For
                        three Months I have been in a hand-to-hand Struggle. I am still in the Ring,
                        but I am getting wobbly. I never can tell what minute a Germ is going to
                        sneak up behind me and Soak me good. It keeps one pretty Busy when one has
                        to have one's Eye peeled for 800 different kinds, knowing that the whole
                        Push has it in for One."
                    "That is Strange," said Brother Thomas. "I 
                        have been all over the Country putting up at bad Beaneries, eating and
                        drinking everything I wanted from Pie to Pilsner, drinking 87 different
                        samples of Well Water in Country Hotels, and raising Cain generally. I have
                        not carried any Drugs with me. Neither have I sat up at Night to throttle
                        the Animalculae when they came in through the Window to do me Dirt. How does
                        it happen that I, who have taken no Precautions, am Strong as an Ox and
                        feeling Boss, while You, who have been making such an intelligent Warfare on
                        the little Rascals, look as if you were ripe for a plain white Cot in the
                        Ward for Incurables?"
                    "It seems," said the Sufferer, "that the pesky Things show a Spirit of
                        Retaliation. They get after the People who are trying to Investigate them."
                    MORAL: Never Arouse a sleeping Germ.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of Alexander from up the Road Whose Wife Took Him over the Jumps
                    ONCE there was a Man named Alexander who lived in a Town that vibrated with
                        Excitement for a full Week after a Donation Party. Most of the Town seemed
                        to be waiting for a High Wind to come along and give it a fare-ye-well Lift,
                        but there were two Brick Blocks with red Galvanized-Iron Cornices and a
                        ginger-bread Court House that had put the rural Taxpayers into the Hole for
                        200 Years to come.
                    When a Stranger happened along every one who lived there told him it was a
                        Nice Little  Town for fear that he wouldn't be
                        able to find it out for himself.
                    Alexander owned a Plant in this Town. By Close Figuring he had succeeded in
                        getting enough of the hateful Rhino to enable him to build a large
                        pink-and-yellow House with more than $2,000 worth of jigsaw Scallops tacked
                        all over it. The Wife of Alexander was Elvira and their Daughter was Farina,
                        the Name having been found in a Cook Book.
                    When the Family sat on the Piazza of their Palatial Home the Sun got into
                        their Eyes so that they were unable to Recognize the Common Run of Town
                        People, who got along by delivering Milk and raising their own Truck.
                    Elvira and Farina went to Europe one Summer with a Personally Conducted Drove
                        that had been Picked Up and Driven In from as far west as Walla Walla. They
                        came home  with their Carry-Alls full of Junk
                        and began to use a little French. Elvira had to brace herself and hold on to
                        something when she got rid of a Long One. While doing the Grand Tour of the
                        Hotels they had met some Lovely Gentlemen who wore Gloves even when they
                        were not working around Horses. So it was pretty tough to come back and
                        settle down among the Provincials who wore the $8.88 Kind from Eisenstein's.
                    Alexander began to observe a new Order of Things. Instead of putting the
                        entire Supply of Victuals out on the Table so that All Hands could pitch in,
                        Elvira had the Courses brought in a little Dab at a time. Alec put-up a
                        medium Holler, but he was overruled in such a Jiffy that he never Came Back.
                        He had to learn to use an Individual Butter Dish and a Finger Bowl with a
                        Fruit and Vegetable Exhibit sailing around in it.
                    
                    It soon became evident that Elvira and Farina were getting too Swagger to be
                        tied down to a Water-Tank. They wanted to hie away to the City, where they
                        could mingle with their own Kind. Also Elvira wanted to get outside the
                        Sphere of Influence of a lot of spiteful old Tabbies who had organized the
                        I-knew-her-when Club. They had Elvira's Record just about right, including
                        Names and Dates. They had put on their Vermilion and Feathers and were out
                        Ghost-Dancing and waving their Tomahawks because Elvira had got so High and
                        Lofty that she couldn't see where they came in at all. They said she seemed
                        to forget the Time when she had to give Lessons on the Melodeon and could
                        have put all her Duds into a Hat Box.
                    When Alec's Factory went into the Combine and he Doubled his Stake then
                        Elvira made the Star Play of her Life. The Trio got  into a Parlor Car and went right up to the City to drop a few
                        Dividends into the Slot and take out more or less Social Prominence. Alec
                        was going sideways and trying to derail the Expedition, but Elvira ordered
                        him to take hold of her Dress and keep close behind and she would land him
                        right in among the Chosen and Elect.
                    For a Time after arriving in Town they lived at a Hotel, but the Street Cars
                        made so much Noise that no one heard of them being on the Scene. Alec began
                        to get Lonesome, so he warmed up to the Porter at the Hotel and was getting
                        Chummy with the Night Clerk when Elvira told him to Drop it, and said if
                        they wished to be mistaken for the Real Thing they must give all
                        Subordinates and Employs the dull Eye and pretend not to see them. Elvira
                        had been looking over the Ground and she said that in order for  them to get into the Running it would be
                        necessary to take a House out on the Avenue and begin to entertain every one
                        who had a Drag. Alec proposed that they slip back to where they could be the
                        biggest Ducks in the Puddle, but Elvira thought of the I-knew-her-when Club,
                        and she said they had come up to get into Society and they were going to get
                        in, even if they had to Dig a Tunnel.
                    The Family leased a large chilly house built in the Style of Louie the
                        Something, and engaged an Englishman with a petrified Face to Buttle for
                        them and began to go to Places where People did n't need Invitations in
                        order to get in. Now and then Elvira or Farina would clutch Alec by the Arm
                        and whisper, "Here comes one now," and then the Women Folks would hold their
                        Breath while a Devil of a Fellow in John Drew Clothes and a Touch-me-not
                        Front wafted by.
                    
                    They explained to Alec that there was a Woman named Mrs. Wetherby-Glue, who
                        had a little Book in which she kept a List of all the sure-enough,
                        sassafras-scented specimens of the Aristocracy, and no matter how much Agony
                        you threw on, if you were not in this Book, your Name was Dennis. So the
                        Game was to induce this Hyphenated Lady to let down the Bars and stamp your
                        Ticket.
                    After they had been thrashing around the Outposts for a few Months without
                        seeing a Chance to slip through the Lines, Elvira decided to give a Dinner
                        and invite all the Well-Known Characters they had met and make it a sort of
                        an opening Wedge. When the Regrets came pouring in it seemed that every new
                        Acquaintance was Indisposed or had Serious Illness in the Family or was
                        compelled to Decline on account of a Recent Bereavement. Alec read all these
                        Throw-Downs and  said there was one
                        Consolation: If there was that much Sickness and Death in the local Four
                        Hundred he figured that the whole Caboodle would be Extinct in a couple of
                        Years and then he would be afforded a happy Relief from his Troubles.
                    Elvira and Farina were hanging on the Ropes for a few Days after the Fizzle,
                        but they did not Give Up. They pulled themselves together and resumed Sawing
                        Wood. They slathered Alec's Money on Subscription Lists and forced their way
                        into all the Charity Dress Parades and got a large upholstered Pew right in
                        the Parquet Circle of the Church attended by the Notables, and they
                        positively refused to be Overlooked.
                    After three Years of Patient Endeavor they got their Wish, for all Things
                        come to him who is so Resilient that he comes back into Shape every time the
                        Band-Wagon runs over  him. Elvira and Farina
                        and Alec were invited to Break Bread with Mrs. Wetherby-Glue.
                    "To-Night's the Night," said Elvira, trembling like an Aspen. "You want to be
                        sure and Laugh every time the Mother Superior springs one of her Mots and
                        remember that the little Cup early in the Deal contains Consomm and not Tea,
                        so don't toss any Loaf Sugar into it or back to the Country we go."
                    After the Triumphant Event, when they were coming homeward in the Carriage,
                        there was a Sound of subdued Cussing. It was Alec.
                    "I don't like to Beef," he said, "but I feel like the Farm Hand from
                        Muscatine that counted out his Summer's Wages and then picked up the Wrong
                        Shell."
                    "Cheer up," said Elvira. "It was a tolerably punk Evening, but thank goodness
                        we have Arrived. By the way, where were you all during the Solemnities?"
                    
                    "They had me tucked away behind the Shrubbery at the Foot of the Table,"
                        replied Alec. "A spare Lady and I were hiding down there together. She told
                        me all about her Spitz Dog and I said 'Yes, Ma'am' over 800 times. I
                        calculate that I have put in the Best Years of my Life and blown $40,000 to
                        find out about that Dog. Stop the Hack. I want to get something to Eat."
                    And he got out and went into an Oyster Bay.
                    MORAL: The cheapest and best Way to find out about Gay Society
                            is to buy a 50-cent Book.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The General Manager of the Love Affair Who Demanded a
                        Furlough
                    THREE Days before the Wedding was to be Pulled Off, Cupid sat on a Mantel in
                        the Bachelor's Apartment and made a few Remarks to the scared Bridegroom.
                    "Old Pal, you are in for it," said the Roly-Poly Match-Maker. "You are
                        Elected by a Pennsylvania Majority. I have got you to the Point from which
                        there can be no Crawfishing. You could not Weaken now, even if you wanted
                        to. If you have any lingering Doubts as to the Wisdom of this Jump, pray
                        Forget them."
                    
                    "I have no Doubts nor Fears," replied the Bachelor. "I have captured the
                        sweetest Child that ever drew the Breath of Life. The Future is to be one
                        long Pleasure Excursion in a rubber-tired Vehicle over an Asphalt Road with
                        Syringa Bushes blooming on either side."
                    "That's the Style of Talk I like to hear," said the delighted Cupid. "I got
                        you into this Mix-Up with my little Bow and Arrow and justly celebrated Love
                        Philters and I am pleased to know that you are going to Stick. It was I who
                        arranged that First Meeting at the Summer Hotel when you spotted her in the
                        Red Jacket and the Short Skirt. You will recall the Fact that she did not
                        wear any Hat. When you saw her with the Truant Locks blowing around her Eyes
                        and the Dimpled Cheeks warmed by a bona-fide Blush, you began to walk
                        sideways. When I lured the two of you out to the Links and observed  that you stood for her Slicing and Pulling
                        and Doctored her Score, I saw that it was a Clear Case. It was I who shooed
                        away the Intruders when you sat beside her on the Rustic Bench and gazed at
                        her Foolish-Like, and wanted to let your Right Arm do its Duty, but you
                        lacked the Nerve and feared that it might Queer Matters. It was your own
                        little Cupid who finally convinced you that you could go ahead and get Busy
                        without causing her to Faint or Shriek for Assistance. I braced you up to
                        taking the High Hurdle after you had Balked a dozen times, and she was
                        beginning to think that you were a Stick. As Superintendent of all those
                        Happy Hours in the Hammock and the Boat Rides on the Lake, when she listened
                        to your Singing and pretended to like it, I flatter myself that my Work
                        speaks for itself. I have handled this Case to the Queen's Taste and now
                        that the  Match has been Clinched by an
                        Engraved Invitation and the usual Newspaper Notoriety, I feel that I am
                        entitled to about Two Weeks' Vacation."
                    "But you are not going to Quit me at this Crisis, are you?" asked the
                        Dismayed Bachelor. "Think of the Ordeal that the Family of the Bride and
                        other Officious Friends have mapped out for us. In the dreadful round of
                        Ceremonies now bearing down upon us, we need you more than ever."
                    "That may be," replied Cupid, "but about to-morrow Evening this Game will
                        begin to be too hot for any mere Child, so I am going to take to the Deep
                        Woods. I want to get away before you give your Farewell Kick-Up to the Best
                        Man and the Ushers and other Rowdy Friends. It is now the Practice in our
                        most polite Circles to get the Groom good and Ory-Eyed about twenty-four
                        Hours before he  Steps Off and then have him
                        keep his Edge until the whole Show is over and he is loaded on a Sleeper. A
                        Bachelor Dinner with a lot of Broken Glassware, the Best Man crying into the
                        Olives and some one named Horace asleep in the Corner, is no Place for a
                        tender Infant. I will have to cut it out. And I must pass up the Exercises
                        at the Church and the Reception at the House. Excuse me from getting packed
                        in with a lot of Jay Relatives that you have to Ask out of Politeness. I
                        have a perfect Horror of the Gentlemen's Dressing Room, where everybody will
                        be taking Bromo and telling what time he got out of the Turkish Bath.
                        Probably you will be a Sight, especially around the Eyes. Our Relations have
                        been so Idyllic up to this Stage of the Proceedings that I could not bear to
                        see you approach these Nuptials in a Trance. As for the Reception, I have no
                        desire to be trampled  upon by 235 male and
                        female Indians herded into a Residence built to accommodate about nine."
                    "It is going to be something Dire," said the Bridegroom, with a mournful
                        shake of the Head. "However, I must see it to a Finish."
                    "I suppose you must," said Cupid, "but when the Florist, the Caterer, the
                        fussy Female Manager and the Detective to watch the Presents, come in at the
                        Door, Love flies out at the Window. Cupid cannot operate in a Crowd. If my
                        gentle Influence could Prevail against the Power of Precedent, I never would
                        permit you Two to stand in front of the Frozen Face and promise to Love,
                        Honor and Obey. I am for the Whispered Vow in the Dusky Corner with two
                        Folks sitting in a Chair built for one, but Nix the Circus Performance. I do
                        not believe that True Affection  should be
                        hauled out to Show Off before a curious Mob. And when the Gang begins to
                        crowd up to kiss the Bride, that is when Cupid wants to be somewhere else. I
                        never could see the Poetry in having a Pink-and-White Bride pawed over by a
                        lot of Uncles and Aunts, to say nothing of Cousin Charley, who generally
                        manages to Ring In as a Practical Joker. If I were you, I should Register a
                        Kick."
                    "I'd like to, but it wouldn't do any good," said the Bridegroom. "All the
                        imbecilic Customs must be observed."
                    "Yes," continued Cupid. "After you have tried to crowd a lot of Rich Food on
                        a persecuted Stomach that looks up and says, 'Please Don't,' then you will
                        start for the Train. At this Juncture the Rice-Throwing Comedian and the Wag
                        who ties White Satin Ribbons on the Trunks will get in their  Cute Work. I suppose you will be very Jolly
                        on the Train, with every one On to you bigger than a House. Little Oochkins
                        will wear her Gray Going-Away Gown. She ought to call it her Gray Give-A
                        way. Gown. Whichever way you turn you will hear the Stage Whisper behind
                        you, 'Look at 'em!' You certainly have a Hatful of Hilarious Moments ahead
                        of you, I don't imagine. If Cupid had his Way, every Marriage Service would
                        be enacted in the still Moonlight, with no $10 Preacher to give the Cues,
                        and only the Peeping Stars as Witnesses. The Young Couple would repair at
                        once to a Lodge in some Vast Wilderness, eighty-five Miles from a Hotel
                        Clerk or a Fresh Drummer. But, as I am telling you, Love has no Voice during
                        the so-called Festivities. When you begin to Frost the Cakes and hang Smilax
                        on the Chandeliers, I fly the Coop."
                    
                    "But you will return?" asked the Groom.
                    "I will wait until you have had your Fill of running the Gauntlet in Strange
                        Hotels and cowering before Head Waiters," replied Cupid. "You will have to
                        stay on your Tour for at least a few Weeks, just to prove that you can
                        Afford it. When you come back and assume a Lease and count up your Presents
                        and begin to Swap duplicate Pickle-Dishes and Lamps for something you can
                        use in the Kitchen, I may look in on you. If you have managed to get along
                        without having any Spats and are really anxious to keep away from the
                        Inquisitive Public, I shall come around and scratch on the Door and possibly
                        you will permit me to come in and take charge of your real Honeymoon. If I
                        can get the cooperation of a good Cook, I think I may be able to show you a
                        choice quality of Connubial Bliss. But I am off  the Contract until you get through with this Splurge."
                    And Cupid faded away.
                    MORAL: If it were not for the Presents, an Elopement would be
                            Preferable.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Day's Work & The Morning After
                    PROMPTLY at 7.30 the Alarm Clock went off. The Rounder sat on the Edge of his
                        Bed and wondered if there was Anything in it. His Tongue felt like a Rug. He
                        was afraid to work his Face for fear it would Crack.
                    He took a Cold Plunge, rubbed some Pepper Sauce in his Hair, drank a Quart of
                        Hot Water, gargled a Patent Preparation warranted to kill the Maroon Taste,
                        and by that Time he was able to look at his Watch and realize that nobody in
                        the whole World truly Loved him. He did not seem to have any  keen Craving for Breakfast, so he drank two
                        large ruby-red Cocktails, smelling like Furniture Polish, just as an
                        Appetizer. After he got them placed he sat at the Window for a while,
                        watching the Landscape straighten itself out. He remembered that he had two
                        or three Friends, after all, so he decided to give this Earth another Trial.
                        Accordingly he ordered up as many Ham and Eggs as could be forced on one
                        Platter and two Stacks of Buckwheat Cakes, and he kept on until he had
                        extinguished the Cocktails.
                    At an Early Age the Rounder had read in McGizzick's Physiology that the
                        Capacity of the Human Stomach is Three Pints. His Object in Life was to
                        prove that McGizzick was away Off and must have got hold of a Youth's Size.
                    After the Rounder had smothered the Cocktails under 80 Cents' worth of Plain
                        Food, he  started for his Office, where he met
                        a Drummer, who took him out to talk Business. They opened two or three Cold
                        Bots and ate a few hillocks of Cottage Cheese, Souse, Dill Pickles,
                        Radishes, Blutwurst and Rye Bread with Caraway in it, because they were
                        Free. Then the Rounder excused himself because he had a Date for Luncheon.
                        This light Repast consisted of Blue Points, Gumbo Soup, Fried Spring
                        Chicken, Baked Potatoes, Cheese and other Food for the Gods floated to its
                        Destination in a mixture of Ale and Stout, sometimes known as Liquid
                        Buckshot. In the Afternoon our Hero went to his Club and played Pool, and
                        whoever had it put on him had to buy what made Milwaukee famous for the
                        Others. Along in the Middle of the Afternoon the McGizzick Theory did not
                        have a Leg to stand on.
                    At Dinner Time he keyed up on Aqua  Fortis and
                        Bitters, which enabled him to take Nine Courses, with Red, White and Blue
                        Irrigators to keep him Encouraged, and then four California Grapes for
                        Dessert. By this Time, McGizzick, Author of the School Physiology, was a
                        Liar by the Watch.
                    In the Evening the Rounder went to a Show. Between Acts he sauntered out with
                        a few Western Gentlemen and seeped up frequent High Balls, accompanied by a
                        little Snack of Oyster Crackers, the embalmed Herring known as the Blind
                        Robin, Water Cress and Anchovies. After the Show they dropped in for their
                        Broiled Lobster, Combination Salad, Welsh Rabbit and Nineteen Rounds of
                        something to take. At a late Hour the Man who had demonstrated that
                        McGizzick was an Ignoramus, went to his Brass Bedstead and lapsed into a
                        State of Coma.
                    
                    Next morning his Room was twisted. Some one had put a Bed of Live Coals under
                        the Sheet. He felt as if he had swallowed a Steam Radiator and some one had
                        gone down to repair it. He had a case of Bust-Head and a dry crackly Thirst.
                        He sent for a Physician, and when the Learned Man came to make his
                        Diagnosis, the Rounder said: "Doc, it's my own Fault. I ate some Grapes last
                        Night."
                    MORAL: Avoid Fruit.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Sure-Thing Crook & The Town of Nubbinville
                    THERE was once a Grafter who would do anything for Money, except Work.
                    He had acted as Capper and Plugger for all sorts of Shady Enterprises. He had
                        helped to operate every variety of Skin Game on the Farmers who come out of
                        the Union Station carrying Telescope Valises and Shoe Boxes full of Lunch.
                        He had given the quick Zing-Zing to Cattlemen who hang around and invite
                        Trouble after they have drawn their Money. He stood in with the Police and
                        knew an Alderman and the Law had no Terrors for him.
                    
                    In fact, the Grafter thought he was one of the Brightest, and Best. When the
                        Fish were running and the Nets came up heavy he would wear a large Stone in
                        front and smoke a 15-Center with a Gold Label on it.
                    One Spring there was an Election coming, so the Authorities suddenly
                        discovered that the Town was Bad. They closed everything tighter than a
                        Drum. The Pool Rooms, Poker Joints, Brace Faro Games, Policy Shops, Opium
                        Dens, Crap Parlors, and in fact nearly all the Sporting Centers, except the
                        Stock Exchange, put up the Green Shutters and went, out of Business until
                        the periodical Spasm had played itself out. The Police were so Vigilant that
                        any one who dropped a Penny in the Slot to get a stick of Wintergreen Gum
                        was taking his life in his Hands.
                    During this Season of Depression the accomplished  City Grafter decided that he would go out among the Jays and
                        try to scare up two or three Green Wrappers for his rapidly diminishing
                        Roll.
                    He had a Scheme for coaxing Money out of those who want to get Something for
                        Nothing. His Lay was to sell 18-Carat Jewelry at a Nominal Price, in order
                        to introduce the Goods, and then put Real Money in the Boxes as an Extra
                        Inducement. One Corner of the Greenback was allowed to Protrude as an
                        Evidence of Good Faith.
                    The Grafter had a Satchel filled with Tin Jewelry and Alaska Diamonds, just
                        received from the Glass Works, when he descended on a Flag Station called
                        Nubbinville, which is near the Jumping-Off Place in Pike County. It was one
                        of these Towns that seemed to be trying to hold two Farms apart. When you
                        are passing it on a Train it Leaves Off and 
                        you are out in the Country again before you have time to ask the Name.
                    The well-dressed Shark from the City hoped to do well. He stood up on a
                        Dry-Goods Box at the Principal Corner and made a Hurry-Up Call and began to
                        give away "Friendship" Rings in order to whet the Interest.
                    Just as he was elucidating his Unselfish Motives for the benefit of the Male
                        Residents, who were looking up at him with their Mouths open, the Town
                        Marshal came racking down the middle of the Street with a piece of Sapling
                        in one Hand and a Star on his Coat.
                    The Marshal needed Money that Day. He drew a Salary every Month, but it was
                        so Small that if it had been paid to him in Pig Iron he could have carried
                        it Home all right. But he got his Bit every time he Pinched any one. So he
                        had to Arrest somebody about  once so often in
                        order to have enough for Groceries and Fuel. This Official did not find it
                        advisable to put his Constits into the Cooler, because he was around every
                        Year asking them to vote for him. But if a Hired Hand came in and
                        accumulated Sosh, or if any Stranger began to act New along Main Street, he
                        was Jerked Up in less than no Time. And one of them Thimble-Riggers from the
                        City was justly regarded as Meat.
                    So the Representative of the Dignity and Majesty of the Law broke through the
                        Crowd and introduced himself.
                    "If you are the Town Marshal, as you say, I will ask you to remain here while
                        I am giving my Lecture and Free Entertainment and if any one makes any
                        Trouble, you arrest him," quoth the diplomatic Grafter.
                    But the Town Marshal was not to be stalled off. He said he wanted $2 for a
                        License Fee  right away or he would put the
                        Grafter into the Hen-House so quick it would make his Head swim. So the
                        Grafter gave up Two and started in to mix up the Little Boxes and the Town
                        Marshal arrested him for Swindling and led him over to the Calaboose.
                    The next thing to do was to send for the Squire.
                    He was out trimming a Hedge, but when be heared that there was some Easy
                        Money down town, he put on his Black Coat and got out his Revised Statutes.
                    The Squire and the Town Marshal backed the Grafter up into one Corner of the
                        Calaboose and made him stand for a Search. They found nearly $80 on him, so
                        they advised him to get a Lawyer and told him they would do the Fair Thing
                        by him and give him a Jury Trial.
                    The Marshal happened to have 12 Personal 
                        Friends who had not been Working for a number of Years, so he went over to
                        the General Store, where they were wont to Congregate and Criticize the
                        Government, and summoned them to serve as Jurors. He told them it would not
                        take long because the man was Guilty.
                    At the Trial the Prosecutor made a pathetic Spiel about the Honest Laboring
                        Man who is done out of his Money by Designing Villains who live in the City.
                        The Peers who were trying the Case shifted their Cuds and looked Serious.
                        The Attorney for the Defendant collected his Fee in Advance and then advised
                        his Client to Plead Guilty.
                    When the Evidence was in, the Squire gave the Twelve Good Men and True a few
                        Instructions. He said if they found the Defendant Guilty they would receive
                        $1.25 each in the Way of Fees. If they found him Not  Guilty they would get what the boy shot at.
                    The Jury was out about Four Minutes by the Watch. They Soaked him $10 and
                        Costs; especially the Costs, because that was where the Home Talent came in.
                        By the time the Squire, the Marshal, the Prosecutor, the Attorney for the
                        Defence, the Clerk and the Twelve Jurors cut into the Eighty, they had it
                        reduced to $53.75.
                    After the Prisoner had settled, the Squire took him aside and told him he
                        hoped there would be no Hard Feelings as they merely done their Duty, and to
                        prove to him that they did n't have it In for him, they would permit him to
                        Sit in a little Game of Poker in the back room of the Harness Shop. They
                        knew that he had the $53.75. The misguided Grafter thought he saw a chance
                        to pull back some of his Stuff, so he willingly consented to hold a few
                        Hands.
                    
                    Now, a Man never knows what Poker is until he gets into one of these Country
                        Games back of the Harness Shop. The Outsider who caroms against that Outfit
                        might as well Hand them his Money when he goes in and then start for Home
                        and get some Sleep. No matter how long he stays or how Close he plays them
                        the Local Combine is going to flounce him and flounce him Right, because
                        they need the Money. They can't Lose. They are the Boys who invented Poker.
                        They may not wear Link Cuff-Buttons or be Up on the Songs of the Day, but
                        when it comes to Realizing on what they Hold they are so many Calla Lilies.
                    All the Money that went into that Cut-Throat Game was Money that the Grafter
                        had brought into Town with him. The Squire, the Clerk, the Prosecutor, the
                        Attorney for the Defence and the Marshal pulled off their  Coats and lit "Nellie Gray" Cigars and moved
                        up to the Table, and by the Time they got through with Mr. Grafter they had
                        the $53.75 and the Satchel full of Fake Jewelry, and he was putting up his
                        Watch to get the Price of a Ticket to the Great City where the Slick People
                        live.
                    MORAL: For a proper Shake-Down take the Small Town.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Foozle & The Successful Approach
                    EVERY year a lot of Americans went over to London to rub up against the
                        Aristocracy, if possible. One year two Men went over. They intended to hang
                        around and look Wistful until the Nobility and Landed Gentry would take some
                        Notice of them.
                    Each had a Scheme for securing Recognition.
                    The first chased himself to Regent Street and bought an entire Outfit of
                        British Clothes. He began to use the sound of A as in Father and say Mean
                        Things about the Boers. He  held his Hat in
                        his Hand whenever he approached a Title. He went out of his Way to run down
                        the vulgar Americans. Consequently he was walked upon and despised as a
                        Toady.
                    The other Man allowed his Hair to grow down over his Collar. He wore a Buck
                        Taylor Hat with a Leather Strap around it and kept it at an Angle of 45
                        degrees. He refused the B. and S. and demanded Cocktails. When he met an
                        Englishman he called him Pard and held out his Flipper and said he'd be
                        catawampously Jiggered if he was n't all-fired Proud to meet him. He plucked
                        the Tail Feathers from the gullorious Bird of Freedom and waved them
                        defiantly at the Lion and the Unicorn. He said that the British Isles were
                        merely a Breakwater for the Continent and would n't make a Patch on the Land
                        of Liberty.
                    He was invited to all the Drawing-Rooms 
                        because it was a Pleasure to meet such a breezy and Typical American.
                    MORAL: When you are in Rome do as the Romans expect you to
                        do.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Old- Time Pedagogue Who Came Down from the Shelf and Was
                        Sufficiently Bumped
                    ONCE there was a hard-grained Old-Timer who was living in the Past. He dated
                        back to the Time when the Man who could sport a Velvet Vest and a pair of
                        Blue-Topped Boots was considered a Hot Member. He had been a School-Teacher
                        when the Education of the Young came under the Head of Manual Labor. In that
                        remote Period there was a deal of Respect for the Adage, "Spare the Rod and
                        Spoil the Child." The Rod was never Spared, and that is why all the Children
                        grew up to be Self-Respecting Husbands  bands
                        and Model Wives, if you don't care what you say.
                    In the Stone Age of our Public School System, the Teacher had to Board Around
                        and was paid in Pelts. The wiry Pioneer Schoolmaster of the Coonskin Cap and
                        the tangled Back Hair was blazing the way for co-educational Normal Schools
                        and Mother Conventions. At that time the Old-Timer had been regarded as a
                        first-class Instructor.
                    When he applied for a School in his Day and Generation he did not have to go
                        before a Superintendent in a Black Cheviot Suit and tell why X is to Y as
                        the Known is to the Unknown, or what Crops they gather on the Head Waters of
                        the Orinoco. If the Applicant was big enough to throw a Horse and had licked
                        the Bad Man of the Township at a Kissing Bee, he was given the School then
                        and there. On the First Day he always 
                        selected the Biggest Boy and got the Hammer-Lock on him and Wrassled him
                        around on the Puncheon Floor and upset Furniture. If he made the Boy yell
                        "Enough!" he was a Fixture, even if he did not know the difference between
                        Diphthong and Semicolon.
                    The Scholars brought Red Apples to him, and he held the Book at a
                        Spelling-Down, with no chance for an Argument.
                    Now it happened that the Old-Timer had a Daughter who had reached the
                        Home-Stretch without being Asked, so she was Teaching. And she was keeping
                        up with Advanced Methods, which were as a Sealed Book to the Old-Timer, who
                        had not set foot within a School Room for more than forty-five Years.
                    One Morning the Daughter was Ill and told her Father he had better notify the
                        Main Squeeze so that her Pupils could be given  a Holiday. The Old-Timer said there was no necessity of turning into the
                        Street a Band of Children who were Panting for Knowledge and anxious to
                        improvement. He said it was rather quiet around the Hardware Store and they
                        could spare him, so he would go down and give the Rising Generation a slight
                        Boost toward Useful Citizenship.
                    He went out and cut three Gads of about the size needed to convince a Mule.
                        When the Children, with Faces shining bright, answered the Morning Bell,
                        they found the Old-Timer seated at the Desk.
                    "Now, Children, which do we tackle firstReadin', 'Ritin' or 'Rithmetic?" he
                        asked.
                    The assorted Batch representing Our Country's Hope gave him the Ha-Ha!
                    "Are you having Fun with me?" asked the Old-Timer, severely.
                    "You'd better have some one wake you  up," said
                        a little Snip of a Girl who wore Glasses. "Who has been Stringing you? The
                        idea of our trifling with the Rudiments you mention is really Ipskalorious."
                    "That's what they used to Teach," said the Old-Timer, who was so Flustered
                        that he had to Spar for Wind.
                    "It must have been a long time since," said the Fresh Little Girl. "You don't
                        look as if you had been On Earth since the Year of the Big Wind. If you
                        don't know how to get away with this Job, you ought not to go against it.
                        You are what Charles Francis Adams would call a Peachalprum."
                    "I do not know who Charles Francis Adams is, and I never saw a Peachalorum,
                        but I am the Boy in charge here to-day, and I refuse to be Joshed," said the
                        Old-Timer, with some Asperity. "If the Curriculum does not consist of the
                        Three R's, will some one of you  precocious
                        Tikes put your old Uncle next to what you do study?"
                    "I will give you a few Points, seeing that you are stalled," said a very
                        small Urchin. "First we design Wall-Paper, then we dissect a Rat, after
                        which we have French and Calisthenics, and finish up with a few Stunts in
                        Botany and Entomology."
                    "What in the Name of all Git-Out is Entomology?" interrogated the Old-Timer.
                    At this Bad Break there was more Scornful Laughter. The Little People
                        certainly had the Old-Timer looking like Mexican Money with Holes in it.
                        Every time they knocked him a twister he Fumbled it and fell over in the
                        Tall Grass.
                    "Back to the Mines, Grandpa!" shouted one Roguish Youngster in the Back Row.
                    Then all of them began to Talk about him in French, which he could not
                        understand.  They said he was a Hommard, the
                        same being French for Lobster.
                    "Stop all this Hifalutin' Tomfoolery," exclaimed the Old-Timer, with Rising
                        Anger. "Talk United States and don't Jabber. How are you on the Spell?"
                    "We don't Monkey with Spelling any more," replied the Boy. "We simply start
                        in and learn to Read the first Crack out of the Box."
                    "Well, since you are so Gay, let me ask you if you can make a Bird in the
                        Free-Arm Movement without taking the Pen from the Paper?"
                    "Say, you must be a Fossil of the Lower Silurian Epoch," said the boy.
                        "Whoever dug you up ought to have Labelled you and put you in a Cabinet. We
                        don't make Scrolls any more. The Vertical System is now the Whole Thing."
                    
                    "And I guess that'll Hold you for a While," added the Biggest Boy in the
                        Room. "I think you'll Lie Quiet for a few minutes after that Last One."
                    "Where do all you Sophisticated Brats get your Rich Vocabulary of Slang?"
                        asked the Old-Timer, who was now thoroughly Warm under the Collar. "Is that
                        included in your Course of Studies also?"
                    "No, we acquire that at Home," said the Little Girl who had first spoken.
                    "Yes, and most of you have acquired about three Quarts too much for your own
                        Good," said the Old-Timer. "I may be a few Stacks shy on this Billy Baxter
                        Style of Kidding and I don't claim to know how to cut up a Rat or design a
                        Bolt of Wall-Paper, but I think I can give all of you several Homely Hints
                        on General Department and Respect for your Elders."
                    
                    With that he produced one of the Gads and made a Come-Along Sign to the
                        Biggest Boy.
                    "What are you going to do?" asked the Boy, turning pale.
                    "You," was the Response, for the Old-Timer was On to a few of these
                        Farce-Comedy Gags.
                    "Surely you must know that Corporal Punishment has been relegated to the
                        Archives of our Educational System and violates every Tenet of the new
                        Science of Mind-Culture," said the Boy.
                    "I have not read This Year's League Rules," said the Old-Timer, 'but I know
                        what is Coming to you."
                    "We must be governed by Moral Suasion," said the Argumentative Youth. "If I
                        am not susceptible to the ordinary Discipline, then I may be Punished by
                        being Dismissed from the Room."
                    
                    "I don't call it Punishment unless you can count the Welts," said the
                        Old-Timer. "I attribute my own Success as Book-Keeper in a Hardware Store to
                        the Fact that I was pounded Black and Blue at least three times a Week, all
                        during those Happy Days at the Little Red School-House. The only Way to
                        dispel the Latent Cussedness from a Child's System is to Thrash it out."
                    Saying which he grabbed at the Boy, who broke ground and Feinted with his
                        Left and worked the Fitzsimmons Shift and had the Old-Timer spinning like a
                        Top. Then the Boy did the Jab-and-Retreat Act a few times and waited for an
                        Opening before he put in the famous Corkscrew Punch and terminated the
                        Battle.
                    They helped the Old-Timer back into his Chair and dusted his Clothes and
                        explained to him that there was a Gymnasium in connection  with the School, having a retired
                        Welter-Weight as Instructor in Physical Culture.
                    "You should have slipped in an Upper-Cut when he spread his Guard," said the
                        Little Girl with Glasses, as she straightened his Cravat for him. "You
                        certainly had your Nerve with you to take on our Plunging Half-Back, who has
                        been in Training all Fall."
                    "Children, you are one too Many for me," said the Old-Timer, meekly. "I am a
                        Has-Been of the First Water, and I give in before Moral Suasion. School is
                        dismissed.
                    
                        MORAL: Stay with the Procession or you will never catch
                        up.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Man Who Was Going to Retire
                    ABUSINESS Slave was pulling like a Turk so that his Wife could wear three
                        Rings on every Finger. Also, he wanted to put aside something for a Rainy
                        Day. He put it aside as if expecting another Deluge.
                    He always said that he was going to Retire when he had Enough. When he was 20
                        years old he hoped to amass $10,000. At 30 he saw that he would not be able
                        to peg along on less than $100,000. When he was 40 he realized that a Man
                        that did n't have a Million was little better than a Tramp. At 50 he wanted
                             to make the Elkins-Widener Syndicate look
                        like a band of Paupers.
                    At 60 he still promised himself that he would retire. Just as soon as he had
                        cabbaged everything Getatable, then he was going to lie back in an Invalid
                        Chair and read the 18,000 Books he had collected, but he had not found time
                        to cut the Leaves.
                    In order to get ready for his Lay-Off he built a Home in the Country. He told
                        the Architect to throw himself on something compared with which Windsor
                        Castle would be a Woodman's Hut. He decided on a Deer Park, a Poultry Farm
                        and Ancestral Oaks, so as to have something Ancestral.
                    He put up a Shack that reminded one of the State Capitol at Springfield. It
                        was big enough for a Soldiers' Home. The Family consisted of himself and his
                        Wife, and the Architect allowed them 19 Bath-Rooms apiece.
                    
                    The Rugs and Tapestries cost $1.75 a Thread. Every Painting was fresh from
                        the Salon and had the Cost-Mark attached to show that it was Good Goods.
                    When the Place was completed he handed the Business over to the Junior
                        Partners and went out to Rest. He turned on all the Fountains and ordered
                        the Birds to strike up. The Dream of his Life had come True. He had no
                        Cares, no Responsibilities. All he had to do was sit there and watch the
                        Grass grow.
                    He enjoyed it for nearly 25 minutes and then he began to Fidget, so he went
                        and sat in the Marie Antoinette Room for a while and counted the Stripes in
                        the Fresco, Afterward he took a Turn about the Grounds and came back and
                        wondered if everything was running along all right at the Office.
                    "Gee, but this is Tame!" said the Retired Hustler. "I think I'd better take a
                        little Run  into Town to be sure that the
                        Under-Strappers are not making a Botch of it."
                    At 11 o'clock he was back at the Old Stand, hovering about like an Uneasy
                        Spirit. He looked over the Correspondence and dictated a few Letters and got
                        the Noise in his Ears and he began to feel Good again.
                    His Associates told him to clear out and play with the Deer and the Prize
                        Chickens.
                    "I have been Associating with them all Morning," was the Reply. "They did not
                        seem disposed to close any Contracts, so their Society palled on me.
                        Besides, I have been looking around and see that you can't get along without
                        me. Furthermore, it is all Tommy-Rot for a man of 68 and just entering the
                        Prime of Life to talk of Retiring."
                    When the Reaper finally came the old Gentleman was found in the Tread-Mill
                        but he was still counting on making use of the  Country Place, next Year or possibly the Year after.
                    
                        MORAL: One cannot Rest except after steady Practice.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Bookworm and The Butterfly Who Went into the Law
                    TWO Brothers started away to College at the same Time. Just before they
                        boarded the Train, Pa led them aside and handed them some splendid Advice.
                        He told them that they were now ready to mold their Futures. He said he
                        wanted them to stay in of Evenings and Bone hard, and he hoped they would
                        mind the Faculty and keep away from the Cigarette Fiends who play the Banjo
                        and talk about Actresses. He wanted them to stand high in their Classes and
                        devote their Spare Moments to Reading rather than to the  Whimsies and Mimical Fooleries of a
                        University Town.
                    William listened solemnly and promised to Behave. Cholley fidgeted in his
                        Chair and said it was nearly Train-Time.
                    So they rode away on the Varnished Cars, William reading about the Goths and
                        Vandals and Cholley playing Seven-Up with a Shoe Drummer from Lowell.
                    At the University William remembered what Pa had said, so he cooped himself
                        up in his Room and became a Dig and soon enough was greatly despised as a
                        Pet of the Professors. Cholley wore a striped Jersey and joined the Track
                        Team and worked in to the Glee Club. He went to his Room when all the other
                        Places had closed up. Every Time a Show struck Town he was in the Front Row
                        to guy the Performers and pick up some new Gags. He went calling on all the
                        Town Girls  who would stand for his Fresh
                        Ways, and he was known as the best Dancer in the Ki Ki Chapter of the Gammaa
                        Oopsilon Greek Letter Fraternity. The Reports sent Home indicated that
                        William was corralling the Honors in Scholarship and Cholley was getting
                        through each Exam by the Skin of his Teeth, but he had been elected a Yell
                        Captain and could do his 100 Yards in Ten Seconds Flat. Pa would write to
                        Cholley now and then and tell him to Brace Up and give him a Hunch that Life
                        was full of Sober Responsibilities and therefore he had better store his
                        Mind with Useful Knowledge and Chop on all the Frivols and Fopperies,
                        whereupon Cholley would write back that he needed Fifty by Return Mail to
                        pay for Chemicals used in the Laboratory.
                    By the Time that both were Seniors, William had grown a fuzzy Climber in
                        front of each Ear and was troubled with Weak Eyes.  He always had a Volume of Kant under his Arm and seemed to be
                        in a Brown Study as he walked across the Campus. Cholley kept himself Neat
                        and Nobby and seemed always Cheerful, even though he had two or three
                        Conditions to his Discredit and had only an Outside Chance of taking his
                        Degree. He was Manager of the Football Team, and he had earned the
                        affectionate Nickname of "Rocks." He was a great Hand to get acquainted with
                        any Girl who dared to show herself near the Halls of Learning and by
                        constant Practice he had developed into a Star Chinner, so that he could
                        Talk Low to almost any one of them and make her believe that of all the
                        Flowers that ever bloomed she was the one and only $30,000 Carnation.
                    William kept away from Hops and Promenades because he remembered what Pa had
                        said about the Distracting Influence of Fripperies  and the Twittle-Tattle of Artificial Society. The only Girl he
                        knew was a Professor's Sister, aged 51, with whom he was wont to discuss the
                        Theory of Unconscious Cerebration. Then he would drink a Cup of Young Hyson
                        Tea and go Home at 8.45 P. M. Cholley at about that Time would be starting
                        out in his Primrose and Dockstader Suit to write his Name on Dance Cards and
                        get acquainted with the Real Folks.
                    On Commencement Day William received the Cyrus J. Blinker Prize of a Set of
                        Books for getting the Highest General Average of any one in the Class.
                        Cholley just managed to Squeeze Through. The Faculty gave him a Degree for
                        fear that if it did n't he might come back and stay another Year.
                    After they had graduated, Pa gave them another Talk. He said he was proud of
                        William, but Cholley had been a Trial to him. 
                        Still he hoped it was not too late to set the Boy on the Right Track. He was
                        going to put both of them into a Law Office and he wanted them to Read Law
                        for all they were worth and not be lured away from their Work by the
                        Glittering Temptations of Life in a Big City. William said he was prepared
                        to Read Law until he was Black in the Face. Cholley said he would n't mind
                        pacing a few Heats with Blackstone and Cooley now and then, if he found that
                        he could spare the Time. The Father groaned inwardly and did not see much
                        Hope for Cholley.
                    When the two Sons became Fixtures in the Office of an established Law Firm,
                        William kept his Nose between the Leaves of a Supreme Court Report and
                        Cholley was out in the other Room warming up to the Influential Clients and
                        making Dates for Luncheons and Golf Foursomes.
                    
                    Within three Months after they started at the Office, William had read all
                        the Books in the Place and Cholley was out spending three weeks at the
                        Summer Home of the President of a Construction Company, who was stuck on
                        Cholley's Dialect Stories and liked to have him around because he was such a
                        good Dresser and made it lively for the Women.
                    Out at this Country Place it happened that Cholley met a Girl who did n't
                        know how much she was worth, so Cholley thought it would be an Act of
                        Kindness to help her find out. When he sat out with her in the Cool of the
                        Evening and gave her the Burning Gaze and the low entrancing Love Purr that
                        he had practised for Four Years at the University, she stopped him before he
                        was half finished, and told him that he need not work Overtime, because he
                        was the Boy for Nellie.  She said she had had
                        him Picked Out from the Moment that she noticed how well his Coat set in the
                        Back.
                    In one of the large Office Buildings of the City there is a Suite finished in
                        Dark Wood. At a massive roll-top Desk sits Cholley, the handsome Lawyer, who
                        is acquainted with all the Club Fellows, Society Bucks and Golf Demons. When
                        a Client comes in with a Knotty Question, Cholley calls in a Blonde
                        Stenographer to jot down all the Points in the Case. Then the Client
                        departs. Cholley rings a Bell and Brother William comes out of a Side Room
                        with his Coat bunched in the Back and his Trousers bagged at the Knees. His
                        Cravat is tied on one Side only and he needs a Shave, but he is full of the
                        Law. Cholley turns all the Papers over to him and tells him to wrestle with
                        the Authorities for a few Days and Nights. Then William slips  back into his Hole and Humps himself over the
                        calf-bound Volumes while Cholley puts on his state-colored Gloves and Top
                        Coat and goes out to where Simpson is holding a Carriage Door open for him.
                        He and Nellie take the air in the $2,200 Victoria that he bought with her
                        Money and later in the Day they dine with the Stockson-Bonds and finish at
                        the Theater.
                    Cholley often reflects that it was a great Piece of Foresight on Pa's part to
                        counsel Studious Habits and Rigid Mental Discipline, for if William had not
                        been a Grind at College probably he would not have proved to be such a Help
                        around the Office, and although William gets the Loser's End of the Fees and
                        is never Called on to make a Witty Speech at a Banquet given by the Bar
                        Association, he has the Satisfaction of knowing that he is the Silent
                        Partner of the bestdressed  Attorney in Town
                        and one who is welcome wherever he goes.
                    MORAL: There are at least two Kinds of Education.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Third & Last Call
                    PUBLIC Official presiding at a Marriage-License Counter put his Head through
                        the Window and shouted "Next!" There sidled up a well-seasoned Girlie who
                        said she would take a $2 Writ of Attachment which she might use in gagging
                        and binding a Helpmate.
                    "What is the Victim's Name?" asked the Clerk.
                    "You can search me," was the reply. "I wish to goodness I knew. I've been
                        waiting for him ever since the War. I can't imagine what keeps him."
                    
                    "What good is a License unless you have your Prey already in the Stockade?"
                        asked the Official.
                    "I want one with a Space left blank, so that I can use it in a quick
                        Emergency," she replied, "I can't afford to take Chances. It is getting too
                        late in the Afternoon. Eighteen Years ago I sent my Heart's Idol out for the
                        Parchment that would legalize our undying Love, but he happened to get on a
                        Green Car instead of a Yellow one. He missed the Court House two miles and
                        caught a Train for Los Angeles. I had to sit up for two Nights picking the
                        Initials out of my Trousseau. Another time I planted one in a Waiting-Room
                        while I went after the Permit. A Girl came in to dust the Room and he had to
                        move, so I haven't seen him since. Next time I get one in Chancery there
                        will be immediate Doings. I will simply say 'You 're On'  and flash the Document. And then if he runs
                        away he will have to carry a lot of Weight."
                    MORAL: Never put off until To-Morrow what should have been done
                            early in the Seventies.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Crustacean Who Tried to Find Out by Reading a Book
                    ONCE there was a Man who lived in the same Hall Bed-Room for 14 Years. It was
                        a snug little Box-Stall. There were raspy Lace Curtains on the Windows. The
                        Man used to scratch Matches on them. Also there were two Paintings. One was
                        either a Landscape or a Marine, and the Second represented a Male Gazelle
                        with his Hair combed the Way the Barber will comb it unless you stop him.
                    The Roomer would come Home about once a Day and climb over the Paste-Board
                        Trunk  and look out at the Roof of the
                        adjoining House, and then decide to Go Out and stay as Late as possible. He
                        ate at a Restaurant in which Tall Waitresses with Belladonna Eyes and False
                        Frizzes showed a Partiality for the Customers who Waxed their Mustaches. He
                        was accustomed to Bolt his Food, while some one named Gert leaned a Tray
                        against him and entreated Laura in the Kitchen to Cut a Hot Mince and let
                        the Fried Sweets come along with the Medium Sirline.
                    When he received his Biennial Bid to go around to some Private House he took
                        his Chop-House Manners with him. He would feel around his Plate for the
                        little Yellow Ticket with the Granulated Sugar caked on it, and perchance he
                        would ask the Maid if she had an Evening Paper lying around loose.
                    He had formed certain Habits inseparable  from
                        the Rank Outsiders and the Hoi Polloi. It was Second Nature for him to plant
                        both Elbows on the Table and use the Celery as a Whisk Broom, and try to
                        balance the Knife on the Fork, and spill some Salt on the Table-Cloth and
                        write his Name in it with a Tooth-Pick. He needed a Check-Rein and Hobbles
                        to hold him back in his Chair and keep him from Playing with the Table-Ware.
                    About the Time that he was 40 and a confirmed Reuben, he got in with the Rise
                        in Industrials, and the Wave of Prosperity carried him out of the Hall
                        Bed-Room and landed him in a Suite that he called a Suit.
                    He crowded his Luck and Parleed his Bets. Things came his way and he decided
                        that he might as well begin to Mingle with the Face Cards and make up for
                        Lost Time. He had read in a Bitter Editorial somewhere that any  one who had the Stuff could work the Open
                        Sesame on the 400, and he was willing to relinquish a few Shares of Atchison
                        Preferred in order to see his Name linked with those of the Butterflies of
                        Fashion. He had noticed that every one Made Fun of the People in Society and
                        tried to get Acquainted with them, and he was Willing to be a Member of the
                        Despised Faction.
                    A Piano-Player who went right into the Best Houses, unless they happened to
                        hear about it in Time, said he would Fix it for him. So the Hall Bed-Room
                        Man had a lot of Clothes made with Silk Lining, whether it showed or not,
                        for he was Determined to be the real Peruvian Doughnuts, and there was n't a
                        Thing to it.
                    He realized that he would have to get some Inside Information on Etiquette,
                        Table Manners and Good Form, but he thought about  three Lessons would put him in Condition to Saunter into any
                        Drawing Room and set Everybody to Whispering about him.
                    There were just a few Points that he wanted to straighten out before he took
                        his Header into the Swim. He had heard that a True Gentleman must or must
                        not wear a Bob-Tailed Coat with a Tall Hat, but he could not remember which.
                        Furthermore, he had a Dim Idea that any one wearing a Tuxedo would have to
                        cut out the Tan Shoes or else have the Lorgnettes pointed at him. He had
                        heard, also, that it was considered Rough Work to eat Peas with a Spoon, or
                        possibly a Fork, or perhaps a Knife. So he always passed up the Petite Pois
                        when any one was watching him, and merely ate a little Bread with a Fork,
                        because that was a Cinch.
                    The Piano-Player had suggested to him in  a
                        roundabout Way that any one who put a Napkin inside of his Collar or wore a
                        striped Bow with Full Dress would be shell-roaded, and never to wear Yellow
                        Gloves at a Ball, or it would be a Case of the Blue Wagon.
                    He found it was quite a Jump from a Hall Bed-Room and a Home-Cooked Meal for
                        25c. to the Society of Large Gloomy Ladies who used the Side of the Spoon
                        instead of the End. He began to understand that he had shouldered quite a
                        Contract when he tried to break away from the Herd and run forward with the
                        Bell-Cows.
                    Still, he made a Flying Start. The Piano-Player worked him into a Dinner
                        Party. The Hostess did not want to have just Thirteen at the Table, and that
                        is how the Hall Bed-Room Man wedged in. He received his Invitation at 6.15,
                        and at 6.45 he was on the Spot with a new Pair of Patent Leathers.
                    
                    He noticed that he was the only Gentleman present who wore Opal Studs, with a
                        Black Handkerchief folded across the Abdominal Region so as to produce a
                        Dressy Effect. He feared that he was not as de Rigeur as some of the Boys
                        that had been in the Game for a Season or more, and it Rattled him so that
                        he used the Large Spoon for the Blue Points and the Coffee Spoon for the
                        Potage. He tried to watch the Others to see which Implement to pick up next,
                        but most of them were taking Desperate Chances, the same as he was. By the
                        Time he reached Ice Cream he had no Tools left except a cute little Harpoon
                        and something that looked like a Surgical Instrument.
                    He rather Tripped up on the Conversation too, for he had not learned to play
                        Golf and never had been to see the Rogers Brothers. Once he thought he saw
                        an Opening, and he offered to show his new $200 Watch, but  every one started to Talk about something
                        else, and the Piano-Player kicked him under the Table.
                    He went home from the Dinner wondering If he would n't do better on the Night
                        Shift at the Glue Works than in the Front Row at a Function.
                    When a Woman sent him her Card with "Thursdays" written in the Lower Left
                        Corner, he did n't know whether he should Write, Mail a Card, send Flowers,
                        or regard it as an Effort on her part to make a Date.
                    He saw that there were a great many Fine Points in the Society Racket that
                        were New Ones on him.
                    So he went out and bought a Little Book written by a Space Man living in a
                        Stag Hotel, informing People how to Behave so as to give the Impression that
                        they were Well-Bred, no matter what the Facts might be.
                    
                    He went up to his Suite and read the Book and discovered that during the
                        whole 40 Years of his life he never had done anything According to Hoyle.
                    He had been accustomed to carry his Laundry with him each Saturday Evening.
                        The Book said that carrying a Bundle in the Street was a little worse than
                        Sheep-Stealing, and almost as bad as beating a Crippled Child with a Mallet.
                    He nearly choked with Shame when he read that any one who played a
                        combination of Frock Coat and low Derby was guilty of a Misdemeanor, and to
                        omit the Stick or Umbrella was nothing short of a High Crime.
                    It said that all Vegetables should be carried on the Fork. He did not believe
                        it could be done. He was no Equilibrist.
                    He read that Men must not wear Jewelry. He had always supposed that no Man
                        could  be out-and-out Genteel on anything less
                        than 14 Carats.
                    Then there was something more about the Spoon. Any one leaving a Spoon in the
                        Cup could be set down as a Boor, whatever that meant. And any one breaking
                        Crackers into the Soup deserved to be Drawn and Quartered.
                    But what Stopped him was the Warning that no one drinking from the Saucer
                        could be tolerated in the Best Circles. He wondered if a Man ought to Scald
                        himself, merely to be Correct.
                    When he concluded the Book and perceived that he had invariably violated
                        every Rule from A to Z, he knew that, he did not belong, and never would, so
                        he blew out the Gas, and they found Him there in the Morning.
                    
                        MORAL: To insure Peace of Mind, ignore the Rules and
                            Regulations.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Low-Down Expert on the Subject of Babies
                    YOUNG Parents have a way of bragging about their Offspring. Once there was a
                        Mean Man who became weary of their Talk. He knew that each Couple thought
                        that its own particular Cherub was the most Precocious one that ever
                        occurred. But he did not care to hear all about it, so he delved into the
                        Libraries and read all the known Works on the subject of Babies and when he
                        had finished he was Loaded and Primed for any Cocky Young Parent.
                    When a grinning and enthusiastic Papa  tackled
                        him in the Street and took up his Time with a Story of how little Robbie,
                        only Seven Months Old, could say "Moo" like a Cow, then this Ornery Cynic
                        would pull out his little Book and cite the Case of a Child in Lynn,
                        Massachusetts, who, at the age of Five Weeks, could Imitate a Cow, and say
                        "Dada" whenever the Male Parent came into the Room. He showed a little Table
                        of Statistics indicating that the Average Age at which Infants begin the
                        "Moo" Specialty is about Five Months, so that Robbie was really Backward and
                        some one ought to advise him to Smoke Up.
                    One Day a Mother cornered him and exhibited her first and only Izzy-Wizzy and
                        asked him if he had ever seen a Child of that Age with such a full Head of
                        Hair. If he had been the ordinary, polite Hypocrite, he should have
                        expressed Amazement and Delight at  the
                        Growth, but he was a Moral Hero with a Mission to perform, so he let her
                        know about a Baby in Michigan that had to have its hair braided in three
                        long Queues at the age of Three Weeks. After that the Mother never spoke to
                        him again.
                    He could prove by Huxley that the Grunting Sounds and the Facial Grimaces
                        were not indications of an Early Intelligence bestir-ring itself, but were
                        caused by Wind on the Tummy.
                    In Company one Evening a beaming Papa and Mamma were handing a small, squshy
                        one around from one Guest to another and listening to the Heartfelt
                        Declarations of Rapture. They called the Mean Man's attention to the Fact
                        that the Darling was willing to go to any Stranger, and asked him if he did
                        not consider it Unprecedented. By way of Reply he brought out some Notes
                        from Scientific  Works, proving that a Small
                        Child always shows a Discriminating Affection and a Distrust of Unfamiliar
                        Faces, unless its Faculties are Stunted. He said the Records would show that
                        a Child who will warm up to any Caller usually develops into an Easy Mark
                        for Life Insurance Agents and Confidence Men.
                    He knew just when the first Tooth ought to be through the Gum, and at what
                        Age a Tot should manage to Stand by holding on to a Chair, and how soon it
                        ought to begin to speak Pieces and sing "Little Birdy in the Tree."
                    It gave him Cruel Joy to prove to Parents that one Baby was about the same as
                        another and that all the Star Performances of little Itchy-Kitchy Pet had
                        been duplicated at least a Million Times in other Nurseries.
                    By following these Cold-Blooded Tactics he protected the General Public
                        against one  Variety of Bore, but when the
                        Mothers got together of an Afternoon he was read out of Decent Society and
                        the time came when he never received an Invitation to Dinner.
                    
                        MORAL: Let on to be Interested and Pleased.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Girl Who Could Compromise in a Pinch
                    SENTIMENTAL Totty told the Girl Friends all about her kind of Man. She said
                        she would drop the Flag on all Farmers. If she couldn't get one in the
                        Scratch Division she would do without.
                    "The Man who wins my cardiacal Regard must be Tall and Dark, with Raven Hair
                        tossed back from a Brow of Alabaster Whiteness," she said, as she reached
                        for another Olive. "He must be Brave, yet Gentle. I would have him a
                        Chesterfield as to Manners and as Bright as Winston Churchill. In  Thought and Speech he must be pure and
                        unsullied. Withal, he is to be Strong and Manly. He who would hold down my
                        Rocking Chair must be a Chivalrous Gentleman, and don't you forget it."
                    That evening a Red-Headed Boy wearing striped Flannels and smoking a Bulldog
                        Pipe came to the Front Gate and Whistled. She upset four Flower Pots in
                        getting to him.
                    
                        MORAL: Nothing ever works out according to
                    Specifications.
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Satiated Globe-Trotter Who Found a New Kind of Nerve
                        Twister Waiting for Him at Home
                    He was a cold-blooded Tourist who had been Everywhere. He had seen so many
                        Sights that now nothing could Move him. Everything under the Shining Canopy
                        had become Dull and Ordinary. He was a Track-Sore Performer.
                    When this Case-Hardened Traveller came back to the Inland Town in which his
                        Family had been set up as the Sacred White Cow for several Generations, it
                        was not because the Burg appealed to him, but because he  had Done the World so Thoroughly that all
                        Towns looked alike to him.
                    For he had run the Gamut of Excitement. What he had Been Through would make a
                        Jules Verne Narrative sound like one of the Elsie Books.
                    He had been mixed up in so many Stirring Adventures that it was about a Tie
                        between him and Roosevelt.
                    And now he returned to his Old Home, that had no Attractions except a Free
                        Reading Room and a Basket Ball Team. He felt that he had Played his String
                        and gone his Length. He was what one might term Blase, although it is not
                        hard to be That in a town which pronounces it Blaze.
                    He seldom came off of the High Horse or let down from the Pose. He did not
                        Cotton to the Humble Joys of Middle-Class Americans. It was a Matter of
                        Pride with him that  his Pulse never jiggled
                        and his Temperature never scooted up to Fever Heat. Any Show of Emotion was
                        regarded as Vulgar.
                    When the whole Country was having its Quadrennial Epileptic Convulsion, known
                        as the National Campaign, he did not so much as remember the Names of the
                        Candidates.
                    He went to an Arena to see a Championship Battle between two Grand Little
                        Boys who did 133 at the Ringside. It was a Twenty-Round Quarrel, full of
                        Gore and Knock-Downs, but it never gave him a Tingle. While the Saloon Men
                        were shrieking to the Participants to Beat his Block off and Jam him in the
                        Kisser, the jaded Traveller sat and read a little Book of Sonnets that he
                        had Picked Up in London. After the Kid had been carried out of the Ring,
                        looking like a Hamburger Steak, the Globe-Trotter looked up Wearily and
                        asked what the  Score was. It was the same as
                        Cricket to him.
                    Even at a Foot Ball Game he was Calm as a Graven Image. He never Batted an
                        Eye when the Peerless Half-Back went down the Field like a forked Flash of
                        Lightning, leaving the Gridiron strewn with writhing Giants who were sure to
                        get their Pictures in the Paper, with a Toss-Up between the Obituary Column
                        and the Sporting Page. At the Supreme Moment, when ten thousand Partisans
                        got up on their Hind Legs and yowled like Coyotes and the Girls squealed and
                        fell between the Chairs and loosened their Back Hair, it was then that the
                        Human Refrigerator sat there regarding his Finger Nails and wearing the
                        small dry Smile of the Chap who is Dreadfully Bored.
                    He was undoubtedly the Champion Wet Blanket. It seemed that nothing short of
                             Electrocution would have sent a Thrill up
                        the Back of His Neck. He could lean up against a Hot Water Pipe and have it
                        Stone Cold on the Count of Ten.
                    He had what People who know a little French call an Awful Case of the Ennui.
                        Nothing interested him and nothing displeased him. He was Supremely
                        Indifferent. He was the kind that gets up and Saunters out of the Theater
                        when all of the Common Run have Goose Pimples up and down them and their
                        Eyes bulging out, wondering whether the Heroine is going to Come Back at the
                        Nobleman with a Dirk or accept the Money and Fly with him.
                    One Evening he went to a Party because it was too much Trouble to send
                        Regrets. He sized up the Assemblage with a lack-luster Eye while seated on a
                        Moorish Divan, made in Grand Rapids, Mich. Near him sat a Young  Thing with a Baby Stare, whose Brain-Throbs
                        ran about four to the Minute. Her Photograph may be seen in front of any
                        Gallery. She was not a World-Beater as to Shape, Style or General Get-Up.
                        She was Young, but not too Young. The Market Man would have called her a
                        good sizable Broiler. The Globe-Trotter had seen whole Flocks of the Same
                        Kind coming out of Candy Stores and Wednesday Matines. In Budapest and Paris
                        he had passed up Dozens who had her beaten a Block. And yet she was It.
                    She sort of squiggled over to make room for other Young People, and her Elbow
                        happened to touch lightly the Dress Coat of the Cold Storage Proposition. He
                        felt a couple of Volts enter his System, and he began to Curl like an Autumn
                        Leaf. He had hunted through Mesopotamia and Matabeleland for a New Sensation
                        without getting it, but he found it  good and
                        plenty then and there. He had heard of the Magnetic Girl, or the Georgia
                        Wonder, but he had not believed that any living Maiden could send the
                        Current crackling into him, for he was a Non-Conductor, and Insulated
                        besides. But little Daisy, the Coming-Out Girl, did the Trick.
                    He started to Talk to her, but it was Good-by to the Careless Ease of Manner,
                        for he was in a Trance. She held to a Button on his Coat and looked up into
                        his Eyes and chirped about the Favors and the Wax on the Floor, and he felt
                        himself wafted away on a Fleecy Cloud. He, the Cast-Iron Veteran, who had
                        left strange, dark Women pining on Distant Shores, because he would not Warm
                        Up, and whose Pride and Boast it had been that nothing could Jar him, was
                        now scally-hooted to the Queen's Taste, with his Nervous System full of Hard
                        Knots.
                    
                    His Pulse pounded like a Steam Riveter. Every Chandelier in the Room became a
                        revolving Pin-Wheel. Some one had built a Fire under him, and he was slowly
                        Broiling in an Agony of Confused Happiness. She treated him to more
                        White-Hot Emotions in Ten Minutes than he had found in Years of Travel.
                    All that Night he followed Daisy around like a Trained Collie, and when he
                        saw her dancing with vealy Sophomores and pinning Flowers on them, he went
                        out into the Conservatory, where he upset Flower Pots and gnawed the
                        Geraniums.
                    Next Day he wrote a Note and sent Orchids and called her up on the 'Phone and
                        walked past the House two or three times. He could not Eat, and he had to
                        put Cold Water on his Temples and take Nerve Food.
                    He called every Evening unless she headed 
                        > him off with some Excuse. Usually he found her with several
                        Half-Baked Johnnies, whose Conversation was on the Order of a Colored
                        Supplement. He was Appalled to learn that Daisy regarded them as Funny.
                        Daisy did not care whether a Man had been around the World or only as far as
                        Indianapolis, so long as he could spring Jokes that would make her Giggle.
                    The Man of the World was in a Fine Box. Like the Fellow in the Song, he could
                        n't tell why he loved her, but he did. He loved her so hard that he looked
                        Wild out of the Eyes and went around with his Hair mussed Up, which was very
                        Amusing to little Daisy, for she could not see him at all except as a Good
                        Thing when she ran short on Violets and Chocolate Creams. His Record as a
                        Traveller did not make him any Stronger with her. The Aplomb that comes from
                        meeting the Ripping  Swells on the Continent
                        never Touched her at all. She simply wanted a nice, gabby Boy who could take
                        a Firm Hold and do the Two-Step for Hours at a time.
                    The Globe-Trotter went Kanny. He followed her in the Street and tried to
                        Scare her into an Acceptance by threatening to Shoot himself. Whenever he
                        broke into the House he wanted to lean against her and Cry. He got to be a
                        Pest and they had to Blacklist him.
                    On the Day that Daisy married the Low Comedian of the Amateur Dramatic Club
                        the Globe-Trotter tried to jump off of the Railroad Bridge. His Hair turned
                        White in Six Months. At present he lives as a Hermit in the Old Manse, but
                        sometimes he is encountered late at night Gibbering to himself.
                    MORAL: Somewhere there is a Daisy waiting with a Battery up her
                            Sleeve.
                    
                
                
                
                    The Fable of The Skittish Widower Who Tried to Set Himself Back Some
                        Thirty Years
                    ONCE there was a Self-Made Citizen who manufactured a Patent Churn. He had
                        been married for thirty-four Years and had three Children who were Grown Up
                        and Settled. He had Grubbed along all his Life. In his Youth he never had
                        gone High Rolling because he had been learning a Trade. His Compensation
                        consisted of Board and Clothes and a Yarn Comforter every Christmas. After
                        he got Married it was a Case of planting all the Small Change so as to be
                        there with the Rent Money on the First.
                    
                    In Time the Churn Maker got the Grape Vine Twist on Adversity and Won Out. He
                        had all kinds of Collateral and they began to be Pleasant to him at the
                        Bank. He could have written his Check for Six Figures, but he never did.
                    He continued to live in the same Modest Style and his Habits seemed to be
                        Fixed, He never ordered any Hot House Grapes for fear they would spoil his
                        Appetite for Prunes. He used a Bone Collar Button and a Ready-Made Bow Tie
                        that fastened on with an Elastic.
                    One Day was the same as another to him. He would arise at half-past six and
                        go out to feed the Horse and look at the Thermometer. Then he would have his
                        Fried Steak and two Cups of Martha's Coffee, and start for the Factory to go
                        through the Mail and try to put a Compress on the Pay Roll. The Woomen along
                        that Street could set their Clocks by  him,
                        for he always came home to Dinner just at ten minutes past twelve. After he
                        had disposed of the Roast. Beef and Trimmings and had his Wedge of Pie, he
                        would feed the Horse again and try to estimate how much longer the Coal was
                        going to last. Then back to the Place where the Churns were made. At
                        half-past five he would return for Supper. When they had Company they called
                        it Tea. In the Evening, if there was no Grand Army Camp-fire or Prayer
                        Meeting he would hold down a Rocking Chair in the Sitting Room. He seldom
                        wore a Coat around the House. He had a Pair of Velvet Slippers, worked for
                        him by his Daughter-in-Law, and when he put them on in the Evening he
                        groaned with Satisfaction. He would sit and read Churn Literature until
                        half-past nine, and then he would turn out the Cat, wind the Clock, fix the
                        Damper on the Furnace and connect with  the
                        Feathers. At half-past six next Morning he was up to repeat the Routine.
                    After thirty-four Years of this, he found himself a Widower. For a Time he
                        moped around by himself. The Blackest Clothes he could get were not half
                        Black enough. Although he still lived at the House, he took his Meals out at
                        a Boarding House conducted by a Lady who had driven her own Carriage at one
                        time, and said so at every Meal.
                    He missed the Coffee, and the Pie did not taste right. It was still and
                        lonesome in the Sitting Room. One Evening it was so Creepy around the House
                        when he tried to read that he went out for a Walk. As he strolled it
                        occurred to him that it had been Many Moons since he had taken the Night Air
                        with any Regularity. It seemed rather strange to realize that if he wanted
                        to he could stay out as late as the Owl Cars. For the first Time since  his Bereavement he felt the Gloom lifting. He
                        had to acknowledge that the sense of Liberty gave him a new kind of Thrill.
                        His Better Judgment told him that inasmuch as he was his own Boss, and had
                        Nobody to check him up, he might as well Perk up and not overdo the Pining
                        Away. So he kept on Walking until he came to the Temperance Billiard Hall,
                        where he rang in on some Students from the Shorthand College and learned to
                        play Bottle Pool. Once in a while he would give a Quick Start and have an
                        Impulse to get a Move on himself, for the Knowledge that he was as Free as
                        the Air had not thoroughly soaked in on him as yet.
                    In a few Evenings he overcame this Jumpy Feeling and stopped looking at
                        Clocks. He learned to make Follow Shots and play for Position and leave a
                        hard Set-Up for the next Player. When he had Chalk all over his  Clothes and was banging out Three Cushion
                        Shots to keep from being Stuck, he began to feel like One of the Boys.
                    He was in the Clover Pasture for the first time, and he could not refrain
                        from Rolling Over and Kicking Up. He got a lot of new Clothes made at a
                        Tailor Shop, and began to smell of Musk and wore a Pair of Yellow Gloves.
                        Then he bought a Trotter and a Piano-Box Buggy with Cushion Tires, and he
                        was seen walking up and down in front of Millinery Stores. He wore these Hot
                        Stripes on his Shirt, and he had a dove-colored Fedora Hat, such as a fly
                        Bartender wears on Sunday.
                    But he took an overdose of the Elixir of Youth when he had his Hair and
                        Whiskers dyed the color of India Ink. He wanted to make all the Women in
                        Town think he was going on twenty-seven. The Dye began to wear off and the
                        Crop had an Oxldlzed Appearance  and was Gray
                        around the Roots. He was a Fright, but he did n't think so.
                    His Children and the other Relatives worried a little, but they did not
                        Discuss the Matter of having a Guardian appointed until the old Gentleman
                        became all snarled up with a portly Amazon named Blanche. Blanche had been
                        very Careless with her Husbands, and she could not tell, without looking
                        over her Books, where she had left all of them. Her name was a Household
                        Word around the Divorce Courts, and she moved every Month because she could
                        not find a Neighborhood that was Refined enough to suit her.
                    Blanche was a large, creamy Blonde and came of a Swell Family somewhere in
                        the South, but she had forgotten the Name of the Place.
                    When she tightened the Lasso on the Churn Manufacturer and prepared to give
                             him the Strong Arm, one of his Relatives
                        sent out a General Alarm. His Daughter and his two Sons, who were naming
                        Children after him and wondering how the Estate was to be divided, got the
                        Family lawyer, and the whole Posse tried to Split Out the rejuvenated War
                        Horse and the buxom Divorcee.
                    They told him that she was an Adventuress with a Record that covered five or
                        six States, and that all she wanted was his Roll. He said they must be
                        Mistaken, because Blanche had Explained everything and told him in so many
                        Words that he was the first Man she ever Loved right down to the Ground, and
                        he would be just the same to her if he did n't have a Sou Markee.
                    Blanche knew that they were trying to sidetrack the Wedding, so when he came
                        to see her again she sat on his Lap and told him he was free to Abandon her
                        if he thought she  was a Mercenary Girl, but
                        the Minute he walked out of that Door, then nothing short of Prussic Acid
                        would do for her. It was the First Time in her life she had known the
                        Happiness of coming into the Life of a Good and Distinguished Man, and if he
                        cast her aside and treated her as a Playthingwell, there would be a Piece in
                        the Paper, that was all.
                    The Churn Maker might have known that nobody but Sandow could cast aside a
                        Plaything weighing 180, but she had him believing anything when she stroked
                        the Dye. It was a Fierce Line of Talk, but it went with him, for he had been
                        sitting Indoors for thirty-four Years, and what he did not know about the
                        Blanche Type would have filled many a Page. She had him Winging. While he
                        was under the Influence of Knock-Out Drops or something else equally Potent,
                        she spirited  him away in a Hack and had him
                        Married and signing Checks before the Detectives could Locate them.
                    As soon as she had him Roped and Thrown she had to hurry away to visit an
                        Invalid Cousin in Washington. The Sight Drafts began to cut Scallops into
                        his Bank Account, and the Churn Manufacturer found himself Guessing,
                        although he received a Collect Telegram every Hour of the Day, telling him
                        how she longed to see him again and to meet all Drafts and not believe
                        anything he heard.
                    Then his Son got hold of him and began to beat it into him that he had been
                        Played.
                    By the time the Lawyer got a Decree and fixed Blanche with the Hush Money and
                        all the Fees had been settled, the Wallet of the Churn Manufacturer looked
                        as if it had been put through a Wringer. He let his Whiskers  grow out Gray again, and whenever he went out
                        Walking they sent one of the Grandchildren along to take care of him.
                    MORAL: The older the easier.
                    
                
            
        
    
