
     ----CITATION---- 
        Stratton-Porter, Gene, 1863-1924. Music of the Wild: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2433
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                
                
                    Messrs. HODDER & STOUGHTON have pleasure in sending for
                        review the accompanying Work, and will be glad to receive a copy of the
                        notice on its appearance.
                
                    Warwick Square, E.C.
                
                
                    Title
                
                
                    Price
                
                
                    Date of Publication
                
            
            
            
            	Frontispiece
                
                
            
            
            
            	Epigraph
                "All music is what awakens from you when you are reminded
                        by the instruments."Whitman.
            
            
            
            	Epigraph
                
                    THE SONG OF THE RIVER
                
                
                    "The river Sends forth glad sounds, and tripping
                        o'er its bed Of pebbly sands, or leaping down the rocks,
                        Seems, with continuous laughter, to rejoice In its own
                        being."Bryant.
                
            
            
            
                
                    Music of the Wild
                    With Reproductions of the Performers, Their
                        Instruments and Festival Halls
                
                
                    By
                    
                    Gene Stratton-Porter
                
                
                    LONDON
                    HODDER AND STOUGHTON
                    MCMX
                
            
            
            
            	Verso
                
                
                    "It touched the wood bird's folded wing. And
                        said, 'O bird, awake and sing!'"
                        Longfellow.
                
                Copyright 1910, by Jennings and Graham
            
            
            
            
            
            	Advertisement
                
                
                    "Thou art only a gray and sober dove, But thine eye is
                        faith and thy wing is love." Lanier.
                
                
                    Books by
                
                
                    Gene Stratton-Porter
                    WHAT I HAVE DONE WITH BIRDS
                    
                    AT THE FOOT OF THE RAINBOW
                    
                    A GIRL OF THE LIMBERLOST
                    
                    THE SONG OF THE CARDIAL
                    
                    THE MUSIC OF THE WILD
                    
                    BIRDS OF THE BIBLE
                    
                    FRECKLES
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                     Contents
                
                    PART I
                    The Chorus of the Forest, 23
                        
                    PART II
                    Songs of the Fields, 165
                        
                    PART III
                    The Music of the Marsh, 323
                        
                
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    
                     List of Illustrations
                
                    FOREST SPRING, 3
                        
                    THE SONG OF THE RIVER, 5
                        
                    FOREST ROAD, 7
                        
                    RABBIT LEAVING BURROW, 6
                        
                    BROODING DOVE, 9
                        
                    TREE TOAD, 8
                        
                    KATYDID, 11
                        
                    PUBLIC ROAD, 10
                        
                    YOUNG LARKS
                        14
                        
                    YOUNG FLYCATCHERS, 16
                        
                    BIT OF MARSH, 19
                        
                    THE FOREST, 20
                        
                    THE PRIMARY MUSIC
                            CLASS, 22
                        
                    THE ROAD TO THE
                            FOREST, 24
                        
                    BLOODROOT, 28
                        
                    THE GATEWAY, 32
                        
                    
                    THE TREE HARPS,
                            36
                        
                    THE GLOVES THE
                            FOXES WEAR, 40
                        
                    THE LOCUST'S FIDDLE, 44
                        
                    A CROW SOLO, 48
                        
                    THE WHITE CLOUD,
                            52
                        
                    MOTHS OF THE MOON, 56
                        
                    DUSKY FALCON, 60
                        
                    HAWK FACEWHAT
                            DOES HE SAY?
                        64
                        
                    A BEECH TREE HARP, 68
                        
                    PROFESSIONAL "WAILERS," 72
                        
                    PAPAW BLOOM, 76
                        
                    PAPAWS AND SUNSHINE
                        80
                        
                    BANEBERRY AND MAIDENHAIR, 84
                        
                    CRICKET MUSIC, 88
                        
                    EBONYMUS AMERICANUS, 92
                        
                    A GROUND MUSICIAN, 96
                        
                    TALL BLUE BELLFLOWER, 100
                        
                    THE CROWN OF THE FOREST KING, 104
                        
                    BLACK HAW BLOOM,
                            108
                        
                    BLACK HAWS, 112
                        
                    THE TREES, 116
                        
                    YOUNG BATS, 120
                        
                    WHERE THE WOODS
                            BEGIN, 124
                        
                    FROST FLOWERS, 128
                        
                    SYCAMORE, 132
                        
                    THE APPLES OF MAY, 136
                        
                    SMOKE HOUSE, 140
                        
                    THE DESERTED CABIN, 144
                        
                    PHARAOH'S CHICKENS, 148
                        
                    HOP THEE MUSIC,
                            152
                        
                    NIGHT MUSIC OX A FOREST RIVER
                        156
                        
                    OLD LOG, 160
                        
                    
                    KATYDID, 162
                        
                    SWALLOWS, 164
                    DANDELION, 166
                        
                    ONE OF MY FARMS,
                            170
                        
                    FIELD DAISIES, 174
                        
                    A CLOUD MUSICIAN, 178
                        
                    ELECAMPANE, 182
                        
                    THE HOME OF THE HOP TOAD, 186
                        
                    HOP TOAD, 190
                        
                    MOONSEED VINE, 194
                        
                    MY OAT-FIELD, 198
                        
                    "BRANDS OF THE NOONTIDE
                            BEAM," 202
                        
                    THE LANDLORD OF THE FIELDS, 206
                        
                    BEARD TONGUE, 210
                        
                    MOLLY COTTON, 214
                        
                    BURNING BUSH, 218
                        
                    TALL MEADOW RUE,
                            222
                        
                    WILD SAFFRON, 226
                        
                    GREEN PASTURES, 230
                        
                    SHELTERED, WATERED PASTURE, 234
                        
                    BLAZING STAR, 238
                        
                    WILLOWS, 242
                        
                    BUCKEVE BRANCH, 246
                        
                    AN OLD ORCHARD,
                            250
                        
                    MOTHER ROBIN, 254
                        
                    THE ORCHARD MOTH,
                            258
                        
                    ROYALTY IN THE ORCHARD, 262
                        
                    SCARLET HAW BLOOM, 266
                        
                    SCREECH OWL, 270
                        
                    THE SONG OF THE ROAD, 274
                        
                    MALE GOLDFINCH AND YOUNG, 278
                        
                    MILKWEED, 282
                        
                    
                    LIGHTNING RIVEN OAK, 286
                        
                    THE SONG OF THE LIMBERLOST, 290
                        
                    BROODING DOVE, 294
                        
                    ON THE BANKS ON THE WABASH IN WINTER, 298
                        
                    RED BUD, 302
                        
                    KINGFISHER, 306
                        
                    RIVER MALLOWS, 310
                        
                    THE SONG OF THE RIVER, 314
                        
                    COUNTRY ROAD, 319
                        
                    GOD'S FLOWER GARDEN, 320
                        
                    TREE TOADS' DUET, 322
                        
                    THE RESURRECTION, 324
                        
                    THE ROAD TO THE MARSH, 328
                        
                    MARSH LILIES, 332
                        
                    A MARSH GARDEN, 336
                        
                    THE NOSE TWISTER,
                            340
                        
                    THE MOTH OF THE MARSH, 344
                        
                    DRAGON FLY, 351
                        
                    WHITE WATER LILIES, 350
                        
                    MARSH BERGAMOT, 354
                        
                    SILKY CORNEL, 358
                        
                    WILD RICE, 362
                        
                    A PLOVER QUARTETTE, 366
                        
                    A QUEEN MOTHER, 370
                        
                    THE MARSH BROOK,
                            374
                        
                    THE HERALD OF DAWN, 378
                        
                    THE FINCH COLOR
                            SCHEME, 382
                        
                    THE WHITE SIGN OF
                            HOLINESS, 386
                        
                    THE LEAVES, 390
                        
                    THE HELL-DIVER, 394
                        
                    THE BLUE FLAG,
                            398
                        
                    FLYING GOLD, 402
                        
                    
                    THE MARSH ROWDY,
                            406
                        
                    WATER HYACINTHS, 410
                        
                    WHERE THE LOON
                            LAUGHS, 414
                        
                    THE DRUM-MAJOR, 418
                        
                    THE DRUM, 422
                        
                    WHERE MARSH AND
                            FOREST MEET, 426
                        
                    CORDUROY BRIDGE IN MARSH, 428
                        
                    LEAVING THE MARSH, 430
                        
                
                
            
            
            
                
            	Dedication
                To Atiles Fuller Porter
            
            
            
        
        
            
            
            	Music of the Wild
                
                    PART I The Chorus of the Forest
                    
                    
                        
                            "I thought the sparrow's note
                                    from heaven.
                            
                            Singing at dawn on the alder bough;
                            I brought him home, in his nest, at even;
                            He sings the song, but it pleases not now,
                            For I did not bring home the river and sky;
                            He sang to my ear,they sang to my eye."
                        
                        
                            Emerson.
                    
                    
                    
                        THE FOREST
                    
                    
                        
                            "I know where wild things lark and linger,
                            In grovex as gray and grand as Time;
                            I know where God has written poems
                            Too Strong for words or rhyme."
                        
                        
                            Thompson.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THE PRIMARY MUSIC CLASS
                    
                    The Chorus of the Forest
                    SINCE the beginning the forest has been singing its song, but few there are
                        who have eared to learn either the words or the melody. Its chorus differs
                        from that of any other
                            Forest Notes
                         part of the music of nature, and the price that must be paid to
                        learn it is higher. The forest is of such gloomy and forbidding aspect that
                        intimate acquaintance is required in order to learn to love it truly. So
                        only a few peculiar souls, caring for solitude and far places, and oblivious
                        to bodily discomfort, have answered this wildest of calls, and gone to the
                        great song carnival among the trees.
                    The forest always has been compared rightly with a place of worship. Its
                        mighty trees, sometimes appearing as if set in aisles, resemble large
                        pillars, and the canopy formed by their overarching branches provides the
                        subdued light conducive to worship. The dank, pungent air arises  as incense around you. Sunlight, streaming in
                        white shafts through small interstices, suggests candles. Altars are
                        everywhere, carpeted with velvet mosses, embroidered with lichens, and
                        decorated with pale-faced flowers, the eternal symbol of purity and
                        holiness. Its winds forced among overlapping branches sing softly as harps,
                        roar and wail as great organs, and scream and sob as psalters and hautboys.
                        Its insect, bird, and animal life has been cradled to this strange music
                        until voices partake of its tones, so that they harmonize with their tree
                        accompaniment, and all unite in one mighty volume, to create the chorus of
                        the forest.
                    I doubt if any one can enter a temple of worship and not be touched with its
                        import. Neither can one go to primal forests and not feel closer the spirit
                        and essence of the Almighty than anywhere else in nature. In fact, God is in
                        every form of creation; but in the fields and marshes the work of man so has
                        effaced original conditions that he seems to dominate. The forest alone
                        raises a chorus of praise under natural conditions. Here you can meet the
                        Creator face to face, if anywhere on earth. Yet very few come to make His
                        acquaintance.
                    The reason lies in the discomfort: the gloomy, forbidding surroundings. It
                        may be that there yet lingers in the hearts of us a touch of that fear 
                        
                            
                                THE ROAD TO THE FOREST
                            
                            
                                "And the wide forest weaves,
                                To welcome back its playful mates again,
                                A canopy of leaves;
                                And from its darkening shadow floats
                                A gush of trembling notes."Percival.
                            
                        
                         inherited from days when most of the beasts
                        and many of the birds were larger and of greater strength than man, so that
                        existence was a daily battle. Then the forest is ever receding. As we
                        approach, it retreats, until of late years it has become difficult to find,
                        and soon it is threatened with extinction. As yet, it is somewhere, but
                        patience and travel are required to reach it. I found the forest here
                        pictured after a journey by rail, water, and a long road so narrow that it
                        seemed as if every one traveling it went in the morning and returned at
                        night, but none ever passed on the way.
                    Such a narrow little road, and so sandy that it appeared like a white ribbon
                        stretched up gentle hill and down valley! On each side I saw evidence that
                        lately it had been forest itself; else theThe Road to the Forest way would not have been so
                        very narrow, the sides impassable, and bordered with trees so mighty and
                        closely set as to dwarf it to the vanishing point long within the range of
                        vision. The very flowers were unusual, the faint musky perfume creeping out
                        to us, a touch of the forest greeting our approach. The road ran long and
                        straight, and where it ended the work of man ceased and the work of nature
                        began.
                    The forest was surrounded by a garden, where sunlight and warmth encouraged a
                        growth not to be found inside. Here in early spring daintiest  flowers had flourished: anemones and violets.
                        Bloodroot had lifted bloom waxen-pure and white, and its exquisitely cut and
                        veined slivery, blue-green leaves, set on pink coral stems, were yet
                        thrifty. Now there were flowers, fruits, berries, and nuts in a profusion
                        the fields never know, and with few except the insects, birds, butterflies,
                        and squirrels to feast upon them. You could produce a rain of luscious big
                        blackberries by shaking a branch.
                    There were traces of a straggling snake-fence The Forest Fence in one place, on top of which the
                        squirrels romped and played. This could not have extended far, because the
                        impenetrable swamp that soon met the forest stretched from sight.
                    Then the Almighty made the work of man unnecessary by inclosing the forest in
                        a fence of His design, vastly to my liking. First was found a tangle of
                        shrubs that wanted their feet in the damp earth and their heads in the
                        light. Beneath them I stopped to picture tall, blue bellflower, late
                        bluebells, and spiderwort, with its peculiar leafage and bloom. There was
                        the flame of foxfire, the lavender and purple of Joe-Pye weed, ironwort, and
                        asters just beginning to show color, for it was middle August, and late
                        summer bloom met early fall. There were masses of yellow made up of
                        goldenrod beginning to open, marigold, yellow daisies, and cone-flowers.
                    
                    
                        
                            BLOOD-ROOT
                        
                        
                            
                                It has blood in its root and a waxen white face,
                                Coral stems and silver leaves of wonderful grace.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    But the real fence inclosing the forest was a hedge of dogwood, spicebrush,
                        haw, hazel, scrub oak, maple, and elm bushes. At bloom time it must have
                        been outlined in snowy flowers; now nuts and berries were growing, and all
                        were interlaced and made impenetrable by woodbine, wildgrape, clematis, and
                        other stoutly growing vines.
                    At first we could not see the gateway, but after a little searching it was
                        discovered. Once found, it lay clear and open to all. The posts were
                        slender, mastlike trunks shooting skyward; outsideThe Gateway deep golden sunshine you
                        almost thought you could handle as fabric, inside merely a few steps to
                        forest darkness. Near the gateway a tiny tree was waging its battle to reach
                        the sky, and a little farther a dead one was compelled to decay leaning
                        against its fellows, for they were so numerous it could not find space to
                        lie down and rest in peace. This explained at once that there would be no
                        logs. All the trees would lodge in falling, and decay in that position, and
                        their bark and fiber would help to make uncertain walking.
                    At the gate is the place to pause and consider. The forest issues an
                        universal invitation, but few there be who are happy in accepting its
                        hospitality. If you carry a timid heart take it to the fields, where you can
                        see your path before you and familiar sounds fall on your ears. If you carry
                        a sad heart the forest is not for you. Nature places  gloom in its depths, sobs among its branches, cries from its
                        inhabitants. If your heart is blackened with ugly secrets, better bleach
                        them in the healing sunshine of the fields. The soul with a secret is always
                        afraid, and fear was born and has established its hiding place in the
                        forest. You must ignore much personal discomfort and be sure you are free
                        from sadness and fear before you can be at home in the forest.
                    But to all brave, happy hearts I should say, "Go and learn the
                        mighty chorus." Somewhere in The Creator's Gift to Men the depths of
                        the forest you will meet the Creator. The place is the culmination of His
                        plan for men adown the ages, a material thing proving how His work evolves,
                        His real gift to us remaining in natural form. The fields epitomize man.
                        They lay as he made them. They are artificial. They came into existence
                        through the destruction of the forest and the change of natural conditions.
                        They prove how man utilized the gift God gave to him. But in the forest the
                        Almighty is yet housed in His handiwork and lives in His creation.
                    Therefore step out boldly. You are with the Infinite. Earth that bears trees
                        from ten to fourteen feet in circumference, from forty to sixty to the
                        branching, and set almost touching each other, will not allow you to sink
                        far. You are in little danger of meeting anything that is not more
                        frightened at your intrusion than you are at it. 
                        
                            
                                THE GATEWAY
                            
                            
                                "To that cathedral, boundless as our wonder,
                                Whose quenchless lamps the sun and moon
                                    supply;
                                Its choir the winds and waves, its organ thunder,
                                Its dome the sky."Smith.
                            
                        
                         Cutting your path before you means clearing it
                        of living things as well as removing the thicket of undergrowth. A hundred
                        little creatures are fleeing at your every step, and wherever you set foot
                        you kill without your knowledge; for earth, leaves, and mosses are teeming
                        with life. You need only press your ear to the ground and lie still to learn
                        that a volume of sound is rising to heaven from the creeping, crawling,
                        voiceless creatures of earth, the minor tone of all its music.
                    The only way to love the forest is to live in it until you have learned its
                        pathless traved, growth, and inhabitants as you know the fields. You must
                            The Secret and the
                            Visionbegin at the gate and find your road slowly, else you will
                        not hear the Great Secret and see the Compelling Vision. There are trees you
                        never before have seen; flowers and vines the botanists fail to mention;
                        such music as your ears can not hear elsewhere, and never-ending pictures no
                        artist can reproduce with pencil or brush.
                    This forest in the summer of 1907 was a complete jungle. The extremely late
                        spring had delayed all vegetation, and then the prolonged and frequent rains
                        fell during summer heat, forcing everything to unnatural size. Jewel-weed
                        that we were accustomed to see attain a height of two feet along the open
                        road, raised there that season to four, and in the shade of the forest
                        overgrew a tall man; its pale yellow-green stems were like  bushes, and its creamy cornucopias dangled the
                        size of foxglove, freckled with much paler brown than in strong light. The
                        white violets were as large as their cultivated blue relatives, and nodded
                        from stems over a foot in length. Possibly it was because they formed such a
                        small spot of color in that dark place, possibly they were of purer white
                        than flowers of larger growth in stronger light; no matter what the reason,
                        these deep forest violets were the coldest, snowiest white of any flower I
                        ever have seen. They made arrow-head lilies appear pearl white and daisies
                        cream white compared with them.
                    Thinking of this caused me to notice the range of green colors also. The
                        leaves and mosses near earth were the darkest, growing lighter through
                        ferns, vines, bushes, and different tree leaves in never-ending shades. No
                        one could have enumerated all of them. They were more variable and much more
                        numerous than the grays. But in dim forest half-light all color appeared a
                        shade paler than in mere woods.
                    From the all-encompassing volume of sound I endeavored to distinguish the
                        instruments from the performers. The Tree Harps The water, the winds, and the trees
                        combined in a rising and falling accompaniment that never ceased. The
                        insects, birds, and animals were the soloists, most of them singing, while
                        some were performing on instruments. Always there 
                        
                            
                                THE TREE HARPS
                            
                            
                                Knee-deep in the pungent forest,
                                God's Great Secret you may hear;
                                While to eyes of eager longing,
                                The Compelling Vision shines out clear.
                            
                        
                         was the music of my own heart over some
                        wondrous flower or landscape picture, or stirred to join in the chorus
                        around me. The trees were large wind-harps, the trunks the framework, the
                        branches the strings. These trunks always were wrapped in gray, but with
                        each tree a differing shade. There were brown-gray, green-gray, blue-gray,
                        dark-gray, light-gray, every imaginable gray, and many of them so
                        vine-entwined and lichen-decorated it was difficult to tell exactly what
                        color they were.
                    The hickory was the tatterdemalion; no other tree was so rough and ragged in
                        its covering. Oak, elm, walnut, and ash, while deeply indented with the
                        breaks of growth, had more even surface. The poplar, birch, and sycamore had
                        the smoothest bark and showed the most color. The tall, straight birch did
                        gleam "like silver," but to me the sycamore was more
                        beautiful. The largest were of amazing size, whole branches a cream-white
                        with big patches of green, and the rough bark of the trunks was a dirty
                        yellow-gray. These trees always show most color in winter, but I do not know
                        whether they really are brighter then, or whether the absence of the green
                        leaves makes them appear so. Anywhere near the river the trees grew larger,
                        and their uplifted branches caught the air and made louder music, while the
                        unceasing song of the water played a minor accompaniment. These big
                        wind-harps were standing  so close I could
                        focus six of them, the least large enough to be considered unusual in broken
                        wood, on one small photographic plate. Where several sprang from a common
                        base some of them were forced to lean, but the great average grew skyward
                        straight as pines, and in the stillest hour the wind whispered among the
                        interlaced branches, and in a gale roared to drown the voice of the
                        thunder.
                    Little trees beginning their upward struggle to reach the light caused me to
                        feel that they were destroyingThe Abiding Place of the Almighty pictures of great beauty. At
                        last we found an elevation of some height and climbing it, secured the view
                        that awaited us. As soon as we were level with the top of the undergrowth,
                        that was a tangle in the most open spaces, not so dense where the trees grew
                        closer together, it appeared to stretch away endlessly, making a variegated,
                        mossy, green floor that at a little distance seemed sufficiently material to
                        bear our weight. Knowing this to be an illusion, I sent my soul journeying,
                        instead. Crowding everywhere arose the big, vine-entwined tree trunks,
                        stretching from forty to seventy feet to their branching. The cool air of
                        this enclosed space between the bush tops and the tree branches had a spicy
                        fragrance. The carpet of green velvet below and the roof of green branches
                        above formed a dominant emerald note; but it was mellowed with the soft
                        grays of the tree trunks and tinted with the penetrant blue of the 
                        
                            
                                THE GLOVES THE FOXES WEAR
                            
                            
                                "Nestled at this root
                                Is beauty, such as blooms not in the glare
                                Of the broad sun."Bryant.
                            
                        
                         sky, so that the whole was a soft, blue-gray
                        green, the most exquisite sight imaginable. All thought of the world outside
                        vanished. The heart flooded with awe, adoration, and a great and holy peace.
                        Here is the world's most beautiful Cathedral, where the unsurpassed
                        tree-harps accompany the singers in nature's grandest anthem. This
                        is the abiding-place of the Almighty in the forest.
                    When we dared linger no longer and attempted to reach certain trees superb
                        above their fellows, we found that a path must be cut before us for long
                        distances, and then at times, for no apparent reason, we came into open
                        spaces underfoot and thinner branching overhead. These were brown and
                        gray-carpeted with the heaped dead leaves of many seasons, and glorified
                        with flower color, but there were no grasses. It was in places such as these
                        that the joy song of the human heart drowned all other music. On the rich
                        brown floor, against the misty gray-green background, flashed the pale
                        yellow of false foxglove, the loveliest and the typical flower of the
                        forest.
                    The tall, smooth stems were high as my head, the leaves sparse and tender,
                        the bloom large and The
                            Gloves the Foxes Wear profuse, and of warm shades of light-yellow
                        impossible to describe, because they vary with age. The buds are a pure warm
                        yellow, the flower cowslip color on the first day, creamy white on the
                        second, the fallen blooms showering the dark floor  almost white. These are the gloves the foxes wear when they
                        travel the forest softly. Cultivated relatives of the family are not nearly
                        so beautiful as the wild species.
                    I think this is true of the wild flowers, vines, and plants everywhere. Their
                        hothouse relatives do not compare with them. Field and forest flowers are of
                        more delicate color, they are simple and natural, and there is a touch of
                        pure wildness in them akin to a streak in every heart. Of late people have
                        been realizing this, and they have made efforts, not always agreeable to the
                        plants, to remove and set them around houses and in gardens. Such flowers
                        usually die a lingering death because they can not survive out of their
                        element. The foxglove enters a more vigorous protest than any. It is as if
                        the old mother of the family feared that when we saw her glorious
                        shade-children we would steal them from their damp, dark home; and so, with
                        the cunning of her namesakes, the foxes, she taught all her family to reach
                        down and find the roots of surrounding trees, twine around them, and grow
                        fast, until they became veritable parasites and not only clung for
                        protection, but to suck life, so that they quickly withered and died if torn
                        away. The effort to transplant foxglove always reminds me of an attempt to
                        remove old people who have lived long on one spot and sent the roots of
                        their affections clinging around things they 
                        
                            
                                THE LOCUST'S FIDDLE
                            
                            
                                The locust fiddles on his shining wings,
                                The very same song that every bird sings,
                                Chants of praise for the life they know,
                                Notes of ten thousand years ago.
                            
                        
                         love. Then some change comes, and an effort is
                        made to remove them to a different location and atmosphere. They end the
                        same as deep forest flowers brought into the strong light of yard and
                        garden; only as a rule people pine and die more quickly.
                    A few bees humming around the foxglove set me to watching for insect
                        musicians. The pale flowers of deep forest were not attractive as wasThe Locust's
                            Fiddle the growth outside. There was only an occasional
                        butterfly. But there were millions of other insects singing everywhere
                        around us, and the leaders were the locusts. Sometimes they flew so close,
                        making music on wing, that we dodged and our ears rang. We caught several
                        and examined them, and induced one to pose for us on a locust tree. They are
                        an inch and a half in length, a rare green color with brown markings, and
                        have large eyes, a stout, sharp tongue, silvery white legs, and long
                        wingshields, appearing as if cut from thinnest isinglass, the shorter true
                        wing beneath.
                    These wingshields are divided into small sections by veins that hold the
                        transparent parts securely, and the outer edge has a stout rim. Using these
                        rims for their strings, the crisp space for sounding-boards, and the femur
                        of the hind legs for bows, the locust amazed us by not singing at all, for
                        he fiddled away gayly as he led the insect orchestra. As far as we could
                        hear through the  forest his musicians followed
                        his lead unceasingly, their notes rising and falling in volume, and they
                        even played in flight. I could not see how they flew, and fiddled on the
                        wingshields at the same time, but repeatedly I saw them do it.
                    Watching above me to try to learn how this music of flight was made, I forgot
                        the locusts and began considering the roof of the forest. The branches
                        lapped and interlaced so closely that I felt, if I had power to walk
                        inverted like a fly, I could cross them as a floor. There was constant music
                        up there, and the dominant note was the crow's, while the sweetest
                        was the wood pewee's. There were many places where in the stout
                        branching of tall trees the crows had built a sitting-room of a bushel of
                        coarse twigs and lined it with finer material. Now all the families had
                        moved out and gone picnicking among the trees.
                    None of them evinced retiring dispositions. They appeared alike at that
                        height, and all I could tellA
                            Crow Solo of them was that they were crows. Their music was
                        constant and, where undisturbed by our presence, of most interesting
                        character. I could distinguish three distinct calls. They frequently uttered
                        a gutteral croak that seemed to translate "All right!"
                        Then there was a sharp, vehement "Caw! Caw! Caw!" warning
                        those of the family farther away of the fact that there was something
                        unusual in the forest. It was used at a time and 
                        
                            
                                A CROW SOLO
                            
                            
                                "The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark
                                When neither is attended; and I think
                                The nightingale. if she should sing by day.
                                When every goose is cackling, would be thought
                                No better a musician than the wren."
                            
                            Shakespeare.
                        
                         in the manner of a human being crying,
                        "Look out! Some one is coming!" Then there was a
                        syllabicated cry, consisting of five notes, that was their longest utterance
                        and was delivered with tucked tail, half-lifted wings, and bobbing head, as
                        if to make the speech impressive by gesture as well as sentiment. It
                        scarcely would do to write of this production as a song, perhaps it might be
                        called a recitative, to give it a little musical color. In very truth it
                        resembled plain conversation and was used at such times and in such manner
                        as to lead me to believe that passing crows were remarking to their friends:
                        "Everything is all right with me. How goes life with
                        you?"
                    I am rather fond of crows. They are so loving to each other that they arouse
                        sentiment in my breast. I believe they pair for life, and both of them
                        defend their nests and young with reckless bravery. Good qualities, surely!
                        They are knowing birds and early learn to distinguish a hoe from a gun. When
                        they find you without firearms they become impudent and inquisitive, and
                        allow you to approach very close. There is proof that they are individual
                        birds because they are used constantly as the basis of comparison by men who
                        call each other "wise as a crow," "black as a
                        crow," "as sly," and "as
                        cunning."
                    Whether crows are all these things in freedom would be difficult to prove,
                        since they scarcely ever  nest at a height of
                        less than thirty-five feet, and from that up to fifty. At that distance it
                        is not possible that male and female or different pairs can be told apart
                        without strong glasses; where there is one family there are sure to be
                        others close, and no matter how impudent a single crow may be when you are
                        without a gun and meet him foraging in your fields, he is a wary bird when
                        you approach his nest.
                    In captivity crows have been known to do many peculiar things of their own
                        initiative, such as hiding food"Black as a Crow" given them
                        when they are not hungry, for use at another time, or rubbing against a
                        stone a caterpillar to free it from spines. They can be taught to talk by
                        splitting the tips of their tongues, and can repeat from two to six words
                        distinctly and at appropriate times. In life they never are quite so black
                        as they are painted, for the neck and back feathers have beautiful purplish
                        bronze tints in strong light. These crows appeared to have a sense of humor,
                        for when we left the forest without having interfered with them they seemed
                        to imagine they had vanquished us and followed for a distance, crying
                        something that sounded much more like, "Haw! Haw! Haw!"
                        than "Caw!"
                    I never have made an exhaustive study of crows, but I have penetrated their
                        life history somewhat, enough to get all that can be learned by seeing and
                        hearing; and that, come to think of it, 
                        
                            
                                THE WHITE CLOUD
                            
                            
                                Through the forest's darkening emerald,
                                In the murky, pungent gloom,
                                Shines a cloud of wondrous whiteness,
                                Where He sets the dog-wood bloom.
                            
                        
                         is all I want. In my wanderings afield I often
                        find ornithologists killing and dissecting birds, botanists uprooting and
                        classifying flowers, and lepidopteristsThe Beauty and Song of Existence running pins
                        through moths yet struggling; each worker blind and deaf to everything save
                        his own specialty, and delving in that as if life depended, as perhaps it
                        does, on the amount of havoc and extermination wrought. Whenever I come
                        across a scientist plying his trade I am always so happy and content to be
                        merely a naturelover, satisfied with what I can see, hear, and record with
                        my cameras. Such wonders are lost by specializing on one subject to the
                        exclusion of all else. No doubt it is necessary for some one to do this
                        work, but I am so glad it is not my calling. Life has such varying sights
                        and songs for the one who goes afield with senses alive to everything. I am
                        positive I hear and see as much as any scientist can on the outside of
                        objects, for I have recorded with my cameras a complete life history of many
                        birds no one else ever photographed, and to prove it I can reproduce the
                        pictures for the delight of humanity. Who ever was exhilarated by seeing a
                        scientist measure the intestines and count the bones of any bird? I have
                        sent the botanical masters flowers and vines not yet incorporated in their
                        books, but I was very careful to confine myself to the least specimen that
                        would serve their purpose. I have hatched the eggs, raised the caterpillars,
                             wintered the cocoons, and had the rarest
                        moth of our country emerge beside my pillow, and sent by the hundred the
                        eggs of mated pairs to scientific men who lacked personal experience with
                        the species. I am not missing anything, and what I get is the palpitant
                        beauty and pulsing song of existence. The happy, care-free method is to go
                        to the forest in early spring, and with senses alive to everything and
                        deliberately follow the changes of the season.
                    One of the first sights to attract the attention will proclaim itself from
                        afar: the flowering of the dogwood.The Excuse of Beauty Sometimes there is a real
                        tree in undisturbed forest, lifting to the light a white head that makes a
                        point of splendor. The bloom is a peculiar thing, resembling poinsettia in
                        that the showy spathes, commonly called flowers, are merely a decoration
                        surrounding the true bloom, which is small and insignificant. In reality
                        what appears to be white flower petals are just wrapping that all winter has
                        screened the little flower bud from frost and storm, and the small dent in
                        the top of each leaf is where the very tip blighted in severe weather. After
                        a wonderful spring exhibition the dogwood ceases to attract attention and
                        resembles its surroundings until fall. Then its leaves begin to color early
                        and outdo almost all others in vivid tints, added to which are the ripened
                        berries of bright Chinese-red. Dogwood is not rare, and 
                        
                            
                                MOTHS OF THE MOON
                            
                            
                                T is Nature's greatest secret, told as a priceless
                                    boon.
                                In the forest I heard the night moth whispering to the
                                    moon:
                                "Lend thy light for my courting, if thrice in thy
                                    glory I fly,
                                Then, from estatic loving, of joy will I gladly
                                    die."
                            
                        
                         beauty is the excuse for its being, in this
                        book at least. Really it seems as if that might be its best reason for
                        appearing in the forest as well.
                    The big delicate moth of deep wood must enter on the same ground, for no
                        other among wood folk is so quiet. The only music it could be said to
                            makeThe Moth of the
                            Moon is the chorus of delighted exclamation that greets its every
                        appearance before humanity; music by proxy, as it were, for the moth is the
                        stillest creature. The exercising imago, walled in its cocoon, among the
                        leaves of earth, makes more sound than the emerged moth. There is a faint
                        noise of tearing as the inner case is broken and the tough cocoon cut for
                        emergence. Once in the air and light, if those exquisite wings make a sound
                        it is too faint for mortal ears to hear.
                    June is the time for appreciative people to sing in praise of the moths, but
                        sometimes they are double-brooded and specimens exact their share of worship
                        in August, as did the beautiful pair I found clinging to a walnut tree in
                        the forest. No other moth is so exquisitely shaped or of such delicate
                        shades. The female is a little larger, her antennae are narrower, and her
                        colors paler than the male's. The white violet is not of purer
                        white than his body; his crisp, long-trailed wings of a bluish pale-green,
                        faintly edged with light yellow and set with small transparent markings, and
                        his legs and feet and the heavy fore-rib of the front wings are  lavender. He was delicate and fragile as the
                        bloom of a tropical orchid, and reminded me of one as he lightly hung to the
                        rough walnut bark. They were only that day emerged, and their wings were not
                        yet hardened sufficiently to bear their weight, so they clung wherever I
                        placed them and posed in the most obliging manner. But the guide and I made
                        all the music.
                    While I worked, over my head, all above the forest, and around the outskirts
                        sailed the beautifulFalcon
                            Music and graceful little dusky falcons. No charge of quietude
                        can be made against them; they are really noisy, which can not be said of
                        great hawks. Falcons are very handsome, and parade their beauty as if they
                        realized it. They are by far the best-dressed members of the hawk family.
                        The very light color of their breasts is delicately shaded, as is the bronze
                        of their backs. Their cheek feathers are white to a narrow line above the
                        eyes, and crossed by two parallel lines of black. They can erect a small
                        crest, which is tinted with dull blue, and their long, graceful wing and
                        tail feathers are tipped with white. Their beaks have the hawklike curved
                        point for tearing. Their unusually large eyes wear a soft expression, giving
                        to them a wise appearance. They attack small birds occasionally, but live
                        mostly on field mice, moles, grasshoppers, and moths; so they are in
                        evidence in the fields, and people are familiar with them. They like to
                        watch 
                        
                            
                                DUSKY FALCON
                            
                            
                                "I know a falcon swift and peerless
                                As e'er was cradled in the pine;
                                No bird had ever eye so fearless,
                                Or wing so strong as this of
                                    mine."
                            
                            Lowell.
                        
                         grain fields from the vantage of a telephone
                        wire, and their graceful downward sweep when they sight prey is a beautiful
                        thing to see.
                    They nest in hollow trees and bring off broods of five and six young, from
                        their first feathering closely resembling the elders. These young are very
                        social and make charming pets, becoming wholly domesticated in a few days.
                        If not exactly the same, they are very similar to the falcons used by royal
                        British women in the sport of hawking, and the small birds that we see in
                        old prints and paintings perching on gauntlet or saddle-pommel must have
                        been great pets with their owners. They are the musicians of the hawk and
                        falcon families and have all their relatives talked into almost complete
                        silence. "Ka-tic, a-tic, a-tic!" they cry as they dash
                        after moth or grasshopper, millions of which one pair will take from a field
                        in a season, making them a great blessing to a farmer. Fullfed and happy
                        they swing on the ever-present telephone wire and repeatedly sing in a
                        liquid, running measure entitled to be classed as very good music,
                        "Tilly, tilly, tilly!"
                    By no stretch of imagination could the big hawks be coupled with melody. They
                        are the kings of the treetops, but they use a sign language that all other
                        birds readily translate. Their home in large trees is often founded on a
                        crow's last year's nest. They use signals in courting,
                        caress  their young tenderly, and fearlessly
                        attack anything threatening danger to them. So long as they are
                            unmolestedA Battle
                            Cry and happy they are silent: a strange reversal of the law of
                        music in birdland. Almost without exception other birds sing in bubbling
                        ecstasy when they are happy, and mope in silence, broken only by a few
                        pathetic notes of wailing, when in trouble.
                    The hawk gives warning when angry by a strident hiss, much like a vulture or
                        eagle. When he really makes an attack, for the purpose of vanquishing an
                        enemy, comes his one musical effort. His battle-hymn is a hair-raising
                        scream: shrill, loud, and the wildest note of the forest. Small birds flee
                        from it in utter consternation, and no doubt great ones quail, even if they
                        remain to fight. Never a hawk-scream shivers through the treetops but a
                        bedlam of crow-calls answer, for they are sworn enemies. Of course the hawk
                        by reason of greater strength and size must win in every battle it wages,
                        but there is nothing to prevent crows from seeing how closely they can skim
                        danger and raising all the excitement possible.
                    No bird of field or forest has the force of expression to be found on the
                        face of a big hawk. There is character, dignity, defiance, and savagery
                        combined. The eagle has a wicked, fierce appearance, and I never have seen
                        its face express anything else. I can find no better terms than
                        "dignity" 
                        
                            
                                WHAT DOES HE SAY?
                            
                            
                                "I shall not ask Jean Jacques Rousseau
                                If birds confabulate or no.
                                'T is clear that they were always able
                                To hold discourseat least in fable."
                            
                            Cowper.
                        
                         and "defiance" to portray my
                        conception of a hawk's facial expression, and that is not very
                        clear. Perhaps what I am striving to convey is the idea that some things
                        might be too cruel for the hawk; the eagle appears inexorable. If he has any
                        mercy it is never indicated in his face. The hawk suggests to the mind that
                        he might at least consider mercy. Then in poise of flight
                        that carries him across the heavens by the hour without perceptible wing
                        motion he is the equal of the eagle and vulture, and in keenness of vision
                        he slightly outclasses them. Perhaps if we had been compelled to strain our
                        eyes for generations, from his heights, in order to find our food, we would
                        develop sight as far-reaching as his.
                    Serenely sailing the skies, the hawk suddenly comes darting earthward like a
                        down-aimed arrow, in a marvelous exhibition of flight, and arises withHawk Protection a
                        snake, rabbit, or bird in its claws, proving a range of vision far beyond
                        ours. In his wonderful powers of flight and sight, in his grace and royal
                        bearing, in the dignity of his silence, and the strength of his cry, he is
                        one of the finest birds that live, and the most beneficial to us. For while
                        he occasionally takes a young chicken that we intended to eat, his steady
                        diet is snakes, moles, field mice, and grasshoppers, all of which constantly
                        menace the land owner.
                    But in the evolution of nature, that seems to 
                        provide for even minutest details, the hawk has his place and his purpose.
                        In order that he may not become a burden when he levies upon us, he is given
                        only two nestlings, while we raise chickens by the hundred; and the game
                        birds upon which he preys as a rule number from fifteen to twenty in a
                        brood, like quail, rail, and ducks. There is further to be considered that a
                        warning of the hawk's descent is almost universal in field and
                        forest. If the scratching hen does not see him, a nearby cock does; and if
                        wild mothers are busy searching for food there is the bluejay to tell on
                        him, and so the strongest of his prey take to cover and he gets only the
                        weakling, that is best removed from the brood for the sake of the health of
                        those remaining or of young it might raise.
                    There is not much to be said for hawk music, yet the voice of the forest
                        would lose the charm of itsThe Wildest Note of the Forest wildest note were this great bird
                        extinct, and it is because it is wild and different from sounds of every day
                        that we love it. Then, as a picture seen from afar, the forest never would
                        be complete without these birds of tireless wing hanging over it and
                        reigning upon their thrones of air. So I hope earnest consideration will be
                        given these points in favor of the royal bird before another of its kind is
                        dropped from its high estate.
                    Up where the hawk chants his battle-hymn, the crow chuckles, and the pewee
                        wails, outlined clearly 
                        
                            
                                A BEECH TREE HARP
                            
                            
                                "you scarce would start,
                                If from a beech's heart
                                A blue-eyed Dryad, stepping forth, should say,
                                'Behold me! I am
                                    May!'"Timrod.
                            
                        
                         against the sky could be seen the
                        finely-toothed cutting and waxy gold-green leaf that only could mean beech,
                        and I marveled. Could beech branches be waving there? That tree of low habit
                        and spreading limb!A
                            Beech-Tree Harp I called my guide's attention to it, and
                        he made a road, and then cleared space for me to focus. Where trees were so
                        numerous it was impossible to get away far enough to include the entire
                        subject. This mighty wind instrument of the forest was fourteen feet in
                        circumference and fifty feet to the branching. We could secure no leaves,
                        but they were large and appeared especially waxy. The trunk was the most
                        beautiful I ever have seen save the purple beeches of Southern Indiana.
                        Those are low, of widely-spreading branch, and their trunks are like
                        purplish-gray moleskin. This forest beech had patches of moleskin, then gray
                        and green spaces, the forerunners of lichens, and then the lichens
                        themselves in big circles with exquisite gradations of gray, white, and
                        green colors.
                    At its base grew a fern with fronds two feet long, and the mottled brown
                        carpet spread beneath it was deep layers of dead leaves. Then we began to
                        watch for its kindred through the forest, and found many, giants all of
                        them. One thing we noted in particular. Not a beech ever leaned or curved,
                        but in a noble column all of them aspired straight toward heaven, and among
                        their stiff,  widely-spreading branches the
                        wind sang in louder cadence than where limbs were more closely placed and of
                        heavier leafage.
                    There were maples of even greater circumference and height, but many of them
                        leaned and twisted. Their bark was not so beautiful, and their leaves not of
                        such fine texture, but they were more artistically cut; and as these trees
                        flourished and grew old in this damp place, the lichens had covered them
                        almost entirely, and so they were gay with gray and green. It is peculiar
                        how in the forest one thing seems to lead to or bear some relation to
                        another. In examining the maples to see how far out the large branches the
                        lichens extended, I noticed what I easily might have mistaken for a
                        knot-hole if previous experience had not taught me to recognize the nest of
                        the distinctive bird of the forest; a nest that is a miracle, from which
                        come birds to match it, and they sing a song that all ornithologists agree
                        almost breaks the heart with its sadness.
                    The professional "wailer" of the forest is the wood pewee;
                        and I should like to engage him to "wail" at my funeral, I
                        would ask no finer music.A
                            Professional "Wailer" He is just a small
                        olive-gray bird, touched with brown, his habitat high among the big crows,
                        owls, and hawks, that comparatively must appear larger to him than an
                        elephant does to us. Because he is evolved in God's great scheme of
                        things to work 
                        
                            
                                PROFESSIONAL "WAILERS"
                            
                            
                                "Long drawn and clear its closes were
                                As if the hand of music through
                                The sombre robe of silence drew
                                A thread of golden gossamer;
                                So pure a flute the fairry blew.
                                Like beggared princes of the wood,
                                In silver rags the birches stood;
                                The hemlocks, lordly counselors,
                                Were dumb; the sturdy servitors,
                                In beechen jackets patched and grap,
                                Seemed waiting spellbound all the dap
                                That low, entrancing note to hear,
                                'Pe-wee! pe-wee! peer!'"
                            
                            Trowbridge.
                        
                         among the treetops he is provided with wisdom
                        and preculiarly protected by nature. His coat is the color of bark, his
                        location is a lichen-covered limb, his nest a small flat bowl of finest
                        twigs, grass-lined, and shaped to reproduce exactly the knots on the trees
                        around it, and then covered with lichens to match those closest. This
                        covering is deftly bound with spider webs passing under the limb and around
                        the nest securely. When the young emerge and feather, like separate seeds of
                        the globe of a dandelion is the down that covers them, and in their nest or
                        on the limb beside it, behold! they appear as lichens too. We noticed how
                        inconspicuously colored the elders were, how they matched the treetops and
                        the nest some time deserted, and how deft they were at twisting and turning
                        on wingreal acrobats,so that no other birds of field or forest are better
                        protected or so sure to bring off a brood in safety.
                    Then why this very mournful music recorded by every ornithologist who ever
                        wrote of them? The answer is, there is no sadness in their song. In all of a
                        long and varied acquaintance with them I have found them particularly jolly
                        small birds, safe above the average, much closer heaven than any other of
                        their size. They are not of doleful disposition, and no inconsolable grief
                        is theirs. They are true children of the forest, and in its solemn silences,
                        in the slow wail of its winds, in  the sucking
                        sobs of its rocking branches they have composed a song in harmony with their
                        surroundings; but to our ears this music contains the notes with which we
                        express solitude, silence, and heartbreak.
                    But the pewee knows nothing of this. All day he sings, and all
                            of the season, which proves him a particularly happy bird, not
                        dependent upon the intoxication of the mating fever or encouraging a
                        brooding mate with his notes.True Forest Notes He sings as the poet, because there is an
                        all-the-time song in his heart. In the great forest his notes fell to us
                        slowly and serenely; why should he bubble and gurgle like a bobolink? He of
                        the majesty and solitude of the forest! He of the high choir in the house of
                        the Almighty! Long-drawn, clear, aching with melody, through the solemn
                        silence of the forest, high above you comes his
                        "Pee-a-wee," and just when you are wondering if that is
                        all, he adds, "Peer!" It is rather a stretch of the
                        imagination to call these notes a song; cry would seem closer, but they are
                        the sustained utterance of the bird. His variations consist in repetition,
                        with different modulation and in unequal measure.
                    I could detect that in the morning he hastened a little, as if the business
                        of life were too pressing for the usual wait between notes. At noon, when
                        all other birds were drowsy with heat and scarcely a song was heard, he
                        broke the silence; and in the 
                        
                            
                                PAPAW BLOOM
                            
                            
                                He who breathes the enchanted air,
                                With eyes aflame and cheeks aglow,
                                Knows that earth holds no spot so fair
                                As where the papaw lilies blow.
                            
                        
                         evening, when others were singing vespers, he
                        stood on tiptoes, and reaching his limit for his highest note with which to
                        surpass them, in a positively lazy manner slid sobbingly down the scale to
                        his last clear utterance. At the instant we misguided mortals were
                        shuddering over the heartbreak in these wailing, long-drawn notes the little
                        rascal was turning somersaults in the air, darting here and there after a
                        fly, his sharp mandibles clipping together when he missed until the sound
                        came to us on the ground far below. He was the happiest little creature of
                        song and dance that wore a feathered coat.
                    Beside his tree grew another that made me wonder why, since from the
                        inception of art decorators, designers, and painters have gone to the forest
                        for copy, they did not use this.Art in the Forest From the frequency with which
                        our artists work over designs of fern, violet, goldenrod, and sweet brier,
                        one might be forgiven the supposition that with these, material was
                        exhausted. I think the truth is that these good folk kept to the fence or
                        turned back at the gateway, and never penetrated to the heart of the forest.
                        Things infinitely more beautiful than those that have been used are waiting
                        to be discovered and familiarized. Finding almost a tree for size ladened
                        with velvety big green fruit made me think of studies of papaw bloom that I
                        had made early in the season.
                    
                    Botanists and farmers may know the flower; do others? And does some one ask
                        what it has to do with music? I am coming to that. Early in the season, when
                        the smooth gray-green stems are pulsing with sap, when the tender
                        yellow-green leaves are just unsheathing and not over an inch in length, the
                        papaw lilies blow. I never heard any one else call them lilies, but I will
                        persist in it; they are lilies, and most exquisite ones. The flowers hang
                        lily fashion, their petals are thick, of velvety lily texture, and look at
                        their formation! Those outside are beautifully veined and curled, of the
                        loveliest wine-red; the inside smaller, slightly lighter in color, and set
                        across the meeting of the outer ones, and a yellow-green pistil, pollen
                        dusted in the heart.
                    I can say almost positively that Japan does not produce this tree. If she
                        did, long ago her artists would have seized upon its magnificent
                        possibilities for decoration. The height of simplicity so loved by them can
                        be found in the smooth stems, the long, tender golden leaves, and the
                        tinkling wine-colored lilies nodding in clusters over bushes so large that,
                        where undisturbed in the forest, they attain the size of trees. Sometimes
                        the flowers hang singly, sometimes in pairs, and most often from four to six
                        grow in a head, so that by crowding their faces are upturned, and their full
                        beauty displayed in wondrous fashion. They are of sweet 
                        
                            
                                PAPAWS AND SUNSHINE
                            
                            
                                Leaf hidden are the frosty green papaws,
                                In their jackets snugly rolled,
                                But the sun sifts down til he finds them,
                                And mellows their hearts to gold.
                            
                        
                         odor, and the bees come swarming around them,
                        with their low, bumbling, humming music, from early morning until dark. If
                        only I were a poet, how glad I would be to transcribe for them the song that
                        they awake in my heart!
                    Its name should be, "Where the Papaw Lilies Blow." I would
                        tinge the sky with the purple of red bud, fill the air with the golden haze
                        of tree bloom, and perfume it with the subtle odor of tree pollen.The Song of the Lilies
                        In deep shadow the earth should lie covered with a crust of late snow, and
                        in the sun with the whiter snow of bloodroot bloom. The velvety
                        maroon-colored lilies should distil their perfume as the wind rocked them,
                        and among the branches the slender, graceful, bronze-backed cuckoo should
                        prophesy April showers as he searched for food. From a nearby pool with
                        crazy laughter a flock of loons that had paused in migration for a drink
                        should arise from the water and plow the northward air with their sharp
                        beaks; and an opossum should nose among the leaves for frozen persimmons.
                        And he who breathed this enchanted air and saw these things should learn
                        that in all nature he would find no greater treat than to linger where the
                        papaw lilies blow. I offer this gratis to any one who has the genius to use
                        it rightly.
                    With the falling of the flowers the artistic possibility of the plant only
                        begins, for there follow large leaves of varied shadings, prominently veined
                             and finely shaped for conventionalizing,
                        and in clusters beneath them the papaws, that must be seen to know how
                        beautiful they are. Five and six to a cluster they hang, when young the skin
                        a cold blue-green; with ripeness they take on a pale yellow shading, and the
                        "bloom" of the fruit becomes like frosted velvet. The pulp
                        is bright yellow and good to eat if you are fond of rich sweets. The seeds
                        are large, black, and resemble those of the melon. If not gathered, the
                        fruit hangs until winter, turns to the purple wine color of ripe Concord
                        grapes, falls to the ground, and in the spring the seeds sprout and produce
                        new plants.
                    Sometimes when taking pictures I get more than I intend.A Ray of Sunshine In making this
                        study of papaw leaves and fruit a ray of sunshine crept through an
                        interstice of the forest and fell across my subject. So long as the picture
                        lasts the sunbeam lives. A.lens loves bright colors and sets them on a
                        photographic plate with peculiar brilliancy. It would be a fine thing if we
                        could get a focus on life's sunshine and reproduce it indelibly on
                        our hearts as stored warmth for gray days, just as the lens caught this ray
                        of light streaming across the face of the papaw study. The truth is we do
                        not appreciate the sunshine we have in our lives. Even more, many of us
                        never know that we are having bright days until we are plunged into the
                        depths of trouble and darkness; and when we grope 
                        
                            
                                BANEBERRY AND MAIDENHAIR
                            
                            
                                Baneberry white and tall maidenhair,
                                Mingled their leaves in the perfumed air,
                                Teaching a lesson worthy of thought,
                                For the love of God was what they taught.
                            
                        
                         to find our way, and struggle to realize our
                        condition, we suddenly learn that our sunshine is gone and life is gray
                        monotony.
                    The largest open space we found underfoot was on the side of a hill or
                        incline facing east.Baneberry and Maidenhair The trees appeared quite as large and
                        closely set, but for some reason the earth was not covered with shrubs and
                        bushes, as was the rule. We had found two places where trees had been cut so
                        long ago that the decayed stumps crumbled at a touch, and there was a third
                        not as old. Close beside it I found beauty to gladden the heart of musician,
                        poet, or painter. It began with a white baneberry of marvelous grace. The
                        plant was all of three and a half feet in height, a smooth stem, upright as
                        the trees around it, and, like them, branching. Its finely cut, lacy leaves,
                        beautifully veined and notched, grew in clusters of three. On a single stem,
                        borne high above the leaves, shone a big bunch of china-white berries, three
                        dozen by count; the stems red, each berry having a purple-black eye-spot.
                        Close by grew a near relative, very similar except that its berries were
                        red. The flowers of both are a pyramidal cluster made up of a mass of small
                        white blooms.
                    Now just in front of the baneberry grew the most graceful of all ferns, the
                        plumy maidenhair, and because of this wet season it had attained unusual
                        size for our climate. On wiry two-foot stems 
                        waved leaves a foot and a half across. I was accustomed to stems of from six
                        to nine inches in length and leaves of eight-inch diameter. As a finishing
                        touch, beneath the fern, with fuzzy leaf of peculiar shape that could not be
                        called round because it was wider than long, and deeply cut where the stem
                        joined, and with bell-shaped, maroon-colored cup blooming so close the root
                        that I had to remove the dry leaves to earth to find the flower, grew wild
                        ginger. I examined this particularly because I know a writer who has the
                        hardihood to compare this grimy little burrower of the soil with papaw
                        bloom, that has six artistically cut petals, each of which is of much richer
                        color and texture, and large enough to make a perfect ginger flower.
                    In removing dry leaves around the ferns and digging out the ginger I
                        unearthed a music-box, and learned a lesson.The Song of the Cricket I always had thought the
                        cricket a sort of domesticated insect, beginning with "The Cricket
                        on the Hearth" and ending with one that sang for the greater part
                        of last winter in our basement. A few weeks earlier I had learned in an oat
                        field many miles away that there were more big black crickets under an oat
                        sheaf where it lay in a low, damp place than I ever had seen elsewhere in
                        all my field work. Now the forest taught me that the cricket in my cabin was
                        a prisoner, lost from home and friends, and 
                        
                            
                                CRICKET MUSIC
                            
                            
                                "The cricket tells straight on his simple
                                    thoughtNay,
                                Nay, 't is the cricket's way of being
                                    still."
                            
                            Lanler.
                        >  those beneath the oats scouts
                        searching for food; the army was around decaying wood and below deep layers
                        of leaves on the floor of the forest.
                    In a glittering black mass they poured out by the thousand when disturbed;
                        some in their haste leaped upon the backs of those in front and ran over
                        them. Of course, I know there are differing species of the cricket family
                        that choose suitable locations. I am merely stating that the largest, most
                        prosperous branch in the whole world lives in the forest.
                    When I made this study grasshoppers sang around the fence, and many strayed
                        to the interior, so that their notes came almost constantly; but by close
                        listening you could distinguish fractions of a second when their voices were
                        silent. Many katy-dids homed there and boasted much of the prowess of their
                        ancestors. Locusts answered each other in rapid succession, but you could
                        separate the call from the answer. To the "Chirr-r-r-r-r!"
                        of the crickets there was no beginning and never the hint of an ending.
                        Millions of these shining, black-coated little musicians sang in concert and
                        unceasingly. There was no question but their voices formed the dominant
                        insect note of the forest.
                    Crickets are not compatible with good housekeeping because they cut fabries.
                        But of all inseets people tolerate them most. One little piece  of exquisite writing has made life easier for
                        the family. A cricket walks unharmed where a heavy foot crushes a
                        grasshopper or locust. The cricket on one hearth has made a welcome for all
                        crickets, and the home boasting one that will sing late in the season feels
                        that it has materialized evidence of good cheer.The Cricket on my Hearth I know how
                        vainglorious we were over a cabin cricket that once homed with us, how all
                        other sound ceased when he began to sing, and how we never failed to call
                        the attention of visitors to him, and how disappointed we were if he did not
                        perform when we were expecting he would. A cricket makes fine, cheery music,
                        the natural accompaniment to the snapping crackle of an open wood-fire,
                        which is the only rational source of heat in a real home. I could write a
                        larger book than this on fire forms, flame colors, and the different tints
                        of smoke ascending from logs of various trees as they burn in my fireplace.
                        If my dreams as I watch the flames materialized on my library shelves
                        instead of ascending the chimney with the smoke, no one would produce so
                        many fine volumes as I. The cricket is so a part of the dreams that a tone
                        of his happy song should run through all of them.
                    The wings are the musical instruments, and with these crickets obtain so
                        closely to the sound of a voice that people always speak and write of them
                        as "singing," though they really are instrumental 
                        
                            
                                EBONYMUS AMERICANUS
                            
                            
                                "This is not solitude: 't is but to
                                    hold
                                Converse with nature's charms, and view her stores
                                    unrolled."
                            
                            Byron.
                        
                         performers, the same as the grasshopper,
                        locust, and katy-did.
                    These wings are attached back of the shoulders and are so short they cover
                        not more than the middle third of the body. They are so very small, music
                        must be their greatest use. I do not believe they would bear the weight of
                        the insects in flight, but by spreading and beating them they might assist
                        in long leaps. The remainder of their anatomy is complicated. Our cabin
                        cricket was smaller and lighter brown than its big, forest relatives, but
                        they appeared quite similar. Their outer covering encases them as armor.
                        Their eyes are prominent and glittering, and help to give them a cheerful,
                        alert appearance. I noticed that when traveling undisturbed they lightly
                        touched objects before them with their long hair-fine antennae as if feeling
                        their way. On each side of the front section of the bodies are a series of
                        three short legs used for walking, and just back of these the large, long
                        leg for leaping.
                    On the floor, pottering over cricket history, close to the fence, where the
                        light was strong, I made a new acquaintance. Botanists may know it well, but
                        I am unable to place it in any of many valuable works I own. This may be
                        because I found it in the fall, at berry-bearing time, and they would
                        describe it in bloom. But I have small trouble in identifying other plants
                        at any season.  No nature-lover has described
                        this as I found it, and no decorator has conventionalized it; yet surely the
                        berries stand close the head of the beauty class. Brilliant color of
                        Chinese-red and coral-pink attracted me, and on investigation I found a
                        plant of half bush, half vining habit, close two feet in height, its stems
                        straight, round, slender, faintly bluish-green, its leaves shaped much like
                        and resembling in veining and color those of some plum trees I know.A New Acquaintance It
                        had seeded in a burr, shaped and toothed outside like that of a beechnut,
                        but almost four times larger, and of warm coral-pink color. These burrs hung
                        over the plant profusely from very long, fine threads of stems, and being
                        ripe, had burst open, revealing four partitions covered by a thin
                        Chinese-red membrane. In some this had opened in a straight line down the
                        middle, drawing back each way, and evicting at the four points of the pink
                        burr a bright-red berry fastened by an extremely short stem. These were
                        really a seed, of pearl color, oval, and a little oblong in shape, one end
                        touched with flecks of red like a bird's egg, and enveloped in a
                        red, pulpy cover. I have found this plant only four times in all my life
                        afield, and for brilliant color and complicated arrangement of seeding I do
                        not remember its equal. Ebonymus Americanus is its
                        resounding scientific name. If it is sufficiently well known to have a
                        common one I can not find it.
                    
                    
                        
                            A GROUND MUSICIAN
                        
                        
                            What do you think!
                            He tells you his name,
                            And it is "Che-wink."
                        
                    
                    
                    While I photographed it a rustling among the deep leaves called my attention
                        to the typical bird of the forest floor, but this was not our first meeting;
                        in fact, we were old acquaintances, and one box of negatives in my closet at
                        home recorded all of its nesting history that I could secure with a
                            camera.A Ground
                            Musician Studies of this bird are unusual, at least I am fairly
                        well informed along this line, and I never have seen any published. It is
                        typical of the forest floor. It not only builds and raises its young on
                        earth, but finds food there, scratching like an exemplary hen, with feet
                        working alternately, and also surpassing her by using both feet at once, in
                        a manner she never learned. It has scratched and scratched until from much
                        scratching its length of toe and nail has developed into its most
                        conspicuous part. On the same principle, but in different members, the heron
                        has evolved its long legs by wading among the reeds. Because constant flight
                        keeps them useless, two of a kingfisher's toes are yet grown
                        together and do not separate as do those of perching birds. You only have to
                        notice the feet of this family group to observe the extraordinary length of
                        toe and nail, even in the young.
                    I suspect you are wondering why I do not tell their name. There is no
                        necessity. The bird prefers to introduce itself. Indeed, there is every
                        probability you have heard it do so many times,  while you never have seen the vocalist, for it keeps close earth in damp,
                        dark places, although social and a constant talker. It mounts to a high
                        choir-loft to sing its song. The cricket's is the dominant insect
                        note of the forest in August, the crow's the bird voice of the
                        treetops; this is the busybody and the unceasing musician of earth.
                    Pairs remain together after family cares are over, and their conversation
                        consists of a question and an answer. "Che-wink?" inquires
                        the male, with strong interrogative inflection on the last syllable.
                        "Che-wee!" exclaims the female, in reply, as if she were
                        delighted to say so. "Che-wink?" he asks again, with his
                        next breath. "Che-wee!" she gurgles, as if she were
                        telling him something "perfectly splendid" for the first
                        time. This call of the male supplies the species with a common name. On his
                        part it means, "Where are you?"and her answer is,
                        "Here!" But as it is delivered I think, from the
                        spontaneity of the reply, that it means a shade more"Safely
                        here!" "Happily here!" or "Glad to be
                        here!"
                    I am sure this is true, because in work close chewink nests I have had much
                        acquaintance with them. If a male calls and does not get instant reply, he
                        repeats the notes with perceptibly higher tone and stronger inflection. If
                        there is no answer to this he flies to a bush and begins a perfect clamor of
                        alarm cries, and hurries around the 
                        
                            
                                TALL BLUE BELLFLOWER
                            
                            
                                "'Neath cloistered boughs, each floral
                                    bell that swingeth
                                And tolls its perfume on the passing air,
                                Makes Sabbath in the fields, and ever ringeth
                                A call to prayer." Smith.
                            
                        
                         location, keeping up and increasing the
                        excitement until the straying female female hears him and comes home. Where
                        many of these birds nest undisturbed their notes are more noticeable than
                        any other feathered folk of earth.
                    The chewink is a finch, large as a rose-breasted grosbeak, and often mistaken
                        for one on account of the black coat and cowl worn by both.The Chewink Wardrobe
                        The chewink is far the more elegant and graceful bird, while the grosbeak is
                        the better musician. Mr. Chewink wears a black coat, with the sleeves and
                        tail touched with white, a black headdress and broad black collar. His shirt
                        is creamy white and his vest a bright Venetian-red. Mrs. Chewink's
                        headdress and collar are a brownish-tan color, the back and sleeves of her
                        suit the same color with the white touches. Her waist front is a dark creamy
                        white, and her toilet is completed with a Zouave jacket of red, a shade
                        darker than Mr. Chewink's vest. All her colors are richer in
                        subdued tones and more artistic than his, for where he sharply contrasts she
                        harmonizes exquisitely. Both birds have long tails, longer legs than others
                        of their genus, and the feet and toes as described, from much
                        scratching.
                    They are the noisiest birds of the forest floor. They desire to search the
                        earth for tiny bugs and worms, and the fallen leaves make a deep covering
                        everywhere. So they alight on a place that 
                        they select in a manner known to themselves; at times I have seen them stand
                        motionless, with one side of the head turned toward the ground, as robins
                        do, and appear to listen, so that I have thought it possible that they hear
                        insect sounds, as we may if we bring our ears close earth. When a spot is
                        chosen they jump upon it with toes widespread, and sink their sharp nails
                        deeply into the leaves; then with half-lifted wings, to aid the leg and body
                        muscles, they spring as far forward as they can and drop their load. In this
                        manner I have seen them at one effort clear a space as large as a breakfast
                        plate, on which to scratch for food.
                    Once as I crouched, covered by a tan cravanette exactly the color of the
                        leaves, beside a stump in the forest, a male bird came within six feet of me
                        and several times uncovered the earth by this method.A Lost Study In each operation he
                        appeared to listen before he selected a spot to work upon. Once my sense of
                        humor spoiled a fine study of his mate. She was approaching the nest to feed
                        the young, when he attempted to lift a large layer of leaves. He must have
                        gripped securely a fine, thread-like root that lifted for a few inches and
                        then became taut. The shock whirled him sidewise and rolled him over. He did
                        not know what had happened, and he appeared so astonished and cried out so
                        indignantly that I laughed and helped increase his fright. He dashed from
                        the thicket uttering 
                        
                            
                                THE CROWN OF THE FOREST KING
                            
                            
                                "What gnarled stretch, what depth of shade, is
                                    his!
                                There needs no crown to mark the
                                    forest's king;
                                How in his leaves outshines full summer's
                                    bliss!
                                Sun, storm, rain, dew, to him their tribute
                                    bring."
                            
                            Lowell.
                        
                         alarm cries that scared his mate out of
                        focus, so I lost a picture.
                    Their habit is to build on the earth beneath the protection of a gnarled root
                        or fallen limb, but once I found a nest in a tangle of bushes ten inches
                        above ground. The female slipped from it, hopped away, and trailed a wing
                        that appeared to be broken, and squealed as if wounded. I never saw a
                        killdeer play "'possum" more naturally. Chewinks
                        build of leaves and coarse grass, and line with finer material. The eggs are
                        white, touched with brown. Aside from that tribal call from which they take
                        their names, they sing a sustained song of several notes, much more
                        promising in the beginning than in the ending, that seems so unnecessarily
                        abrupt as to cause one to wish to enter protest. The song opens with a
                        sweet, clear whistle, and then slides off without at all fulfilling the
                        expectation it inspired. But where many musicians mount the bushes and sing,
                        accompanied by the endless leaf rustle of their mates, the music forms one
                        of the most pleasing parts of the forest chorus. They mount still higher and
                        sing with more abandon quite late, for birds, in the evening; or else their
                        notes sound particularly well at that time on account of the peculiarity of
                        their vocalizing neighbors who are just running scales to clear their voices
                        for the night performance.
                    You never can say you really belong in the forest  unless you have remained for so many all-night concerts that
                        you are familiar with the parts of all the musicians. At night only a few
                        grasshoppers are vocalizing, the crickets never cease, and the katy-dids
                        tune up for their star performance. Daytime feathered singers as a rule tuck
                        their heads and go to sleep early, and the absence of the wavering
                        accompaniment of their varied voices gives peculiar pause and tonal color to
                        ensuing notes that are of themselves sufficiently emphatic and startling.
                        Almost always the wind drops on summer evenings, and a great silence so deep
                        it enwraps you as a garment and fills your soul with awe seems to creep from
                        the very heart of the forest. When not dominated by tree and bird music,
                        insect voices ring out shrill and high, and the whip-poor-will finds truly
                        artistic pause and setting for its remarkable vocal performance. No other
                        bird of all ornithology lifts its voice and in such clear and distinct
                        English enunciates what it has to say. Almost every naturalist and musician
                        afield recording bird notes disagrees as to the utterance and inflection of
                        some of our plainest talkers. There is no difference of opinion whatever
                        about this bird. To every one it says too plainly to admit questioning.
                        "Whip-poor-will!"
                    Near the same time the night hawk takes flight during the breeding
                            season.The Midnight
                            Serenade After family cares are over I have seen bands of them
                        come sweeping 
                        
                            
                                BLACK HAW BLOOM
                            
                            
                                Winter snowballs are cold and hard,
                                They often make your fingers freeze;
                                Summer snowballs are soft and sweet,
                                And you gather them off the trees.
                            
                        
                         from the forest and spread over lake and
                        river as early as four o'clock in the afternoon. They are of
                        tireless flight, darting here and there with mouths wide open for whatever
                        they come across, as they take their food on wing. Especially during the
                        breeding season the males do aerial stunts, possibly for the diversion of
                        weary mates. They soar seventy-five or one hundred feet, spread the wings
                        and tail widely, and drop toward earth, the wind passing between the stiff
                        feathers causing the whistling, booming sound that earns for them the name
                        of "night jar."
                    This performance does jar the night somewhat, and might the nerves also, were
                        it wise to allow ourselves such a luxury.Jarring the Night I prefer the term to night hawk,
                        since the birds are not nearly so much creatures of night as they should be
                        to merit distinct designation by the name; neither are they hawks at all,
                        but relatives of martins and swallows. Aside from this instrumental
                        performance on wing they utter a nice, cheerful scream that some peculiar
                        folks insist upon disliking, but then there are people in this world who are
                        forever raising strong objections to the vocalizing of their human
                        neighbors. Night jars have a third performance, half vocal, half pantomimic,
                        that is most remarkable of all. When surprised close their nests, cornered,
                        or slightly wounded, they lie on their backs, swell their facial and throat
                        muscles  to astonishing size, and hiss, with
                        mouths wide open. So the ever-discerning French call them "flying
                        toads," to commemorate the performance.
                    I can not change the subject after this without saying for these birds that
                        they are beautiful, in rich colors of blended black, gray, creamy white,
                        several shades of brown, and the red that scientists designate
                        "rufous;" combinations that render them especial
                        colorative protection among the grasses, leaves, and on the earth or rocks
                        upon which they nest. In monetary value they are almost priceless. They do
                        not destroy anything of use to man, while they gather millions of
                        grasshoppers that are cutting crops, and sift the air tirelessly for insect
                        pests. On wing the white bands of the quills form a half-moon that
                        distinguishes them from the whip-poor-will, for which they are often
                        mistaken.
                    When night envelopes the forest there travel its dusky aisles and dark mazes
                        three creatures of soundless wing: great, exquisitely colored night moths,
                        owls, and bats.Silent
                            Wings The moths are mostly confined to the months of May and
                        June. Few people see and none ever hear them. Matured in a cocoon spun by a
                        big caterpillar, performing all the functions of their lives under cover of
                        the darkness of night, and spending their few days in the darkest places
                        possible, never moving in the light except when disturbed, one would imagine
                        they would be dark-gray, brown, and black in coloring. 
                        
                            
                                BLACK HAWS
                            
                            
                                As odd a thing as you ever saw
                                Is the changing color of the black haw.
                                All its berries hang china white;
                                Jack Frost paints them black some October night;
                                When the sun sees this ebon hue.
                                He veils it in 'bloom' of silvery
                                    blue.
                            
                        
                         I think most of the tints of the rainbow are
                        represented among them. Some are palest blue-green, decorated with straw
                        color and lavender; others are cowslip-yellow, with touches of maroon; some
                        are tan, with pink markings, and others terra cotta, with canary-colored
                        spots and gray lines. Some are gray, with terra cotta half-moons; others are
                        wine-red, with tan; all are of beautiful basic color, speckled, dotted,
                        lined, striped, and spotted with bright harmonizing or contrasting designs
                        on their wings of softest velvet down. Some have transparent ovals so clear
                        that fine print can be read through them, set in their wings, and most moths
                        are large as the average warbler. They sweep so close that your face is
                        sensitive to the disturbance of air in their passing, but you hear no sound.
                        Their flight is soft and perfectly noiseless.
                    The owl can afford to be of silent wing, it so dominates the night with its
                        voice. It would give me great satisfaction if I had some way of knowing
                        surely whether other birds sleep serenely during its vehement serenade
                        either to the moon or to a coveted mate, or whether they are awake and
                        shuddering with fear.
                    I know how the heart of a frightened bird leaps and throbs in its small
                        breast, and I would be glad to learn that they sleep soundly, but I doubt
                        it. They are awake and fluttering through the darkness at such slight
                        disturbance of other nature.  There is no
                        difficulty whatever in learning the status of owl music among people.
                        Repulsion and shuddering greet it everywhere. I have been making an especial
                        study of this, and I think I have learned how it began.
                    The Bible contains our first authentic bird history, but ornithologists
                        before that time in other lands, and all of them everywhere since, are
                        unanimous in doing all in their power to discredit the vocal performance of
                        the owl. I can not find a single reference to it in the Bible not expressly
                        written for the purpose of inspiring fear and repulsion. Isaiah says in
                        predicting the fall of Babylon, "And their houses shall be full of
                        doleful creatures, and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance
                        there."
                    Micah said he would "make a wailing like the dragons and a mourning
                        as the owls."The
                            Pariah of the Forest When David fell into trouble he became
                        "like a pelican of the wilderness and an owl of the
                        desert." Such quotations constitute the entire Bible record of the
                        bird, and taking their cue from these,ornithologists, nature writers, and
                        even poets perpetuate such ideas. Proctor distinguished himself by a lengthy
                        owl poem, from which I quote, 
                            
                                In the hollow tree, in the old gray tower,
                                The spectral owl doth
                                    dwell;
                                
                                    Dull, hated, despised, in the sunshine
                                    hour,
                                But at dusk he's abroad and well:
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                THE TREES
                            
                            
                                They cut them for cabins, stables and fences,
                                For mauls, rakes, scoops and ladles,
                                They cut them for pumps, beehives and troughs,
                                They even cut them for cradles.
                            
                            
                            
                                And the owl hath a bride who is fond and bold,
                                And she loveth the wood's deep
                                    gloom,
                                And, with eyes like the shine of a moonstone cold,
                                She awaiteth her ghastly
                                    groom."
                            
                        
                    
                    The sentiment belongs to the poet, the italics are mine. Now, would you not
                        think that the bride who is "fond and bold," and who
                        "loveth" her home, might have just one line of
                        whole-souled appreciation out of a lengthy poem? But she did not get it
                        because the people who have written the volumes compiled owl history would
                        make have forgotten to give one minute of consideration to the viewpoint of
                        the bird. Do you suppose that to the owl her mate is "dull, hated,
                        despised, spectral, ghastly," and only fit company for
                        "doleful creatures, satyrs, and dragons?" If you ever had
                        seen her nestle close to him, rub her head against him, stroke his feathers
                        with her beak, and heard her jabber her love-story to him, you would change
                        your mind speedily, if that is what you have been thinking.
                    There is good excuse for other birds fearing the owl. It seems to be ordained
                        by nature that the larger species prey upon the smaller for food, and they
                        suffer from the law without being able to argue its justice. But people have
                        nothing to fear and everything to enlist their sympathy. I think the truth
                        is the shudder that greets the vocalizing of the owl is not really for the
                        bird at all,  but a touch of fear of the
                        forest at night, yet in the system. A taint of an inheritance from days when
                        our ancestors battled there for existence, that becomes manifest at
                        unexpected sounds, the gleaming surfaces of pools, the wavering shafts of
                        moonlight, the vibrant tree-rustle of the wind, the stealthy step of animals
                        crossing the leafy floor, the gutteral scream of night-hunters fighting over
                        prey. So because this bird of silent wing comes hooting from a place of
                        which they stand a little in awe they vent their displeasure on its
                        voice.
                    Of all the scientists, ornithologists, and nature writers whose work graces
                        my library shelves not one goes on record with the fact that the owl
                        utterance most loudly condemned is his love song, used in
                        courting his mate, and when these writers shudder they do not explain that
                        Mr. Horned Owl is throwing in especially intoned and emphatic
                            sentiment.The
                            Owls' Serenade He is imploring with all his might for
                        the mate he covets to pair with him and record a title to the first location
                        he finds suitable for their happy home. Just singing out his heart in the
                        best and only serenade he knows.
                    Because they are of night and silent flight, no doubt, bats are placed in the
                        same class with owlsat the very foot. Most fastidious people imagine that
                        they draw the line at a worm, but they do not. They draw it at a bat, and
                        this, again, on account of the prejudicial history surrounding a 
                        
                            
                                YOUNG BATS
                            
                            
                                Fireflies flitting all aroud
                                Wouldn't stop to be eaten;
                                Hungry babies too young to fly,
                                Could such luck be beaten?
                            
                        
                         wonderful little creature, half bird, half
                        beast. The poet Street wrote of it as "a wavering, soundless
                        blot." A bat in the face is considered just and sufficient cause
                        for convulsions, yet the worst that possibly could result from it would be a
                        tiny scratch of a bite, not nearly so annoying as that of a mosquito.
                    Once I had a face-to-face acquaintance with a mother bat whose body bore the
                        weight of three young that nursed at her breast and clung to her while they
                            slept.Bat
                            Biography She had a very small face, shaped like that of a young
                        pig, except that the ears were round instead of pointed. The male must have
                        carried food, or else enough insects to sustain life flew her way, for she
                        could not carry her burden on wing. With the exception of flight, I could
                        not discover one attribute or characteristic of the feathered tribe. Her
                        wings were not in the least birdlike. They resembled the half of a spread
                        umbrella having a thin rubber cover. Each wing represented four ribs and
                        three sections of cover, and these ribs centered in a joint like the long,
                        bony fingers of a hand, with a little sharp hook of a thumb, by which the
                        bat clung and helped bear her weight. She slept head down and was liveliest
                        at night. Her fur was silken soft and fine, and of beautiful red-brown
                        color. When fed milk with a small wooden paddle I could see her fine sharp
                        teeth, but she did not offer to bite.  When I
                        had studied her all I desired and photographed the family, she was replaced
                        where she had been found.
                    She appealed to me as a happy mother busy with affairs of momentous
                        importance, for she was raising triplets instead of the usual twins of
                        bat-land. A human touch that struck straight to my heart often occurred when
                        the young finished nursing and crept over her body. They dug into her skin
                        until she squealed such a sibilant, faint sound that it would have required
                        multiplication by a million to raise one healthy note in the great chorus of
                        the forest. I was reminded of a mother crying out when her baby hurts her.
                        It would be well for every one to become sufficiently familiar with bats to
                        handle them, and find out what they are doing, and why, and what their
                        relation is to us.
                    Having learned these things, people will become more in harmony with the
                        scheme of creation. They will respect the motherhood of this small winged
                        animal, and recognize that in sifting the night air for noxious insects, as
                        do swallows and martins by day, it is fulfilling a purpose in the plan of
                        creation and being of inestimable value to us. If the pests exterminated by
                        the flycatchers, swallows, martins, night hawks, and bats were allowed to
                        multiply one season without being molested, humanity then would be ready to
                        raise a 
                        
                            
                                WHERE THE WOODS BEGIN
                            
                            
                                "To loiter down lone alleys of delight,
                                And hear the beating of the hearts of
                                    trees,
                                And think the thoughts that lilies speak in white
                                By grenwood pools and pleasant
                                    passages."
                            
                            
                                Lanier.
                            
                        
                         great chorus of praise concerning the work of
                        these small creatures of silent wing.
                    If I had a lifetime to live in the forest, inexhaustible plates,
                        indestructible cameras, wells of ink, and pens of magic, I am sure that for
                        each dayyes, every hourI could find some interesting thing to picture and
                        describe. But the demands of life will not allow this, and the forest ends
                        all too soon in these days. You can locate the line where mere woods begin
                        by robin talk.
                    Here you find despoiled forest.Where The Woods Begin It is easy to work, because
                        in taking out valuable trees for commerce men have cut roads that can be
                        followed even in quite wild places. Often many trees have been felled, and
                        the strong light shining in has started grasses growing. Men see in these
                        open places tender, luxuriant pasture for stock, so when salable timber is
                        taken out the next step is to kill all the shrubs and vines possible, burn
                        the brush, and make grazing grounds. Of course the cleared fields come next,
                        and as they march with inexorable force, they push back the woods farther
                        and yet farther.
                    I find that most of the trees are of little or no commercial value. They
                        remain because they are of twisted growth, bent, soft wood, hollow, nut
                        bearers, or too small to be felled with profit. So the woods belong to
                        pasturing stock, birds, animals, and children. The lure of the unknown in
                             the forest is not over the open wood, but
                        it has great attractions of its own. To most people who fancy they are
                        "roughing it" the woods are eminently satisfactory, and as
                        far as they care to penetrate.
                    In the woods you are sure to be close a road, and you know there are almost
                        constant passers-by, in case anything annoys you. You can see your way far
                        ahead, and walk on solid foothold, padded with thickly growing grass like a
                        lawn. You can lie safely on a green couch with a tree for a back rest. For
                        atmosphere you find a hint of forest pungeney and coolness without the damp,
                        mucky odor.
                    The music of the woods is very different from the forest.The Chorus of the Woods The insects
                        are much the same, but widely scattered, so that their songs lack volume.
                        Its birds are not of the same voice and habit, and it homes other animals.
                        Tree music is entirely different. The density of the forest dissipates the
                        force of even heavy wind, and the intricacy of the branches divides it into
                        wailing, sobbing murmurs of sound. In the woods the winds can blow with
                        might, and meet much less obstruction, so that the harp music is higher of
                        tone, grander in sweep, longer in measure, with more of an instrumental
                        swell.
                    Nut trees are spared almost universally in clearing, so they are numerous and
                        easy to find, 
                        
                            
                                FROST FLOWERS
                            
                            
                                The latest snow
                                The Spring woods know,
                                Is when the dainty wild flowers blow.
                            
                        
                         and chattering squirrels are plentiful around
                        them. Hollow trees have no monetary value; they remain and furnish shelter
                        for everything desiring either an upright or a prostrate home. I noticed in
                        the woods that dead trees had sufficient space to lie down and decay at
                        ease. The squirrels bark and race along the logs, coons sniff and shuffle in
                        them, and the cotton-tails bound with a quick flash of white from covert to
                        covert. The jays are kept busy guarding the woods. Orioles trail their
                        bubbling song along their chosen paths of air. Flaming cardinals chip among
                        the bushes, and barn owls enliven the night.
                    At no time are the woods ever so the property of any human being as in early
                        spring they belong to the children.Frost Flowers For the small people, it seems to
                        me, the flowers and birds are an especial inheritance from the Father. The
                        Lord knew when He blanketed the earth with snowy white how children would
                        walk long distances and overturn the dead leaves in their search for spring
                        flowers, because of all others they love these most,just the white anemones,
                        pink-flushed spring beauties, blue violets, and Dutchman's
                        breeches.
                    No bird note I ever have heard was quite so sweet as the voices of the
                        children out for a first flower-hunt after the confinement of a long, cold
                        winter. Without knowing what it is they love, they lift their heads, fill
                        their lungs with the air  cool with scarce
                        melted snows, pungent with catkin pollen, tinged with the vague, subtle
                        perfume from unsheathing leaves, and the bloom of forest trees, and answer
                        to the call of nature. They hasten to the woods as cattle dry-fed for months
                        race through pasture when first released, too crazed with joy to begin
                        grazing at once. If the truth were told, I think this love of children for
                        the spring flowers is almost as much craving for the intoxication of spring
                        air and release from winter's bondage as it is appreciation of the
                        blooms.
                    What a shout the child sends up who finds the first flower! The one who
                        secures a dogtooth violet is envied as men covet each other's gold.
                        What matters it that the hot, close-grasping little hands will wither the
                        delicate frost blooms hopelessly before they can be presented so lovingly to
                        mother and teacher? The children have had the joy of their outing, the
                        fulfillment of their search, the pleasure of giving the precious gift; and
                        where the earth lies blanketed with flowers until one must look closely to
                        see that it is not yet snow-covered, what they take never will be missed,
                        and the coming spring will bring as profuse bloom as the past.
                    Later in the season, when the cardinal flower, foxfire, cowslip, bellflower,
                        bluebell, and daisy bloomflowers that are of rarer occurrence and that would
                        be exterminated by such vigorous attacksthe children have become accustomed
                        to 
                        
                            
                                SYCAMORE
                            
                            
                                "In the outskirts of the village,
                                On the river's winding shores,
                                Stand the Occidental plane-trees,
                                Stand the ancient sycamores,"
                            
                            
                                Whittier.
                            
                        
                         freedom and out-door sports, and seldom go to
                        the woods.
                    I once knew an Irishman who, in reference to being greedy about anything,
                        said it was always his way to "take a little and leave a
                            little.""Take a Little and Leave a Little" I wish I
                        could impress this splendid doctrine upon all flower hunters, especially
                        city folk who go pleasure-driving through the country. Frequently while at
                        my work in the fields and woods I meet them, and they never leave anything,
                        not even the roots, unless it be wild rose, goldenrod, or something so
                        profuse they can not possibly take all. That is not the worst. They are not
                        prepared to gather flowers. They see a lovely red, blue, or yellow bloom,
                        and jump from their carriages long enough to drag up the plant by the roots.
                        If the flower is a hardy annual, this means death. If a seedling, it is
                        death also, for no seed remains to ripen. I hope that I may live to see the
                        day when our wild flowers will be protected by law, the same as our
                        birds.
                    If the flowers had been created to furnish sweets for honey-gatherers and
                        feeders only, all of them might as well have been green or have consisted
                        merely of stamen and pistil. I never will believe that the gorgeously
                        colored petals are only a signal to attract bees and butterflies. The theory
                        is confounded in the beginning by the differing colors and the fact that
                        many brilliant flowers  have no perfume
                        whatever and are not visited by sweet-lovers. If color were only a signal to
                        insects, it might as well be all red or yellow. If petals were solely an
                        attraction to honey-gatherers, why call bees and butterflies to bloom having
                        no sweetness? It is as sure as can be that flowers are not only for
                        sweet-lovers, but for us, to give pleasure, to glorify the landscape, to set
                        a joy-song singing in the soul.
                    Flower forms are complicated, beautiful past describing, and their colors
                        varied to suit every degree of taste and circumstance of usage.The Patent-Right of
                            Divinity The Lord gave the blossoms decorating the earth, as a
                        masterstroke, a finishing touch, the patent-right of Divinity stamped upon
                        the face of His work. Then surely it is an offense to Him ruthlessly to tear
                        up plants by the root, and to kill them for the moment's
                        gratification. Any one who wishes to preserve a proper spirit of gratitude
                        to God for His gift of the flowers will cut a few
                        carefully, and leave the plant to bloom another year, or mature its seed. I
                        think, further, that any person of refined taste not only will leave a plant
                        alive, and a part of its bloom to mature seed; but he also will leave some
                        of its flowers for the next traveler of the road. The
                        highway stretches endlessly, and human souls more sensitive than you would
                        dream are upon it each hour. There is not always a song on every lip. The
                        lines on some faces indicate weariness, 
                        
                            
                                THE APPLES OF MAY
                            
                            
                                The mandrake stoutly raises
                                Its silken umbrellas green,
                                To shelter parl-white flowers,
                                Apples of gold to screen.
                            
                        
                         care, and deep sorrow. Flowers and bird songs
                        are to cheer the way for all, and some need encouragement so sorely.
                        Possibly the very next comer may be sad-hearted, and the bright blooms would
                        offer cheer. Who are you, to monopolize any gift of the Lord merely because
                        you happen to be the first to find it?
                    The only way to make any diminution of the small spring flowers would be to
                        plow and till the soil. But of the larger, later growths mentioned some are
                        at present almost extinct. Ten years ago tall, blue bellflower waved in
                        almost every fencecorner of my immediate territory. This summer vigorous
                        search for just enough to fill an eight by ten photographic plate revealed
                        it in only three places, widely separated. Another hunt disclosed foxfire in
                        one location, and no cardinal flower.
                    In the woods where mandrake formerly grew in half-acre patches, trampling
                        cattle and rooting pigs, aided by ruthless flower-gatherers, have played
                        havoc with it until search is required to find a healthy, typical
                            growth.Apples of
                            May Mandrake is a wonderfully peculiar plant and, aside from its
                        medicinal value, is beautiful and bears fruit. In early spring the tender
                        leaves, wrapped around their stems like a folded umbrella, come pushing
                        through the earth. The plants have one stalk, that branches at the height of
                        ten or twelve inches, each branch supporting a big leaf made up of four or
                        six sections,  lobed to the base, so that they
                        appear to be separated. The flower opens at the branching, a waxy, white cup
                        that resembles a lily in texture and has six petals. Pollen-laden stamens
                        surround the pistil, that is straight and heavy, and on the dropping of the
                        leaves it develops the fruit. The flowers are oppressively fragrant, but
                        many people admire them and are fond of the ripe apples. Country children
                        gather them just at the turning to gold, and bury them in the bran barrel
                        for a treat long after the woods are bare. They are called
                        "May-apples," and are entitled to be classed as the
                        typical flower and fruit of the woods. Like many other species, extinction
                        threatens them.
                    Last season from early spring I had been watching a large bed of mandrake
                        that I hoped would bloom profusely and give me a good study for this book.
                        Passing the location one Sabbath afternoon, I planned to stop and learn if
                        it would be ready for use on the morrow. From afar my hopes sank, for I
                        could see a carriage standing at the place. When I arrived one man was
                        holding the horse, and another with two women were coming from the woods.
                        Each one of them carried as many mandrake stems as they possibly could
                        grasp; every stem had an exquisite waxy flower at the top, shorn of all
                        vestige of leaf. The bed was ruined, and the ground covered with roots and
                        leaves. If those people had not torn up, they 
                        
                            
                                SMOKE HOUSE
                            
                            
                                Through cycles the sycamore lifted its head,
                                Above savage and beast with stealthy feet,
                                Now it stands by the old woodshed,
                                And nerves to cure the summer meat.
                            
                        
                         had trampled down every plant; and the great
                        bunches of bloom they carried would not live to reach the city, for mandrake
                        is extremely delicate when gathered. You could have trailed the party from
                        the woods by a milky way of petals already fallen, and no doubt the mass of
                        flowers was discarded before ten miles had been traveled, so sensitive are
                        these blooms to touch.
                    It has been my fortune to find mandrake flourishing beneath or near oak trees
                        so often that I have wondered if there could be an affinity. From the nature
                        of the plant, I suppose not; but this I know: foxglove loves to twine its
                        roots around those of oaks, and finer specimens flourish near them than
                        anywhere else. And I have been told that more delicious truffles grow among
                        oak roots than chestnut. The oak is a wonderful tree. It reaches unrecorded
                        age, and is strong and hardy. It becomes such a giant that it is king of the
                        forest, unsurpassed in the woods, and has no peer in the fields. The mellow
                        bass notes of nature's tree music are played among its massive
                        branches. There are many varieties that are used for furniture and wherever
                        stout, unyielding timbers are required in a house or for ship-building. In
                        commerce it is valuable for making furniture and musical instruments, and
                        for certain purposes no other tree will take its place.
                    Oak bark is very rough and deeply grooved  with
                        the cracks of growth, and where the tree is not crowded its shape is
                        symmetrical, and its leaves are artistically cut. In the fall some species
                        color with great brilliancy, crowning the king with flaming red. Its flowers
                        are long, greenish-yellow tassels, pollen-covered, and their perfume is a
                        part of that creeping, subtle odor that people struggle to define and can
                        not, because they do not dream what produces it, I always find the bees,
                        wild and domesticated, extremely busy over it, and so far as I can judge by
                        my taste it is one of the kinds of pollen that tempers the sickening
                        sweetness of pure flower honey so that it is edible.
                    There are many attractive spring odors, but there is difficulty in tracing
                        some of them to their origin.The Blooming of the Trees Because they are fond of gathering
                        catkins every one knows that willows bloom and has become familiar with the
                        pollen. But they do not realize that in early spring forest, wood, and field
                        trees are all covered with tiny flowers heavily ladened with pollen, so that
                        to the wind harping in the branches is added the music of millions of
                        honey-gathering bees. Buckeye, walnut, hickory, hazel, chestnut, ash, elm,
                        beech, oak, in fact every tree that bears nut, berry or seed is weighted
                        with masses of small bloom.
                    Oak flowers are not at all gaudy. They make no display worth mentioning in
                        comparison with the fall coloring of the foliage. But the bursting 
                        
                            
                                THE DESERTED CABIN
                            
                            
                                The hands that tended the cabin are still,
                                Toads hop over the sagging floor,
                                The cricket complains on the fireless hearth,
                                And weeds wave across the door,
                                But on blossom whitened old apple boughs
                                The birds sing gayly as of yore.
                            
                        
                         of white oak-leaf buds covers a tree with a
                        pale, silvery pinkish effect that is lovely and very showy; much more
                        attractive than the flowers. All varieties of acorns are interesting with
                        their shiny hulls, pointed tips, and flat bases that fit into their rough
                        cups securely, until the nuts drop, or else at maturity are shaken out by
                        the wind. Few of the cups fall until pushed off by the growth of the
                        following spring. These little cups, clinging to a tree all winter, make it
                        appear as if it might be a table spread for a fairies' tea party.
                        The leaves of oak, and also beech, hang with the same tenacity, and in
                        winter days of hoar-frost or drifting snow they form the most beautiful
                        fringy and mossy sprays among the branches.
                    There are two peculiarities about the oak that as yet science has failed to
                        explain satisfactorily: why it is that all through the forest, field, and
                        woods these big trees so frequently die in the very top branchesa death that
                        too often spreads to the roots; and why they are more frequently struck by
                        lightning than any other tree. Government reports tell us they are, but they
                        neglect to state the reason.
                    These and other large trees of the forest sometimes deceive the lumbermen who
                        fell them by being a mere shell, and so they are left where they are cut.
                        But nothing is ever useless, and birds and animals are quick to take
                        possession of anything  men leave for them.
                        Felled hollow trees are splendid homes for the big black chickens of the
                        woodsthe vultures. These birds find such trees very suitable, for in them
                        are combined location, shelter, and building material. The deep inner
                        coating of decayed wood jars loose with the fall of the tree, and the homing
                        bird only has to turn on the point of her breast a few times in it to make a
                        hollow, and she is ready for housekeeping. She lays a pair of delicate
                        pale-blue lusterless eggs, much the color of a cuckoo's, but
                        heavily mottled, and splashed with dark chocolate. In these circumstances
                        the nest is very beautiful. The decayed wood runs the whole color scheme,
                        from almost white through every shade of yellow, and then begins on tans and
                        exhausts them, and then the browns. The big, speckled blue eggs are shaped
                        like a hen's, but large as a turkey's.
                    The young are out in a month, and are simply comical little creatures, having
                        the sharp, hooked beak of the flesh-eater, a little old wrinkled face of
                        leathery appearance, and a body that expands to three times its shell
                        capacity on the first day of emergence.Pharaoh's Chickens Their dress is of
                        snowy white, fine as swan's down. They are so clumsy and helpless
                        they must remain many weeks developing in the log before taking wing and
                        sailing to the clouds.
                    The old birds are relatives of Pharaoh's chickens of ancient Egypt,
                        where they were so beneficial 
                        
                            
                                PHARAOH'S CHICKENS
                            
                            
                                "V was a vagabond vulture
                                Who said: 'I don't want to insult
                                    yer,
                                But when you intrude
                                Where in lone solitude
                                I'm a-preyin' you're no man
                                    culture!'"
                            
                            
                                Riley,
                            
                        
                         in their work of ridding camps, tenting
                        families, villages, and cities of refuse and decaying matter, that in the
                        heat bred plague and fever quickly, that one of the kings surpassed the
                        stringent laws of his predecessors for the protection of the birds by
                        enacting a law inflicting the death penalty on any one killing a vulture.
                        Following this precedent, some of our Southern States impose a heavy fine as
                        a means of protecting these birds.
                    All over the South they are common, and at times become familiar and perch
                        upon housetops and buildings, so contaminating the water supply that it is a
                        question as to whether they are a blessing. In the North the birds are not
                        numerous, but every year makes them more so. Their cousin, turkey-buzzard,
                        is frequent. The old birds spend much of their time on wing, ranging the sky
                        over miles of country searching for food. They are graceful and majestic in
                        flight as any bird, not truly black, but shading from a reddish tinge to a
                        rich dark-brown with blackish effects.
                    I can not see that any bird presents a more attractive picture in the
                            sky.Black Vulture
                            Music It is not known how high they can soar; beyond our range of
                        vision, that is sure. Their music resembles a guttural jabber in
                        love-making, most of which is done in sign language; and when angry or
                        afraid, they hiss much like geese. In danger or anger they do  not scream and fight with beak and feet, as
                        the hawk or eagle, but content themselves with hissing and biting if
                        cornered. They duck their heads, dodge rapidly, and are very dexterous in
                        making their escape. While they appear anxious, they are not bold and will
                        not attack you if you touch their young. Possibly this is because they
                        consider a habit of theirs to be the best means of defense, and expect the
                        young to protect themselves in the same manner. Their method of warfare is
                        quite as unique and effective as that of the skunk. The staple food of these
                        birds is carrion, and when angry or disturbed they present you with their
                        partially digested dinners. The question whether birds have much sense of
                        smellabove all, whether a vulture can smell itselflong has been discussed
                        among scientists. No bird or animal is offensive to itself, but vultures
                        must have some hazy knowledge that this act on their part is disgusting to
                        mortals; else, why the inclination, even in the newly-hatched young? A great
                        amount of flight and patient searching is required to secure a
                        vulture's chosen food; surely they would not be so ready to part
                        with it if they did not know the act would secure for them the immunity it
                        usually does.
                    Vultures remain in the woods and fields until late in the fall, probably
                        because their young need much practice before they have the strength and
                        agility of wing for migration. Usually the leaves 
                        
                            
                                HOP TREE MUSIC
                            
                            
                                Fayest music the hop trees are making,
                                Deep in the heart of fairyland,
                                To the castanets they are shaking.
                                Dance the pixie, gnome and fairy band,
                            
                        
                         have colored, and most of them fallen, before
                        these birds migrate. They remain with us, as the larks, until frost and cold
                        drive them away. After the young become self-supporting the family perches
                        among the branches of a big tree for the night. This is cold, unattractive
                        business by November, for there is little shelter on any tree save among the
                        dry leaves of oaks and beeches.
                    There is a smaller tree that once deceived me into the belief that it was
                        clinging to its dead leaves as do its larger fellows, but examination proved
                        that it was loaded with dry seed clusters.The Hop-Tree Dance It was a hop tree, and the
                        seeds were very similar to those of the slippery elm. They are almost round
                        in shape, flat, a small oval seed in the center, a thin dry rim around it,
                        and a twig bears from forty to sixty in one cluster. Each seed hangs from a
                        tough, slender stem. When the wind blows the hop tree is the greatest
                        musician of the woods. But there is no sobbing, no wailing, no sadness in
                        its notes. It plays a happy, clipping dance tune. From every side the wind
                        catches the flat seed surfaces and sets them shaking with an enlivening
                        rustle, and when millions of them strike together, all the pixies, gnomes,
                        and fairies come trooping to the hall of the woods and begin wildly dancing
                        as the hop tree shakes its castanets.
                    Before you know it you come to the end of the woods. When we stop to think,
                        the earth as  originally given to us was
                        almost solid forest. Barring the oceans, a few places of desertness, the
                        mountains and swamps, deep forest covered the greater portion of the
                        remaining surface at the advent of man. A few feet of digging will uncover
                        the roots of extinct forests where some of our desert land now lies.
                    What the character of the chorus of the forest must have been in those days
                        one can not imagine. The notes of our great tree harps were the first
                        sacrificed. Before the advance of civilization the trees must fall to build
                        homes, for fires, to clear space for cultivation, and to provide furniture
                        and implements. As the trees vanished not only their music ceased, but the
                        songs of all the inhabitants of their branches and the residents of the
                        earth beneath them. The voice of the forest was hushed.
                    So completely were the trees wiped out that not even decayed specimens, the
                        big bass-drums, were left for the birds. Men saw many places where they
                        could use a hollow tree, and save much time and expense. So the pump and the
                        watering-trough were made of them. Also the bee-hive, smoke-house, ash
                        hopper, hen's nest, sugar-water trough, feeding-troughs of all
                        sizes, the dog kennel, bread tray, and first and most important of all
                        should have been mentioned the cradle. Hollow trees were used in ditches
                        where we now place 
                        
                            
                                NIGHT MUSIC ON A FOREST RIVER
                            
                            
                                "Beautiful was the night. Behind the black wall of
                                    the forest.
                                Tipping its summit with silver grose the moon. On the
                                    river
                                Fell here and there through the branches a tremulous of the
                                    moonlight
                                Like the sweet thoughts of love on a darkened and devious
                                    spirit."
                            
                            
                                Landfellow.
                            
                        
                         tile, and for many other purposes, some of
                        them very amusing. Wherever man takes possession of the gift of the Lord the
                        forest and its music disappear.
                    To be sure, new music springs up in the fields to take its place, but the
                        substitute is very mild.The
                            Wildest of Music On account of its wild, weird, appealing strain,
                        found nowhere else in nature, the chorus of the forest thrills the heart. It
                        is the only place on earth where tree music can be had in perfection, and no
                        other is like it. Great organs have been built and numerous wind and string
                        instruments made, all in an effort to reproduce the sigh and the sob, the
                        wail and the roar of the forest, but they forever fall short of its grandeur
                        and majesty.
                    This incomparable tree harping can not be reproduced out of its element; it
                        may be copied in parts so accurately that its tones can be recognized, but
                        the real music of nature is when the waves of wind sweep among the boughs of
                        trees. It is when crickets of the forest floor sing cheerily, when
                        grasshoppers energetically play their fiddles, and locusts sow their notes
                        on summer air. The leaf-rustle of the chewink on earth, the mournful wail of
                        the pewee in the treetops, the impudent chuckle of the crow, and the
                        battle-cry of the hawk, are parts of it. The scream of the night jar, the
                        command of the whip-poor-will, and the serenade of the courting owl combine
                        their notes.
                    
                    It is in the bleating of the fawn, the howl of the wolf, and the gutteral
                        growl of the bear. Every voice of each living creature lifted in joy,
                        curiosity, pain, or anger, with the leaf-rustle or cyclonic agony of the
                        trees, the murmur of waters, the whisper of winds, and the song of humanity
                        plays a part. All these unite to form one great and throbbing anthem, and if
                        you once learn this wildest of music it will become so sacred to you that
                        its call will be with you always, and when it is most insistent you will
                        find peace only in the forest.
                    
                
                
                
                    PART II Songs of the Fields
                    
                    
                        
                            "White round your bed, o'er fern and
                                blade,
                            Insects in green and gold arrayed,
                            The sun's gay tribes have lightly strayed;
                            And sweeter sounds their humming wings
                            Than the proud minstrel's echoing
                                strings."
                        
                        Howitt.
                    
                    
                    
                        KATY-DID
                    
                    
                        
                            "Did Katy love a naughty man,
                            Of kiss more cheeks than one?
                            I warrant Katy did no more
                            Than many a Kate has done."
                        
                        --Holmes.
                    
                    
                    
                    Songs of the Fields
                    IF the forest is the Temple of God, the fields are the amphitheater of
                            man.Field Music
                        When spring arouses a sleeping earth they are painted in one great,
                        ever-shifting panorama that stretches beyond our vision, and the world is
                        filled with the songs of nature. Because we love this music above all other
                        we rejoice that a few old-fashioned fields remain to be flooded with such
                        melody in its proper environment. Here, dotted with wild trees and outlined
                        with lichen and vine-covered old snake-fences, every corner of which is
                        filled with shrubs and bushes sheltering singing birds and insects, the
                        great song festival of the fields is held. Here the old-time content with
                        life is voiced from cabin homes, and the forest towering high above affords
                        shelter and protection, and balances the forces of nature. These old farms,
                        forest-guarded, walled by growth and moisture, resounding with bird-song and
                        trampled with scudding feet,all of these have two owners. One is the man who
                        pays  the taxes and keeps up the fences; the
                        other is the woman with the camera, who coolly lays down enclosures and
                        trespasses where fancy leads. Every such farm on the face of earth is mine,
                        also the birds, moths, and animals that it attracts.
                    It is undying glory to own these old cabins, the orchards that surround them,
                        the gardens, stable lots, wood-yards, truck patches, grain fields, pastures,
                        creeks, ponds, little hints that remind you of real forest, stretches of
                        river, thickets, and all the insects, bird, and animal life. These farmers
                        do not know there is another claimant to their land. They think the title is
                        clear. No one has taught them, innocent souls as they are, that they are
                        monopolizing all the beauty to be found in the landscape, and that beauty
                        "lies in the eye of the beholder," and therefore it is the
                        property of all who see and claim it for their own.
                    My old fields lay stretched in warm spring sunshine, mellowing slowly; for in
                        the shelter of the forest they have not frozen and thawed repeatedly, as
                        when unprotected, so the wheat crop is sure.Old-fashioned Fields Among last year's
                        stubble great velvety mulleins stretch soft green leaves, and thistles prove
                        how hardy they are. The pasture shows living green all over, and as soon as
                        it is firm enough to bear the weight of stock the cattle that bellow
                        disconsolately in the barnyard on dry feed will race to it like mad
                        things.
                    
                    
                        
                            DANDELION
                        
                        
                            "Dear common flower, that grow'st beside the
                                way,
                            Fringing the dusty road with harmless gold,
                            First pledge of blithesome May,
                            Which children pluck, and, full of pride uphold,
                            High-hearted buccaneers, o'erjoyed that they
                            An Eldorado in the grass have found
                            Which not the rich earth's ample round
                            May match in wealth, thou art more dear to me
                            Than all the prouder summer-blooms may be."
                        
                        
                            Lowell.
                        
                    
                    
                    Northward bound wild geese dot the river bank with excrement as they pause
                        for a short rest in their migration. The bees rim the water-trough and drink
                        greedily, the guineas clatter, the old Shanghai rooster thrashes all his
                        male progeny into submission, and the turkey cock wears off the tips of his
                        wings with much strutting. The breath of earth, ice-tinged, rises to
                        commingle with the breath of heaven, pollen-laden, and all nature becomes
                        intoxicated with the combination. Later the sun drives the ice chill from
                        the air, and bloom-time comes, with almost cloying sweetness.
                    Of the ground flowers perhaps the sweet william is most fragrant, the locust
                        of trees, and the wild crab among shrubs, so they attract the musicians and
                        are the best choir-lofts. Not only is the wild crab of such delightful odor
                        that it long has been grown for the perfume of commerce, but it is more
                        beautiful of flower than wild plum, cherry, or any of the haws. Its blossoms
                        are not closely grouped, but hang from long, graceful stems, a few in a
                        cluster. They have more color than any white tree bloom, being a strong red
                        up to the day of opening. The unfolded flowers are a delicate salmon-pink
                        inside, and retain the red on the outside. Their perfume calls wild and
                        domesticated bees, bumblebees, wasps, and hornets, sweat bees, and every
                        insect that ever paused at pollen and honey for a treat.
                    
                    Much has been written about field flowers, and many poets and nature-lovers
                        have celebrated their favorites.The Lion's Tooth I sing for dandelions.
                        If we had to import them and they cost us five dollars a plant, all of us
                        would grow them in pots. Because they are the most universal flower of field
                        and wood, few people pause to see how lovely they are. In the first place,
                        the plant is altogether useful. The root is a fine blood-purifier. To a less
                        extent the leaves partake of the same property, and they are beautiful; long
                        and slender, reminding some scientist of the ragged teeth of a
                        lion"dent de leon"dandelion. They are of dark green color
                        when full-grown, pale yellow-green at half growth, and if at all sheltered,
                        almost white when young. Properly cooked, there is nothing better to eat.
                        The bloom is a flat, round, thickly-petaled head of gold, dusted with pollen
                        that the bees gather, and it gives a delicious tang to honey.
                    After a few days of bloom the flowers draw into tightly-closed heads, and
                        stand maturing the seed. At the same time the stems rapidly
                            lengthen, to lift the heads high where the wind can have free play
                        upon them. Then at a touch, always when we are not looking, the heads open
                        into perfect balls of misty white. These stand like crystal globes for a
                        short time, ripening, and then the wind harvests the seed and sows it
                        broadcast, so that the dandelion is the most universal flower that 
                        
                            
                                ONE OF MY FARMS
                            
                            
                                "There comes a pefume from the sunset land,
                                And from the sunset uapor comes a voice;
                                Some one in evening's gateway seems to stand,
                                And o'er a flood of glory shout,
                                    'Rejoice!'"
                            
                            
                                Thompson.
                            
                        
                         grows and the most democratic. Watch the
                        wonderful provision of nature in this rapid lengthening of the flower stems
                        so the wind may scatter the seeds far and wide, and doubt the providence of
                        God if you can.
                    The flowers show a creamy, pale yellow in the forest, darker colors and
                        strong green leaves in the swamps, deep yellow and thrifty around the
                        fields, over every hill, and in every hollow. Dandelions creep into gardens
                        and barn lots, and bloom along the roads to the very wheel tracks,
                        everywhere developing as their environment will allow; but wherever placed,
                        by some miracle making sufficient growth to mature a golden head and
                        perpetuate their family. Just this yellow of dandelion is the most beautiful
                        color in all the world. It is like strong sunshine, without which our world
                        soon would congeal. Perhaps it is the color God loves best, for He has made
                        the most of His flowers yellow. And He so has arranged the procession that
                        it marches through the season dominating other colors wherever it goes, and
                        it travels everywhere.
                    Yellow covers the breast of earth in dainty sorrel, violets, six or seven
                        species of cinquefoil, and adder's tongue. It lifts its gold banner
                        high in orchis, crested and fringed; ladies' tresses, and
                        lady's slippers. It waves high in the well-known saffron, mullein,
                        goldenrod of many varieties, several 
                        marigolds, and foxglove. At half that height glow buttercups, cowslips,
                        black-eyed susans, beggar's lice, snapdragons, jewel flowers, and
                        touch-me-nots. There are several yellow lilies of the field and two of the
                        water. Large spaces are covered with wild mustard, while sunflowers and
                        tansy grow all along the roadside.
                    Then there is the less-known water plantain and crowfoot, several poppies,
                        and golden cory-dalis, two species of water cress, saxifrage, and
                        goat's beard.The
                            Gold of God There is yellow avens, wild indigo, rattle-box, and
                        at least two varieties of clover. Also wild senna, partridge pea, yellow
                        flax, and yellow mallow. There must be a dozen species of St.
                        John's-wort; and frostweed, seedbox, and sun-drops. That is an
                        exquisite name, and should be applied to all yellow flowers, to indicate
                        that the sun has dropped of her gold to paint their faces. There are several
                        differing parsnips and loose strife. Also butterfly weed, which seems a
                        contradiction of terms; toad flax, yellow rattle, wild honeysuckle, yellow
                        asters, elecampane, and artichoke to end with, in the fear of growing
                        tiresome; but this is not nearly a complete list of the gold of God, for it
                        does not even touch the rarest exhibition that He gives.
                    This comes at the time of the blooming of the forest, in the mist and shimmer
                        of early spring. Then every tree that bears nut, berry, or seed 
                        
                            
                                FIELD DAISIES
                            
                            
                                Where the daisies march in white procession down the
                                    hill
                                And the notes of the bubbling bobolink are never still.
                            
                        
                         blooms profusely. These flowers, as a rule,
                        are not attractive singly. They are a little golden-green cluster or a
                        fringe something like a willow catkin in shape, only longer, and each is
                        covered with such tiny blooms so thickly placed that it requires a glass to
                        analyze them correctly. A single bloom or a bunch of bloom or a branch is
                        not much; but an entire forestno, more than thata world of it, is a
                        different matter.
                    This bloom comes at a time when our sense of color is sated with the grays
                        and whites of winter and our lungs are starved with the stuffy artificial
                        heating of most of our homes.When the Trees Bloom It opens when the season is breaking and
                        our hearts are mellowed with the change. The trees flower when the leaves
                        are just beginning to unfold. Few of them are an inch long, and they are
                        nearly as bright with yellow, pink, and silvery white as they are with
                        green; and all their green is more strongly tinged with yellow at that time
                        than ever again until they change color in the fall.
                    So when all the trees of earth are covered sparsely with golden-green leaves,
                        and hung closely with bloom of gold, powdered deeply with dust of gold, the
                        color is in the very air. All the world is sprinkled with it. If from some
                        elevation you can reach a level with the top of the forest you will behold a
                        sea of gold washing gently under waves of enchanted air, for the touch of
                        ice still  lingers, and it is perfumed with
                        the pungent fragrance of these blossoms. Then the dormant bees awake and
                        come pouring from hollow tree and hive to their great festival. No insects
                        are playing or singing to rival the swarming gold and black performers; the
                        birds have not yet returned to drown undulant humming with floods of song.
                        The "little busy bee" comes down to the footlights and
                        captures an appreciative audience. But the bee cares nothing for the
                        generous applause that always greets his first appearance. Dishevelled with
                        backing from flower clusters, his head and wings powdered with gold, his
                        burden-bearing legs high piled with gold, he goes humming on his way. If
                        there is anything in the idea of coloration by association, he appears to be
                        striped with the darkness of his hollow-tree home and the gold of the pollen
                        in which he constantly immerses himself. His mumbling, humming bumble opens
                        the great song festival of the fields.
                    After a day or two, when the blossoms are ripe, the pollen dust loosens. It
                        sifts over the fields, burnishes the breast of lake and pond with a sheet of
                        gold, and sails on the surface of the river. Throughout the summer season
                        nature revels in gold, but now it submerges her. She is covered from head to
                        foot. She breathes it, she bathes in it. No wonder the coats of the bees
                        that live upon pollen are striped with it! So beneficent is the influence
                            
                        
                            
                                A CLOUD MUSICIAN
                            
                            
                                'The mother lark that is brooding
                                Feels the sun on her wings,
                                And the deeps of the noonday glitter
                                With swarms of fairy things."
                            
                            
                                Taylor.
                            
                        
                         of this gold bath that all creation has
                        become intoxicated with it for centuries. Poets sing it, artists paint it,
                        and natural historians wrestle with itthus.
                    It appeals to me that this would be a fine time to celebrate the New
                            Year.The New
                            New-Year Why should we call the first of January the
                        "New Year?" There is nothing new about a continuation of
                        the same dead, shut-in winter season. Why go around crying, "Happy
                        New Year!" when nothing is new and people are least happy of all
                        their lives?
                    But when winter flees at the awakening of spring, when March winds arouse us,
                        when earth thrusts up tender growth to signal us that she is ready for
                        seed-bearing, when nature is given a new robe, the sky pure air; when the
                        birds come home, animals creep from hibernation, and the Almighty showers
                        His gold,everything is refreshed, even the oldest hearts of us. Just for the
                        sake of consistency the year should be new when the earth awakens, when
                        human as well as bird, insect, and animal hearts are glad, when the soul is
                        uplifted, when for a few days all nature is rich enough literally to bathe
                        in gold.
                    Among the few musicians that have arrived at this time in birdland the
                        skylark soars pre-eminent. Not that he is more beautiful than his fellows,
                        although he comes in time to stripe his head and cover his heart with the
                        choicest of the gold. The  brightness of his
                        crown is emphasized by alternating dark stripes, and his breastplate becomes
                        radiant in contrast with a dark collar. His back covering is a mixture of
                        dark-brown, gray, and gray-brown. The wings are the same, touched with
                        white, and the middle feathers of the tail are similar, the shorter outer
                        ones tipped with white. His habitat appears to be heaven, and his home
                        earth, which certainly seems contradictory. But it is true. He is a bird of
                        as constant flight as the kingfisher, and of such exalted height that he is
                        often lost to our vision above the clouds. The kingfisher seldom rises above
                        the treetops, the lark scarcely ever falls below. He is the oracle of high
                        places, and sings from greater altitude than any other bird. That very fact
                        may give distinction to him.
                    His notes, syllabicated as well as possible in the words that of all others
                        seem most appropriate, "Spring o' ye-ar!" is the
                        best-loved bird-song in our country, and the more he slurs it and rings in
                        the half plaintive tone that characterizes it, the more it is
                            appreciated.Cloud
                            Musicians There is a lark out in the center of this country that
                        greatly surpasses ours in song, although it appears and acts very similar.
                        The difference in the character of the notes is detected instantly by
                        travelers. The bird of the Ne-braska alfalfa fields has the same slurring
                        modulations, but his song is several measures longer. He sings,
                        "Come here! Spring o' ye-ar!" and 
                        
                            
                                ELECAMPANE
                            
                            
                                Its thrifty stalks thrust high their heads,
                                Flowers of pale gold to flourish.
                                Its roots sink deeply into earth,
                                Large, blue-green leaves to nourish.
                            
                        
                         sometimes that is all of the melody, and
                        again he adds, as if in afterthought, "My de-ar!"
                    Certain it is that the lark is not the greatest musician. In pure, serene,
                        soul-piercing melody the hermit thrush surpasses him; also the wood robin,
                        brown thrush, mocking-bird, and several others. Nevertheless to half the
                        people of earth the lark is the sweetest of bird songsters. There must be a
                        reason, for his notes will not compare with many rivals; so one must look
                        elsewhere for the source of his popularity.
                    For one thing, while doves and bluebirds arrive as early, his is the first
                        universal song our longing ears hear in the spring. There are times when to
                        be first in the field is half the battle. He is trailing his notes, clear
                        and easily syllabicated, back and forth across heaven, over town and
                        village, and even above great cities, before any other bird is heard,
                        unless, indeed, you except the cry of the killdeer. Then his soring
                        propensity, the fact that he drops a note from above cloud, gives ground for
                        the belief that he picked it up there. If a canvass were made of the people
                        of earth as to their favorite bird, it is sure that a large majority of them
                        would vote for the lark. That this preference is founded on sentiment rather
                        than fact has nothing to do with the case. Because he is common, friendly,
                        and sings first and nearest heaven, he is the bird of the people. Neither
                        does  the fact that not one-tenth of these
                        same lark-lovers ever heard the song of the hermit thrush have anything to
                        do with the case. They prefer the lark because they so love him they are
                        convinced they yet would like him best if they did hear the thrush.
                    From their choir-loft one would suppose that elms were not high enough to
                        furnish larks a nesting-place.Earth-born Singers That is the great surprise about them.
                        Because he whistles close earth, and brings forth his young on its breast,
                        the quail seems consistent. Because the lark sings nearest heaven one would
                        expect him to have the nesting habits of the wood pewee. But he drops
                        abruptly to earth, bare earth, and in the shelter of a
                        grassy hummock or amidst the growing clover or wheat establishes a home. His
                        mate turns on the point of her breast until she wears out a hollow that she
                        lines, and often roofs, with dry grasses, leaving her door to the east, in
                        most instances, as my observation has proved. From four to six eggs are
                        depositedmore often sixand almost always the brood comes off safely.
                    Larks are secretive and shy about their building. They always walk several
                        yards under cover of the grasses on leaving their nests before they take
                        wing, and return to them in the same manner, so that when you see a lark
                        alight you are not sure he is within a rod of his home in any direction. 
                        
                            
                                THE HOME OF THE HOP-TOAD
                            
                            
                                Nestled by my cabin's damp stone wall
                                Where wild rose petals softly fall,
                                Old Hop-Toad sleeps throughout the day,
                                But at night he's a hunter, alert and gay.
                            
                        
                         Because they are accustomed to seeing only
                        open, level meadow it is very difficult to place a camera close or win their
                        confidence sufficiently to be able to make studies of them. Every brooding
                        song-bird sits on the point of the breast, and where an arched cup also
                        raises the long tail the mother has a cramped, spread-out appearance. This
                        one brooded on six eggs and brought off her young safely.
                    There is a shade of yellow on the breast of a young lark when it takes wing,
                        that has escaped commerce, and it is infinitely more delicate and beautiful
                        than the nearest approach to it. There is another exquisite yellow, not yet
                        in use, on the face of a freshly opened false foxglove, and another on
                        unclosing buckeye buds. An unusual yellow can be found in the bloom of
                        elecampane.
                    This magnificent plant grows from five to six feet high, in big round stems,
                        having long, hairy, blue-green leaves of a frosty appearance, that surround
                        the stem at their base and curve off gracefully to the tip.Four New Yellows The
                        flower has a round head, with irregular, straggling petals of beautiful
                        yellow that harmonize exquisitely with the leaves. Here is another plant
                        that I am sure the artists of Japan do not know, else before this all of us
                        would have become familiar with it in screen decorations. I can recall no
                        statelier growth, no leaf form more impressive.
                    
                    In my home all my literary and artistic efforts have a critic; the keenest
                        they ever know: one who cuts to the bone and spares not.My Critic She is actuated solely by
                        love. Being sensitive to criticisms from other sources, she would point out
                        all the flaws in my work herself, and so prevent others from seeing them too
                        late to be avoided.
                    "You never are going to put in that hop-toad!" she
                        exclaims.
                    "Why not?"
                    "Because this is a music-book, and the song of a hop-toad is not
                        worth mentioning."
                    "Well, if it can not sing much it can set a poet singing, which
                        amounts to the same thing, Listen!" 
                            "Howdy, Mister Hop-Toad! Glad to see you out!
                            Bin a month o' Sundays sence I see you hereabout.
                            Mister Hop-Toad, honest-true-Springtime-don't you love
                                it?
                            You old rusty rascal you, at the bottom of it!
                            Swell that fat old throat o' yourn and lemme see you
                                swaller;
                            Straighten up and h'ist your head! You don't owe a
                                dollar!
                            Hulk, sulk, and blink away, you old bloat-eyed rowdy!
                            Hain't you got a word to say? Won't you tell me
                                howdy?''
                        
                    
                    Why should a hop-toad have a voice,The Song of the Hop-Toad or strain his throat,
                        when he can compel a poet to sing for him like that? Burns sang for a louse
                        and a field mouse, Bryant for a mosquito, Emerson for the 
                        
                            
                                HOP-TOAD
                            
                            
                                "Mr. Hop-Toad, honest trueSpringtimedon't
                                    you love it?
                                You old rustp rascal you, at the bottom of
                                    it!"
                            
                            Riley.
                        
                         bumblebee; the poet who put the snail into
                        metrical measure preferred to remain anonymous, and other writers have
                        ranged through nature and lifted their voices for almost every living
                        creature; but when our own Riley brought every reader of his lines down to
                        earth and in harmony with a hoptoad, he sang the greatest song of all, for
                        they occupy a place with humanity set aside for caterpillars, snakes, and
                        bats. From time immemorial men have shuddered on seeing a toad. In
                        connection with it such pleasing fiction has been cultivated as that to
                        touch one would develop warts on your fingers and make your cow give bloody
                        milk. Also they were a component part of the brews compounded by
                        witches.
                    These silly superstitions, passed from generation to generation, were
                        splendid protection to the toad. Let it alone! Who wanted warts on his
                        fingers and blood in his milk? You may be very sure it was left alone.
                        "It's a toad! Don't touch it!" rang the
                        cry.
                    So the hop-toad homes in the bushes and under the vines, sleeping during the
                        heat of the day, and coming out in the evening for his food. He consumes
                        untold numbers of gnats, mosquitoes, small flies, fireflies, and tiny worms
                        on grass blades. The home that boasts a hop-toad is particularly fortunate,
                        for he is a great scavenger, and his welcome should be hearty. For years we
                        have had  one that lived throughout the summer
                        season among the rosebushes along the line fence west of the cabin, and no
                        doubt hibernated somewhere on the premises. This past summer the same one,
                        or another similar, moved around to the orchard and slept among some
                        sunflowers and wild roses shading my bedroom window. My critic found him,
                        and came racing to know if I wanted his picture, but later she objected to
                        having it used in this book. The poem reconstructed her, as it should every
                        one.
                    You will find it in complete form in the "Home
                        Folk's" volume of Riley's poems, and if you do
                        not own the book, get it at once and learn what you have missed. As has been
                        explained, the hoptoad is one of our home folks and lives very close, within
                        a few feet of us, and works as diligently for our comfort as the martins of
                        the windmill, that, with bats and flycatchers, clear the air overhead of
                        insect pests.
                    There is perpetual amazement in the amount of natural history a poet
                            knows.What Poets
                            Know Does he make an especial study of it or does he see so
                        clearly that an object is photographed on his brain and he writes of it
                        without knowing that he has impoverished the text-books? Take this poem by
                        James Whitcomb Riley. It is a song of three stanzas, with a uniform refrain
                        to each. From it you learn the fact that the toad has hibernated; the season
                        of his appearance, his location, and his characteristics. 
                        
                            
                                MOONSEED VINE
                            
                            
                                We plant and trim and train our vines,
                                Shaping them into wondrous designs;
                                But God's go sprawling wild and free,
                                Over wayside fence and tree.
                            
                        
                         In personal appearance, you are told that he
                        has a rusty back, a habit of ducking his head, a full throat, the palpitant
                        motion of which is touched upon, as are his warts, and his
                        "bloat" eyes; while in the question,
                        "S'pose I want to 'flict you any more
                        'an what you air?" is encompassed a volume on his social
                        status.
                    I wish that every person in the world were compelled to read this poem in
                        order to attain a rational attitude concerning so valuable a friend and
                        neighbor as the hop-toad, in the first place; and in the second, to come to
                        a realization of the things that lie at the bottom of the bubbling fountain
                        in the heart of a poet. I have had undisputed possession of all the
                        hop-toads in my vicinity since my birth; so the feeling that I had been
                        patted on the head and personally commended came to me on first reading this
                        exquisite song.
                    Every grain field of earth has its choral union, but it long has been a study
                        of mine to decide which musicians have the loveliest environment.My Oat-Field I was
                        strongly attracted with wheat; corn, rye, buckwheat, all had weighty
                        consideration, and clover almost tipped the scales of my judgment in its
                        favor, but after years of deliberation the choice has fallen on oats. This
                        decision rests solely on artistic merit. The market value of a subject that
                        furnishes me a picture or sings me a song is of no consideration. Is it
                        beautiful? Does it touch  the heart? Does it
                        stir the imagination and force expression to the lips? If so, it is past
                        monetary value.
                    We are not dealing with model farms, and so in the beginning the upturned
                        earth of my oat field is beautiful, because at the heels of the plowman
                        follow larks, blackbirds, bluebirds, and robins picking grubs; and the warm
                        spring air is vibrant with their notes.Moon-seed on a Snake Fence The field is enclosed
                        by a straggling old snake-fence overgrown with carrion vine and moonseed;
                        the corners filled with alder, wild rose, milkweed, saffron, and wild
                        mustard, and interlaced with dodder in myriads of fine gold threads. There
                        are big forest trees all around it, making a hedge reaching heavenward.
                        Every insect and bird of the field homes there, and the river singing along
                        on one side adds not only its voice, but the notes of kingfisher, killdeer,
                        sheilpoke, and sandpiper.
                    From a few inches in height the growing oats show a rare blue-green color
                        with frosty lights, seen in no other grain. When the lacy heads are almost
                        matured, and nodding "Good-day" to the level rays of the
                        setting sun, and bowing "Good-evening" to the white lights
                        of the rising moon; when one at a time thousands of fireflies rise from
                        earth, light their lanterns, and begin the business of life; when numberless
                        insects play or sing; when the big trees rock softly, cradling sleeping 
                        
                            
                                MY OAT-FIELD
                            
                            
                                When the foxfire burns beside the river,
                                The crickets sing under tawny leaves,
                                And grasshopper fiddles solemnly quiver,
                                While the harvesters gather the sheaves.
                            
                        
                         birds, and the river whispers their
                        lullaby,the oat field is the most beautiful on God's footstool, and
                        it is alive with musicians.
                    A few days later, when blue tints give place to the gold of approaching
                        ripeness, it is lovely in a warm, mellow way.The Song of the Sheaves Because
                        there is unlimited sameness in a field of growing grain a photographic study
                        of it is not pleasing. The time to reproduce it is when the cutting is over
                        and the harvest stands in shocks, from the canopy of which crickets sing, a
                        million in unison. Locusts hum in the big trees, wild doves coo from the
                        thicket across the river, the clacking reaper rattles a rhythmic
                        accompaniment, and my partners, bending over the sheaves, touch the scene
                        with life and color. I never see harvesters cutting grain that I do not
                        think of a command uttered by Moses three thousand years ago: "And
                        when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the
                        corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of the
                        harvest." Moses intended these gleanings to remain for the
                        "poor and the stranger." In my country gleanings fall to
                        the birds, since these fields know neither the poor nor the stranger.
                        Harvesting scenes are so touched with life, music, and color that they
                        always have been great favorites with artists and poets. The most vivid
                        shirt of a workman or the red 'kerchief knotted around his throat
                        is not  so brilliant, however, as the pageant
                        of color marching adown the old snake-fence.
                    To the whites of alder and the pink of wild rose are added the lavender of
                        beard's tongue, the blue of bellflower, nodding plumy heads of
                        meadow rue, and, scattered here and there, wild tiger lilies.Wild Lilies These bear
                        the palm for brilliant color. The flowers are so artistic that decorators
                        almost have worn them out for art purposes, and yet no one has reproduced
                        them with all the beauty of one wild bed I know.
                    These lilies grow in rather damp, sandy places, sometimes in real swamp,
                        sometimes on land that would seem too high and dry for them. They have
                        brilliant orange-red faces, thickly freckled with brown. The bud is a long
                        point, the half-unfolded bloom a trumpet, the full-blown flower curls its
                        petals so far back it almost turns inside out and fully displays the grace
                        of the long stamens and pistil. In damp ground the flower color is paler,
                        and the stems and buds longer. They are of deeper red and lower growth in
                        dry locations; but in half moist, half sandy soil they reach perfection.
                    For three years from passing railroad trains I had seen the finest bed of
                        these lilies of all my experience,A Moving Flower-bed on land owned by the company,
                        just inside the fence enclosing rather deep woods, a mile or two below the
                        village of Ceylon, beside the 
                        
                            
                                "BRANDS OF THE NOONTIDE BEAM"
                            
                            
                                "The lily with the sprinkled dots,
                                Brands of the moontide beam;
                                The cardinal, and the blood-red spots,
                                Its double in the stream."
                            
                            
                                Holmes.
                            
                        
                         Long farm. This season, when a study of them
                        was wanted in their prime, the cameras were loaded, and the trip made in all
                        confidencenot a lily was to be found, nor the ghost of a lily. Even more,
                        the embankment next the woods was cut away at least a foot in depth, and
                        leveled. Then began a search all over my country for a large bed of them,
                        with no results. A week had not helped matters, when my critic came from a
                        drive and announced that beside the railroad, half way to Bryant, was a
                        superb growth of lilies that, she thought, was just what I wanted. She
                        brought one for a sample, and she was not mistaken.
                    So great was the fear that flower hunters might gather them or railroad
                        employees mow the land that the trip was made in the rain. A glance showed
                        what had happened. The railroad company had cut down the embankment beside
                        the Long farm and filled in a low place near the Limberlost crossing with
                        the earth. In so doing they had transplanted my lilies, and greatly to the
                        advantage of the flowers; for here they were in a moist location, and were
                        shaded all the long, hot afternoons. As a result these lilies prove that
                        they grew in closer clusters, taller, and with blooms very nearly twice the
                        size of the average wild lily. After the studies were secured and the
                        flowers were needed no longer, they peeped at me from several fence corners
                        around the Limberlost, Canoper,  and Valley of
                        the Wood Robin, just beyond which lay my finest field of oats.
                    The bees and all kinds of flies and insects were attracted to it by the
                        blooms along the fence; birds of every field family sought the insects, the
                        berries of the bushes, and water.Grain-field Vocalists Lift a shock of oats, and
                        thousands of black field crickets poured from under it. Touch any weed or
                        swaying clover head, and a grasshopper sprang from it as if shot from a
                        catapult, while the chorus of those scattered over the field made a constant
                        minor to louder notes. So the oats field had more than a fair share of
                        inhabitants, and almost without exception they were musicians that joined
                        the choir, and sang and played incomparably.
                    Grasshoppers are extremely interesting. They are good-natured, clean, and
                        industrious. They must be naturally musical, for they need not sing all day
                        and half the night unless they choose. At least one would not think their
                        notes compulsory, and the production of them appears to be work.
                        Grasshoppers seem to be enclosed in a coat of mail, so firm and hard is the
                        striped, glassy covering. They make music with the stiff wing-shields by
                        half raising and rubbing them at the base. The notes are a queer
                        "Zerrrrrrrrrrrrrrr" of a sound, increasing in volume for a
                        few seconds, and then falling away in three slow, distinct notes,
                        "Tink, tink, tink."
                    
                    
                        
                            THE LANDLORD OF THE FIELDS
                        
                        
                            "Thou dost drink and dance and sing,
                            Happier than the happiest king!
                            All the fields which thou dost see,
                            All the plants belong to thee;
                            All the summer hours produce,
                            Fertile made with early Juice.
                            Man for thee does sow and plow,
                            Farmer he, and landlord thou!"
                        
                        
                            Anacrean.
                        
                    
                    
                    They are cleanly, else they would not be washing forever.The Field
                            "Water-Baby" It almost appears at times as if
                        they must carry a Lady Macbeth curse, that they try to wash away. They wash
                        their antennae, heads, bodies, wings, each of their four small feet, and
                        then the long, springboard legs and larger feet. After a few bites of
                        pollen, plant-juice, or any dead insects upon which they may happen, they
                        wash again. They are the genuine "water babies" of the
                        fields, and the most insistent musicians. Sometimes they like the open
                        fields, but a little search among the grasses and flowers around the old
                        snake-fences will prove hoppers even more numerous there. This may be
                        because the rails and bushes afford protection from bird enemies.
                    The unusually wet season of 1907 did many queer things afield, none more
                        amazing than the growth it made possible among some flowers of low habit.
                        Botanists tell you that beard-tongue (Pentstemon
                        pubescens) grows from one foot to a foot and a third. At that height to
                        the casual observer it is almost lost among the grasses and undergrowth.
                        This season many people called my attention to a delicately colored, lacy,
                        exquisite flower they never before had seen. It was beard-tongue, growing
                        all through the Limberlost, along Canoper way, in Rainbow Bottom, and around
                        the fields, to the height of the top of seven-rail fences. It sprang up a
                        smooth, thrifty stalk, grew slender  green
                        leaves, and unusually large pale lavender flowers of much grace and
                        beauty.
                    The blooms are a trumpet-shaped corolla, with two escallops turning up and
                        three down.Beard-tongue There is a stamen, covered with long hairs, and
                        fertilized by the pollen it gathers from the down of visiting butterflies
                        and bees. From this organ the plant takes its name, beard-tongue. Many
                        people unacquainted with a natural growth gathered and were enthusiastic
                        over it at the height of a fence. It was very beautiful bordering grain
                        fields, nowhere more so than around the oats where this study was made.
                    While birds and insects hover over these old snake-fences, the squirrels race
                        along them and frightened cotton-tails sail between the rails like skilled
                        acrobats. Rabbits burrow their nests in grain fields and pastures, and
                        beside the fences under the cover of bottom rails and stumps of dead trees.
                        Close harvest time their young appear. Mere youth and helplessness make its
                        appeal. The nestlings of song birds are ugly, naked little creatures, blind,
                        and agape. But again, some ground buildersthe quail, rail, and many water
                        birdsare able to travel on leaving their shells, and are irresistible balls
                        of fluff. Newly-born rabbits and squirrels are blind and unattractive, but
                        when led forth to support themselves are beautiful and trustingly innocent.
                        A few days' contact with the 
                        
                            
                                BEARD-TONGUE
                            
                            
                                "There's beard on your tongue!"
                                    laughed the lily,
                                As she tossed her head with wild grace.
                                "Laugh all you choose!" said
                                    Pentstemon,
                                "There's freckles all over
                                    your face!"
                            
                        
                         world teaches them so many painful lessons
                        they become wild and shy as their elders.
                    When this young cotton-tail no longer felt the need of the blanket his mother
                        had raked her sides to furnish, he trustingly came out to the big world and
                        on a strip of bank posed for many studies.Molly Cotton He greedily nibbled leaves, washed
                        his face when he finished, with all the care of a grasshopper, and then
                        stretched himself for a sunbath. When his pictures were taken he was put
                        with the remainder of his family at the edge of the oats. It must be that
                        rabbits escape their natural enemies with much skill, or else they breed in
                        untold numbers, for every fall and winter men slaughter them without mercy,
                        and each succeeding fall they seem to be quite as numerous.
                    Hunters say that despite speed in running they are silly creatures, and often
                        sit perfectly still, trusting to the resemblance of their fur to surrounding
                        dry grass and weeds to protect them, until they are killed. Not being a
                        hunter, I can tell little about these animals when pursued. If hunted with a
                        camera that is concealed and focused on the mouth of their burrow, and a few
                        apples, pieces of cabbage or carrots, of which they are especially fond,
                        left around, they tame rapidly and take many interesting poses. It is
                        doubtful if there is anything so wild that it is not susceptible to
                        judicious friendly advances. We read in the Book of  James, "For every kind of beasts,
                        and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath
                        been tamed of mankind."
                    In most cases this word "tamed" should be changed to
                            "broken."Caging the Wild When birds and beasts are trapped
                        in their wild estate, eaged and starved or beaten into non-resistance or
                        through familiarity endure the presence of men without signs of fear, they
                        are said to be "tamed." In fact, they are heart-broken for
                        home, starving for natural diet, and crazed for lack of space, so that they
                        are slowly dying, and too desolate to resist. Think of a bird that has
                        ranged the heavens from Canada to Patagonia reduced to the hop from perch to
                        perch and the folded wing estate of a two by three foot cageand that is
                        considered unusually large. Or of a beast that has roamed the forest and
                        marsh for miles being confined inside bars where it can not turn without
                        touching steel. Is it any wonder these "tamed" creatures
                        kill when they have opportunity? Our laws provide for the taming of
                        "wild" men in the same manner, and it is noticeable that
                        they, too, kill at the slightest chance for escape, if they do not lose
                        their reason and murder the first person they meet.
                    There is a shrub frequenting many of my fence corners that has escaped art
                        and that decorators do not know. I think it has great possibilities. It
                        grows to the average height of fence-corner 
                        
                            
                                MOLLY COTTON
                            
                            
                                "After lunch I wash my face
                                And go to have a romp
                                With other little Cotton-tails
                                Down in the Limberlost Swamp."
                            
                        
                         shrubs such as papaw and alder, and, if it
                        had opportunity, no doubt would make a medium-sized tree. The stems are
                        smooth and round, quite deeply indented in places with the strain of
                            growth.The Burning
                            Bush The leaves are large, nobly shaped, and variable in shades
                        of color; rather thick for a leaf, and pulpy. The blooms are little clusters
                        of white florets, not at all remarkable.
                    The shrub takes its name from the seed pods. These pods are scattered
                        sparsely over a bush, hang from long, graceful stems, and are divided into
                        three or four sections, the shape of which can be seen in the picture, the
                        color coral-pink. Each of these thirds or quarters, as the case may be,
                        contains a seed. When the seed is ripe the section opens, forcing the
                        triangles apart and displaying the flame-colored inside. This interior color
                        is the crowning glory and beauty of the bush, for which it is named. There
                        is no doubt at all but the scientist who classified it thought of Moses and
                        the "burning bush," and so gave that name to the
                        shrub.
                    This burning bush, to my knowledge, flourishes in half a dozen different
                        soils and locations, making me believe it would be particularly adaptive for
                        lawn ornamentation. These seed pods cling after the leaves fall, and give a
                        touch of brilliant color to their location that would be particularly
                        appreciated, for most of the bushes we buy of our  florists are a cluster of bare twigs in winter. When the pods
                        open, the membranes incasing the seed are bright carmine, exactly the shade
                        of the inner lining of Ebonymus Americanus.
                    
                    The shrubs and bushes beside these old fences are tenanted from leaf to
                        ground with life, and a volume of sound arises constantly from earth in the
                        summer time.What did Katy
                            do? The clearest enunciator and the handsomest insect of all is
                        the katy-did. What a very, very delightful thing it must have been that Katy
                        did! How her descendants rejoice in telling it over and over. It of
                        necessity had to be something wonderfully fine. In all the world there is
                        not enough rancor to sing of an evil deed adown all time since the morning
                        of creation. But this charming thing that Katy did has been celebrated from
                        the beginning, and will be to the end. Surely it was something big and
                        broad, beneficial to all her race, and the wide world as wellelse why are
                        her minstrels forever celebrating her act? It had to be something obvious,
                        too; for while they constantly affirm the deed, they never specify just what
                        was done, and this neglect must arise from the fact that they suppose all of
                        us know. I believe Katy was the first of her family to discover sound and
                        teach all of her relatives to voice the fullness of their joy in life on
                        their fiddles in such exquisite measure and inflection that they deceive
                        most of us into thinking it song. To have given 
                        
                            
                                BURNING BUSH
                            
                            
                                They thought how the Lord spoke to Moses,
                                When they saw its glowing flame,
                                And so they said to each other,
                                "Burning bush" shall be its
                                    name.
                            
                        
                         to her kin their medium of self-expression,
                        that would have entitled Katy to the immortality she has earned.
                    "Katy did!" triumphs one of her admirers, as if it were a
                        fact just discovered.
                    "Katy did it!" emphasizes another worshiper.
                    "Katy did!" corroborates a friend in the next bush.
                    "Katy did it!" iterates the first, with all assurance; and
                        the manner in which these exquisite insects can emphasize their notes is
                        marvelous. Not a bird of ornithology can speak plainer, betteraccented
                        English than they, not even the whip-poor-will; and no insects can approach
                        them. Compared with their clean-cut, distinctly enunciated syllables, all
                        the remainder of their insect relatives are mere scrapers, buzzers, and
                        hummers.
                    The remarkable thing about it is that the speech is made by the contact of
                        the glassy plates at the base of the wings, and in much the same manner as
                        the grasshopper produces his strident buzz.How Katy did it Because the fields seem to be the
                        true home of the katy-did does not prevent the family from scattering
                        widely. There are a few in the forest, many in the marshes, and from the
                        fields they come close country homes. Most of their music is made in August
                        and September, when they are matured, mating, and depositing their eggs.
                    No insect of their species is so beautiful as 
                        they. The adult is a solid green of pale color, yellowish in faint tints in
                        some lights, a dainty bluish in others.Katy's Costume The faceplate and wide
                        "choker" appear to be of the same glassy coat of mail as
                        those of the grasshopper. The legs are very long, and the hind pair has
                        claspers. The wings resemble deeply veined and grooved leaves, the musical
                        plates showing at the bases. The insect is very narrow of body, but quite
                        deep, and the back and abdomen are sharp ridges. The antennae are almost
                        twice the length of the body, and so hair-fine that a camera focused on a
                        katy-did does not record their full extent. With these they explore their
                        path, lightly touching objects before them to find footing and avoid danger.
                        Their greatest protection lies in their close resemblance to tender green
                        leaves.
                    They have what appears to be a stubby little tail turning up at the back.
                        This is the instrument with which they insert their eggs between the layers
                        of a green leaf in the fall. The leaf drops, and lies during the winter, and
                        the next summer the egg develops into a tiny katy-did, that emerges and sets
                        to work foraging on the under side of foliage. All that is accomplished by
                        growth in this insect is to become larger, as they are always shaped much
                        the same; possibly the young ones are of a more tender, yellowish green,
                        that changes to a bluish cast as they reach maturity.
                    
                    
                        
                            TALL MEADOW RUE
                        
                        
                            Of all the roadside flowers that Bloom
                            The old snake fence to hide
                            Tall meadow rue is the joy of June,
                            Its leacy graceful bride
                        
                    
                    
                    Katy-dids are immaculately clean, dainty insects. No other member of the
                        "hopper" group moves with such calm deliberation. They
                        have all the time there is, and seem to know it. They never hurry and are
                        wholly lacking in the nervous energy of the grasshopper, cricket, and
                        locust. So very deliberate are they that there is a possibility, fostered by
                        their constant wetting of the feet with a mucus they eject, that walking is
                        a difficult matter for them, and one to be accomplished only with great
                        caution. To my mind the katy-did is the handsomest, the best musician, and
                        the most interesting of all insects anywhere near its family.
                    From the frequent overflowing of the river, that not only decays but washes
                        away rails, one side of my oat field is profaned by a short stretch of wire
                            fence.The Snake
                            Fence This is to be forgiven only because, as can be seen so
                        clearly, it is necessary. Then, too, it is in such a damp, shaded place that
                        no harm whatever results. The vines and bushes almost cover the wire, and
                        queer long-legged water birds tilt and rock when they try to perch on it.
                        Where it escapes the river the old rail fence still stands, and every year
                        clothes it with richer beauty and brings italas! like all the remainder of
                        the worldnearer the end.
                    I have cause for quarrel with scientists who named many of our flowers and
                        vines. It seems at times as if they tried themselves, as witness: 
                        monkey flower, butterfly weed, jewelweed
                            toad-flax, and carrion vine.Incongruous Flower Names
                        Of all the decorations that entwine these old fences none is more beautiful
                        than the carrion vine. But what a name! Enough to prejudice any one. All
                        because the ball of greenish-yellow bloom has a faint pungent odor that
                        impressed Linnaeus, or some other early writer, as slightly disagreeable. It
                        can not be so very noxious, either, for the bees should know their business,
                        and they gather its pollen eagerly. God put that pungent, almost sour odor
                        in some flowers to cut the cloying sweetness of others, and make honey
                        edible.
                    So this beautiful vine is disgraced, and there are so many more appropriate
                        names it might have borne quite as well. It is difficult to understand why a
                        slightly unusual odor of the flower should have been emphasized, while the
                        exquisite cutting and texture of the leaves is overlooked. They are
                        heart-shaped at the base, curving off to a long lance-point, of delicate
                        texture, and of lovely shades of green that vary as the light falls on them.
                        So why not name it "lance leaf" or "golden
                        globe," either of which is quite as appropriate as carrion vine and
                        not suggestive of anything objectionable.
                    Another common, but peculiar vine of my territory is wild yam, the dried seed
                        pods of which form nature's best rattlebox. Dioscorea
                            Villosa is a great beauty. Its leaves are a perfect heartshape 
                        
                            
                                WILD SAFFRON
                            
                            
                                "Lavish my gold on the earth," cried the
                                    Lord:
                                "Color the stately saffron head,
                                Paint the dandelion and Illy cup,
                                And burnish the marsh flower bed!"
                            
                        
                         as a heart is conventionalized, and so deeply
                        veined that their golden-green surfaces catch the light in hills and
                        hollows. Where the vine grows in bright sunlight along the road these leaves
                        are so closely set they overlap like the scales on a fish. Its bloom is
                        insignificant, the male flowers drooping clusters, the female spike-like
                        heads. The seeds are small triangles, and a number of them are placed on a
                        long stem. When these are dry and shaken by winter winds they make as good
                        music as the hop tree.
                    Another old snake fence corner pet of mine, that flourishes in cultivation,
                        and that is dignified and an artistic plant, is wild saffron.Wild Saffron It bears
                        transplanting well, and if its location and soil are at all congenial, in a
                        few years it grows into a most attractive bush. It reaches from three to
                        four feet in height, many shoots upspringing from the same root. The stems
                        are round, smooth, and even, with a slight yellow tint to their green, that
                        extends to the leaves also. These are set at different places, and point in
                        all directions. They are very graceful, as each is made up of twenty small
                        leaves set on a midrib. Approaching the top, the last nine or ten have a
                        small spray of bloom branching from their bases.
                    These little bloom-sprays and the large crown of the plant are masses of
                        small individual yellow flowers having five cuppy petals of unequal length,
                             and anthers so dark-brown as to be
                        mistaken for black at a casual glance. Both the leaves and the
                        bloom-clusters help to give it a delicate, lacy appearance. I can not so
                        describe the flowers as to paint an adequate idea of their richness. The
                        separate sprays at the leaf bases appear lighter yellow than the massive
                        head and show the individual flowers better. The crown is a conical mist of
                        gold accented by touches of almost black. Saffron is a stately and
                        distinguished plant of great beauty in the fence corners, where it has a
                        struggle to preserve its individuality among the masses of growth around it.
                        On a lawn its every feature of distinction would be enbanced.
                    One point that should be of especial interest to those who wish to try the
                        cultivation of wild flowers and trees on their premises, is the range of
                        color in the mid-summer and fall species. Many people relying on cultivated
                        shrubs and flowers grow a mass of spring and early summer bloom, and have
                        bare shrubs and leafless vines in fall and winter. The field flowers are a
                        blaze of color all summer until frost, and there are several vines, bushes,
                        and trees that are brilliant with seeds and berries throughout the
                        winter.
                    Few words of our language are more suggestive of peace and comfort than
                            "pasture."Green Pastures
                        Pastorem, a green feeding-ground, according to the old
                        Latins. And wherever there is a green feeding 
                        
                            
                                GREEN PASTURES
                            
                            
                                "He maketh me to lie down in green
                                    pastures"
                                Like the cattle on daisy-flecked hill,
                                He leadeth me gently toward Him,
                                Beside the waters so still,
                            
                        
                         ground you may be very sure you will find the
                        shade of trees and bushes, and frequently there is running water. Wherever
                        you locate these you hear a swelling bird and insect chorus. From the dawn
                        of history men in travel and in burden-bearing have been very dependent on
                        their beasts, and so have sought to make suitable provision for them. This
                        setting off a space of growing food for stock is without date, and over and
                        over the chroniclers of the Bible made use of the comparison of the care of
                        men for their flocks with the care of God for men.
                    "The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down
                        in green pastures; He leadeth me beside the still waters."
                    The bodily comfort we give to our beasts made the basis of a comparison with
                        the spiritual comfort God gives us, in one of the most beautiful expressions
                        ever portrayed in language, "He maketh me to lie down in green
                        pastures." Before the eye rises the picture of a lush, green meadow
                        sprinkled with daisies and dotted with buttercups; the lark overhead, and
                        the full-fed cattle lyingpictures of contentment in the shade of the
                        newlyleafing trees that ring with the songs of courting birds. The thought
                        of a pasture is in some way connected with spring; perhaps because, as at no
                        other time, the cattle cry for it, and beg piteously to be released to
                        natural food. At that time the pastures are green; later they may not be.
                        Then  the cattle, dry-fed during the long
                        winter, graze and graze until they become so fat the milk they give grows
                        richer, and housewives make what they call "clover"
                        butter.
                    When man treats the beasts that sustain and enrich him with the consideration
                        he would like were he a beast, we have one of the very highest signs of the
                        grace of God in the human heart.A Sign of God in the Heart This study was made at
                        almost four o'clock in the afternoo, when the cattle, after a day
                        of grazing, were lying in fullfed content. It was so early in the season
                        that hickory and late-leafing trees were bare, but already the stock sought
                        for their resting-place the shade afforded by maple and
                        elms.
                    There was no real necessity for shelter. The heat was not sufficient to worry
                        them, but the inclination to lie in the shade was instinctive. Scattered
                        around this pasture and in almost every fence corner there grows a tree for
                        the express purpose of providing comfort for the stock and a choir-loft for
                        field musicians. How the cattle appreciate this can be seen by their
                        gathering to lie in the strip of light shade in the early spring! If they
                        seek a sheltered spot when they really do not need it, what would become of
                        them in the burning heat of July and August without it? How the birds love
                        it they tell you in their notes of bubbling ecstasy.
                    Not far from this pasture are the grazing lands 
                        
                            
                                SHELTERED, WATERED PASTURE
                            
                            
                                "I envy the stream, as it glides along
                                Through its beautiful banks in a trance of
                                    song."
                            
                            Bryant.
                        
                         of some "progressive"
                        farmers. These fields are enclosed in straight wire fences, guiltless of a
                        leaf for shelter, so they offer migrant musicians no inducement to locate
                            there.Songless
                            Pastures All the season tortured horses and cattle graze in early
                        morning and evening, and at noontime stand in restless groups, striving to
                        drive away the flies, and find shelter from each other's bodies;
                        for neither cattle nor horses lie when they have finished grazing unless
                        there is shade. To rest in the open would be to place themselves between two
                        firesthe reflected heat from the earth and the direct heat from the sun.
                    "He maketh me to lie down in green pastures," I quoted,
                        when passing such a field on a scorching August day.
                    "He sendeth His rain to the just as well as to the unjust,"
                        quoted my critic, in reply. "You know if I were He, I would not. I
                        would send rain only to pastures with trees in them, and burn all the
                        remainder,"
                    So we agreed to keep watch as we drove across the country, making these
                        illustrations, and see how much we could learn of the disposition of the
                        farmers by the manner in which they provided for their stock and their
                        birds. Soon it became apparent that the man who stripped a pasture of every
                        tree treated his family with no greater consideration. There was scarcely a
                        tree anywhere on his premises. In one place we counted four big  stumps, all within a few rods of the house
                        that the felled trees had shaded from noon until sunset. These trees had
                        been cut within the past two years, and the house had stood for many. There
                        was not a growth anywhere around it except a few scrub cedars, and not a
                        bird note. It was bared to the burning heat.
                    What would it have meant to the women and children of that stopping-place,
                        for there was no sign of home around it, to have had the tight paling-fence
                        torn away from the few yards immediately surrounding the house; the shelter
                        of those big trees, with an easy seat beneath them, and a hammock swinging
                        between? I dreamed those trees were growing again and filled with bird
                        notes, that fence down, a coat of fresh paint on the house, the implements
                        standing in the barn lot sheltered, and one day's work spent in
                        arranging the premises.A
                            Roadside Dream Into the dream would come a vision of open doors
                        and windows, the sound of the voices of contented women, the shouts of happy
                        children, and the chirping of many birds.
                    Some farms belong to men my critic calls a "tight-wad."
                        That is not a classic expression; but if you saw the lands from which every
                        tree had been sold, the creeks and ponds dried and plowed over, the fields
                        inclosed in stretches of burning wire fence to allow cultivation within a
                        few inches of it, not a bird note sounding,You would understand 
                        
                            
                                BLAZING STAR
                            
                            
                                "Every clod feels a stir of might,
                                An instinct within it that reaches and
                                    towers
                                And, blindly groping above it for light,
                                Climbs to a soul in grass and
                                    flowers."
                            
                            
                                Lowell.
                            
                        
                         why the term is suitable as none other.Nature's Gentle
                            Men Even if the Almighty did give the earth to the children of
                        men, it scarcely seems fair to Him to efface every picture and hush all
                        song. It is difficult to realize just what would happen were most men
                        farming by this method. But we still have left some degree of comfort
                        because there are so many of nature's gentle men: men who see the
                        pictures, hear the songs, and wish to perpetuate them for their
                        children.
                    I know a farm that has been for three generations in the same family, passing
                        from father to son. The homemark the wordis on a little hill in the middle
                        of the land, obscured by surrounding trees from the road and its dust and
                        travel. The quaint old house is a story and a half, and a porch extends the
                        length of the front and both sides. That home even turns its back to the
                        road. The front porch and door face the orchard in the center of the land,
                        "where father always sat when he rested, so that he could hear the
                        birds and bees sing," the son told me.
                    There are old beehives under the trees, and the grass is long and fine. One
                        could look at that orchard in mid-winter and tell to a certainty just what
                        music would swell there in June. The bluebird would claim the hollow apple
                        tree, the catbird the plum thicket, the robin, jay, and dove the apple
                        trees, and the ground sparrow the earth. The 
                        hens would mother broods there, the turkeys slip around warily, and the
                        guineas clatter in the grass. Martins and swallows homing under the barn
                        eaves would sail above the trees, and blackbirds from the creek would build
                        on high branches. But no dream could encompass all the music that would
                        swell there throughout the summer.
                    Any lover of sunshine, bird song, and orchard pictures almost could see the
                        old man who finished his day's work and then rested himself with
                        music, sitting beneath his trees, worshiping God in nature. I have known
                        many men like him, and all of them had bodies as strong as their trees,
                        music in their hearts if the birds failed to sing, and faces serene as
                        summer skies.
                    The garden lies on one side of the dooryard, the barn lot on the other.An Old-fashioned Garden
                        The garden is a quaint commingling of use and beauty. There are raspberry,
                        currant, and gooseberry bushes along the sides and across the foot, but on
                        either hand at the front gate are flowers. Large clusters of white lilies
                        grow by each post, and cinnamon pink, larkspur, ragged robin, and many
                        sweet, old-fashioned blooms overflow the beds. Straight down the center is
                        another big flower-bed, and at each side of it squares of radishes, onions,
                        lettuce, salsify, spinach, strawberries,everything edible, and all
                        flower-bordered. In each corner is a peach tree, and there are others
                        scattered here and there.
                    
                    
                        
                            WILLOWS
                        
                        
                            "Give fools their gold, and knaves their power;
                            Let fortune's bubbles rise and fall;
                            Who sows a field, or trains a flower,
                            Or plants a tree, is more than all."
                        
                        Whittier.
                    
                    
                    The dooryard is filled with pear, plum, apple, and some fine, big walnut
                        trees. The barn is of logs; and at the door and all around the well and
                        watering-trough are beds of crushed stone. Across the end of the house,
                        facing the road, "father" built a schoolroom. It was
                        fifteen feet wide and twenty long. There he taught the neighbors'
                        children in winter and dried fruit in summer. Just back of the house a large
                        meadow, tree-sprinkled, stretches down to the road, and in the corner next
                        to the barn grow three willows so mighty that they called me to them,and so
                        I discovered a home, and "father" and
                        "mother."
                    In a little dip in the meadow near the barn "father"
                        planted those three willows thirty years ago.Comfort for Stock When they had
                        grown to sufficient size to make enough shade, because the barn was low and
                        hot, he built this big feed-trough under them, and then he carried corn and
                        grain to it. The trough is six feet wide, eighteen long, and six inches
                        deep. One of the trees is nine feet in circumference, one twelve, and one
                        fourteen; and "all the birds of the heaven make their
                        nests" in these boughs, while the trees sing unceasingly. The
                        watering-trough, that father always kept filled, stands along the side of
                        the yard fence next the barn. There must be forty acres of woods, from which
                        trees have been taken only for fuel and to let in enough light to make the
                        grass grow for pasture.
                    
                    I never saw "father" and "mother.""Father" and
                            "Mother" They were gone before the willows
                        called me. Her son told me that "mother had big brown eyes and
                        white hair, and her cheeks were always a little pink." Of course
                        they were. Like the cinnamon pinks of her garden. So by the lilies and the
                        ragged robins and her porch, facing from the dust and
                        turmoil of travel, we know "mother." And by the
                        schoolhouse he built with his hands, by the cultivation of beauty and music
                        all around his home and entire farm, by the neatness of his barns and
                        outbuildings, by the trees he spared and the trees he planted, we know
                        "father." By these things we know where
                        "father" is to-day. So when the last book is written and
                        the last picture made, if I have done my work nearly so well as
                        "father" did his, perhaps we will have a happy
                        meeting.
                    I should love to tell him that his work lives as an example to his neighbors;
                        how his willows have grown, and that they called me from afar, and I put
                        them into a book for thousands to see, that they might learn of his
                        great-hearted humanity. I shall want to tell him how many hours I have lain
                        on the grass under the big pear tree at the corner of his house, of all the
                        lunches I have eaten on the front porch looking into the orchard, of the
                        cotton-tails that yet scampered there unafraid, and how one season a little
                        red-eyed vireo built on a branch of the apple tree swaying across 
                        
                            
                                BUCKEYE BRANCH
                            
                            
                                "The buds of the buckeye in spring are the
                                    first.
                                And the willow's gold hair then
                                    appears,
                                And snowy the cups of the dogwood that burst
                                By the red but, with pink-tinted
                                    tears."
                            
                            Fosdick.
                        
                         the end of the porch just above where
                        "mother" always sat with her mending. Heaven is heaven
                        because it will allow me to tell "father" and
                        "mother" these things.
                    One of the beautiful trees this man spared for decorative purposes was the
                            buckeye.The
                            Buckeye I wonder if it was so named from the resemblance of the
                        rich dark-brown nut to the eye of the deer. The trees grow more rapidly than
                        some others, flourishing on upland, slightly sandy soil. The buds are large
                        and open, to display vivid streaks of red and yellow in the spring. The
                        colors are very rich. The flower is a long tassel, covered by tiny florets
                        of greenish yellow. The leaves are oblong, deeply veined, and grow in
                        clusters of four to the stem.
                    The fruit is a round nut, encased in a pulpy hull, dotted with warts of a
                        bright tan-yellow in the fall. The nuts and hulls sometimes drop together,
                        and sometimes the hull opens and the nut falls alone. The nuts are a rich
                        dark-red mahogany, and in them lies the one objection to the tree. To some
                        children they are poisonous, and also to grazing stock. Where these dangers
                        can be avoided they are beautiful trees for ornamenting lawns.
                    Of all my country none is so truly mine as the old orchards. On almost every
                        farm of the present day there is a deserted orchard. These trees are  worthless commercially, but at times they
                        bear fruit that can be used for cider at least; so their lives are spared.
                        In some of these orchards the cabin of the father or grandfather who first
                        wrestled with the forest yet stands. In many of them the home has fallen to
                        decay or been torn down for firewood, but the apple trees remain even in
                        plowed fields and amidst growing grain. These trees are monuments to a
                        deeply-rooted objection to cutting a fruit tree, in spite of the fact that
                        they produce small, sour, blighted, and wormy apples.
                    Almost without exception the old snake-fences surround them, weighted with
                        loads of growing shrubs and vines, and on and under them home field mice,
                        moles, rabbits, chipmunks, lizards, birds of low habit, night moths, and
                        bugs and insects of innumerable species.Old Orchards The grass grows long, rank, and so
                        silken fine it is delightful to lie and thread it through the fingers, and
                        recite those exquisite lines of Walt Whitman's, 
                            "I guess it must be the flag of my disposition, Out of
                                hopeful green stuff woven."
                        
                    
                    Nearly all the old orchards are on the highest spot of a farm and near the
                        center of the land. These pioneers had the English plan of an estate, with
                        the residence in the middle, away from the annoyance of travel and the dust
                        of the highway. 
                        
                            
                                AN OLD ORCHARD
                            
                            
                                "What plant we in this apple-tree?
                                Sweets for a hundred flowery springs
                                To load the Mey-wind's rastless wings,
                                When, from the orchard row, he pours
                                Its fragrance through our open doors."
                            
                            Bryant.
                        
                         But the inclination of their children seems
                        to be to see how close to the road they can live. Indeed, many men owning
                        several hundred acres of land covered with a half dozen valuable building
                        sites, elevations that would insure a dry cellar, sanitary surroundings, all
                        the breeze passing, and the seclusion that is due a family, build their
                        homes solely with an eye to living on the road. If they are fond of surface
                        water in their wells, which breeds typhoid fever, dust, heat, and constant
                        trespass of travelers, no one can interfere, and the result is splendid for
                        the birds and for me.
                    The farther away from the old orchard the new home is builded the surer am I
                        of finding among the trees shy doves from river thickets, brown thrashers,
                        warblers, and bright-eyed vireos, in addition to the catbirds, bluebirds,
                        kingbirds, robins, and screech owls that habitually home there.The Hymn of the Orchard
                        Also the long grass invites the larks and ground sparrows to join the
                        chorus. And what a song it is! The rough bark of old apple trees is a table
                        spread for larvae seekers, and the masses of bloom a far call to insect
                        hunters, so that from earliest spring these beautiful old orchards are the
                        veritable choir-loft of the Lord, and from them arises one constant volume
                        of joyful praise and thanks-giving. Even in the night the orioles nestle
                        contentedly on their perches, and you can hear them talk about the goodness
                        of God in their sleep.
                    
                    Fifteen feet high in the branches of one of these old apple trees a robin
                        built her nest before leafage in the wet, cold April of 1907.A True Mother There were
                        two eggs when one morning found the cradle filled with snow, and I thought
                        she would desert it, but later she returned. Surely brooding bird never had
                        a more uncomfortable time. The tree had borne apples the previous year, and
                        of course she thought it alive and expected protection from the leaves. It
                        was quite dead, and never a sign of bloom or leaf appeared.
                    The weather changed abruptly each day. With no shelter whatever she sat
                        through freezing nights, snowy days, sleet, rain, and flashes of hot
                        sunshine. When she had four babies almost ready to leave the nest, a
                        terrific cold rain began on Saturday morning. By afternoon it poured, and
                        she pointed her bill skyward and gasped for breath. I fully expected that
                        she would desert the nest and seek shelter before morning, but she remained,
                        although drenched and half dead. That rain continued all of Sunday, pouring
                        at times, until Monday morning. Although I watched by the hour, not once
                        from the time it began until rifts of sunlight showed Monday morning did I
                        see her leave her nest or feed the young, or her mate bring her a morsel of
                        food. For an hour at a stretch, several times a day, I thought she would
                        drown. My ladder had been erected for some time before her location, 
                        
                            
                                MOTHER ROBIN
                            
                            
                                When sleepy-time comes in Robin-town,!
                                Four little heads covered with down.
                                Under the feathers of mother's breast,
                                Close against her heart are pressed.
                            
                        
                         and by noon Monday I resumed a series of
                        pictures of her nesting history. There were several dozen of them,
                        representing every phase of her home life, the one I use here being
                        especially individual.
                    Both birds attended the young alternately, with the difference that when the
                        father fed them he removed a faeces and flew away. When the mother arrived
                        she performed the same operation, and then, setting her breast feathers on
                        end, slowly moved over the young, who thrust their heads against her breast,
                        and she brooded them until the male returned. I loved to see the young move
                        toward her and watch the sudden swell of the feathers to admit them. Several
                        times I was tempted to record it, but thought the act was too fast for my
                        lens. However, as I had almost everything else, I decided to try, and that
                        morning as I detected the impulse to lift the feathers with the snuggling of
                        the young, I snapped. The bird that disdained shelter and kept his head out
                        when the mother moved over the nest, left it before the day was done.
                    Robins are true orchard birds, wonderfully friendly, and great worm
                        consumers; in fact such fabulous numbers are fed to young robins that many
                        times over one is repaid for the few apples and cherries they pick
                            later.The Value of a
                            Robin They are invaluable aids in agriculture, and every robin
                        nest a farmer  finds in his dooryard or
                        orchard is worth five dollars to him above all the birds possibly can
                        destroy, and the music they make, especially the song they sing in the rain,
                        should be above price. Robins are the alarm clocks of the fields, for almost
                        without exception they wake the morning and all birds with their glad cry,
                        "Cheer up!"
                    These old orchards home many big night moths, one that reminds me of the
                            robin.An Orchard
                            Moth The caterpillar feeds on apple leaves, and its cocoons
                        frequently are spun on old trees either on a water sprout at the base or
                        high among the branches. The predominant color of this moth is the
                        steel-gray of the robin, shading darker and lighter, and it has prominent
                        markings, half-moon shaped, on its wings, almost the color of the
                        robin's breast. It is more gaudy than the bird, however, for it
                        also has lines of white, faint lines of black, wider ones of tan, and
                        dark-blue circles. It is the commonest of all large moths, and is around
                        almost every country home at night, and frequents cities as well; but
                        because it is a creature of darkness, many people live a lifetime where it
                        is oftenest found and never make its acquaintance.
                    Of all the birds that frequent orchards near homes,Majesty in the Orchard and those
                        rarer ones that settle in my deserted orchards, the kingbird is most
                        appropriately named; for he is king, and his mate is queen, and the apple
                        tree they select is a palace, and the nest 
                        
                            
                                THE ORCHARD MOTH
                            
                            
                                When the sun has gone to rest,!
                                And the moon rears her shining crest,
                                The night moth courts in orchard glade,
                                To the screech owl's wavering serenade.
                            
                        
                         is their throne-room. So ably do they defend
                        it that never in all my life have I seen a pair conquered or their nest
                        despoiled. The king is not such a large birdsmaller than a robin, of
                        robin-gray, with a white throat and black tail having a white tip; but he is
                        stoutly built, plump, and pugilistic, and of truly remarkable agility on
                        wing. He has a smoky, black, rounding erest, and wings of the same color.
                        Kingbirds give their young the worms that feed on grass blades, small flies,
                        and moths that flutter elose to the ground. They perform a variety of
                        acrobatics on wing in search of food, poising over orchard and meadow
                        hunting prey, and darting after it in headlong flight, with indescribable
                        turnings and twistings of tireless wings.
                    This habit of food-catching in air prepares them for the battles they wage on
                        wing, for so agile are they, so hardy, and of such unfaltering courage, that
                        they attack anything threatening their nests. I have seen them chase crows,
                        dusky falcons, and in one case a large hawk, in pell-mell flight across the
                        sky, and their deft twistings enabled them to escape unharmed, while they
                        darted savagely at heads and eyes and put their enemies completely to rout.
                        With any bird close their own sizea mewling catbird or a jay wanting a
                        newly-hatched nestling for desertthey make quick disposal.
                    
                    There is very little art in their nests, but their eggs are beautifully
                        decorated. The young are colored similar to their elders, the families large
                        and so cunning as to be irresistible. No bird is more useful in an orchard,
                        unless, indeed, it be a cuckoo, which is of great value because it eats
                        caterpillars. In protecting an orchard from jays, hawks, and crows, such a
                        pair of fighters saves you dozens of more gentle timid birds that carry
                        worms and bugs by the million from fruit trees. In consideration of this you
                        should acknowledge their royalty and offer them every encouragement to reign
                        over your premises.
                    As we regard harmony, the kingbird is the least musical resident of the
                            orchard.Titled
                            Musicians Tilting on a lookout from the top of the tree in which
                        his nest is placed, he uses what to me sounds like, "Ka-tic, a-tic,
                        a-tic," for a tribal call and means of communication between pairs.
                        His sustained song, if song it may be called, appeals to me as
                        "Ka-tic, a-tic, querr, kerrr, kerrr!" but it is not
                        composed of either mellow or musical tones, and is at all times inflected as
                        if it were a continued call of defiance; so that the good folk who attribute
                        to him a "sweet musical song, softly warbled," are the
                        veriest romancers.
                    The picture here given shows a nest nearly fifteen feet high in one of these
                        old orchards, around which I worked until the story of what I did with 
                        
                            
                                ROYALTY IN THE ORCHARD
                            
                            
                                The apple-tree becomes a Palace,!
                                When the Queen-bird builds her throne,
                                And a doughty soldier the King-bird
                                As he stoutly guards his own.
                            
                        
                         these birds would sound like romance of
                        another variety, did I not have a picture just as good as this to prove
                        every statement I make. Not a leaf of the location was touched, but as it
                        was a second nesting for the season, and in July, the heat was so intense
                        that despite the shade of her chosen location the mother bird often lolled
                        on the nest, as in this picture. The wonderful thing about it is that after
                        a few days I placed the camera on the top of a ladder opposite the nest and
                        near enough to secure reproductions of this size. The old birds were so
                        convinced of my good intentions that I obtained dozens of poses as good as
                        this, and even better, of each of them. I took their young from the nest and
                        photographed them every day for the last four days before they left home,
                        replaced them, and they remained even a day and a half after I had
                        finished.
                    It is a truth that I can prove amply by reliable people who watched the
                        performance from afar, that both old birds sat in the top of their tree and
                        never took flight or made a sound while the young were away from the nest,
                        and at once went on feeding them when they were replaced. Of course, I
                        handled those young from the time they were little pin-feathered things, and
                        they had no fear of me. If they had cried, I fancy the old ones would have
                        been alarmed. But that birds of their universally admitted pugnacious
                        character  would permit me to handle their
                        young, and even remove them from the nest for a half hour at a time, proves
                        they know enough to distinguish friends from foes. It shows that even the
                        wildest creatures can be tamed to your will by persistent kindness and
                        unlimited patience in approaching them.
                    These birds are never more beautiful and interesting than when on wing,
                        food-hunting. The waving grass of the orchard is one ground for them; the
                        shrubs covering the fence, another. Other writers have expatiated at length
                        on the wild rose, alder, and goldenrod that grow along these old fences; I
                        wish to call attention to the bloom of the scarlet haw. The kingbirds taught
                        me to notice it. I followed them to learn what insect they hunted there. I
                        found several differing flies and gnats, and sometimes a bee was snapped
                        up.
                    The scarlet haw does not bloom in crowded clusters, as does its cousin, the
                        red haw.The Scarlet Haw
                            Choir I have found eight blooms to a cluster, again four or five,
                        and ten times as often six, thus establishing an average and preserving
                        detail. Each blossom has five exquisitely cut and cupped petals, dainty
                        stamens and pistil, and long enough stem to display the full beauty of the
                        flower without pushing it into the others. Neither are these clusters
                        crowded on the bush so closely as to lose their individuality, and 
                        
                            
                                SCARLET HAW BLOOM
                            
                            
                                The bees think the cup of the scarlet haw !
                                The finest chair-loft they ever saw.
                            
                        
                         they bloom so late that while the leaves are
                        yet tender and of paler green than later in the season, many of them are
                        full size and dark enough in color to form a background that emphasizes the
                        daintiness and purity of the blooms and makes them the beauties of the
                        entire haw family. The fruit is scarlet in color and not good to eat. The
                        flowers will set the joy-song singing in any appreciative heart, and their
                        perfume calls up a choir of half-intoxicated, nectar-loving insects.
                    I have seen night hawks soaring late in the evening above old orchards, and
                        heard whip-poor-wills cry there, but I think they only settled in flight for
                        a time, as they might in any secluded growth of trees.Night Music in the Orchard The night
                        bird that really homes, breeds, and lives there summer and winter is the
                        screech owl. It would be the funniest thing in ornithology to see a plucked
                        screech owl or parrot. Small owls are such comical creatures in their
                        feathers, such caricatures of their great horned relatives of the
                        forest!
                    Most familiar in the orchards are the little brown sereechers, and slightly
                        larger ones of a cool gray, tan, brown, and black coloring. I am very fond
                        of them because I know so well how happy they are, how unusually secure in
                        the hollow apple tree, and how successful their hunting. I believe they have
                            less cause than many other birds  to be unhappy over anything, and so, of course, their songs
                        are of love and contentment.
                    The owl has been shuddered at for a sufficient length of time.The Owls'
                            Serenade Now for a change I wish to suggest that the people who
                        write further history of him put themselves in the
                            bird's place and describe his song as it is sung, and not as it
                            appeals to the interpreter's fancy. I love to hear a
                        screech owl screech. It means that he is having a hilarious time. His heart
                        is bubbling over with the joy of cool, dim night life in the orchard, or
                        throbbing with the exultation of the mating fever. He is a friendly, social
                        bird. Every winter he comes around the cabin hunting food, and he will
                        answer my repetition of his calls until I become uncomfortable and close the
                        window. Every time he lifts his voice he is either locating his mate, happy
                        enough to talk about it or pleading for a wife and home. He is the most
                        contented bird of the orchard and almost without exception its only night
                        singer.
                    A hollow apple tree is his favorite home, and from four to six the number of
                        his children. I doubt if the anatomy of any bird contains a member more
                        wonderful than the eye of an owl. The organ of vision is fixed in a socket
                        so that the bird turns its head instead of its eyes, and they are surrounded
                        by a reflector of fine, closely set feathers, while the composition of the
                        ball is so intricate as 
                        
                            
                                SCREECH OWL
                            
                            
                                The screech owl screeches when courting,!
                                Because it's the best he can do,
                                If you couldn't court without screeching,
                                Why, then, I guess you'd screech
                                    too.
                            
                        
                         to merit a volume by itself. The owl can
                        enlarge the retina, in order to see more clearly as he enters darker places.
                        The Almighty did few things more wonderful than to evolve the eye of an
                        owl.
                    I love all the music of nature, but none is dearer to the secret places of my
                        heart than the Song of the Road.The Song of the Road The highways are wonderful.
                        They appear to flow between the fields, climbing hills without effort,
                        sliding into valleys, and stretching across plains farther than the eye or
                        lens can follow. All of my roads have three well-defined wheel tracks. There
                        are two strongly marked that every vehicle makes, and another only slightly
                        outlined, made by those passing on the way. Tiny flowers of yellow sorrel,
                        rank fennel, grass, dandelion, smartweed, and catnip grow to the fence
                        corners, and these are filled with tall meadow rue, milkweed, poke berry,
                        goldenrod, asters, thistle, saffron, teazel, and sumac sprouts. There are
                        wild roses, alders, maple, oak, and clm shrubs, and the straggling old
                        snake-fences are bound together and upheld by bittersweet, wild grape,
                        honeysuckle, and moonseed.
                    I love the morning road, when the air is yet tinged with the dampness and
                        mystery of night, when the foliage is sharply outlined against the reddening
                        sky, and every bird sings his chant as if he just had mastered it for a
                        sublime offertory to a sun that never arose before.Chants to the Rising Sun Hope is so
                        high  in the morning. You are going to succeed
                        where you failed yesterday. You are going to advance so far beyond anything
                        already achieved. God is good to give to men a world full of beauty and
                        ringing with music, and scarcely realizing it you resolve to be good as
                        well. So you add your voice, and travel the long road in the morning with a
                        light heart.
                    But after all the evening road is better, for it leads back to home and
                        friends, and it is quite true that there is "no place like
                        home." In the red glory of the setting sun there is the promise of
                        light for another day; the peaceful fields appear satisfied with their
                        growth; the birds sing vespers with a depth of harmony altogether
                        devotional; the hermit thrush and the wood robin make your heart ache with
                        the holy purity of their notes. And if the high hopes of the morning did not
                        all come true, the peace of evening brings the consoling thought that
                        perhaps you have grown enough during the day to accomplish them on the
                        morrow; or perhaps it is best after all that success did not come.
                        Intangible, but springing from everywhere, creeps the dark and the time of
                        mystery; the screech owl and the whip-poor-will raise their quavering night
                        songs, and without urging your horse lifts his tired head and breaks into a
                        swifter trot, for night is coming, and he too is on the home road. 
                        
                            
                                THE SONG OF THE ROAD
                            
                            
                                "Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open
                                    road,
                                Healthy, free, the world before me.
                                The long brown path before me leading wherever I
                                    choose.
                                Strong and content I travel the open road."
                            
                            Whitman
                        
                         Many volumes could be filled with the history
                        of old snake-fences, their inhabitants, and environment. Some of our rarest
                        birds home in the shrub-filled corners or swing from branches above, and
                        flowers of unusual beauty are found growing in them and all along the
                        wayside. If you do not believe the birds are social and love the company of
                        human beings, compare the number of oriole nests you can find in deep forest
                        or open wood with those in fields, orchards, and along roads. In my country
                        I always learn, after the leaves fall that orioles in greater number than
                        anywhere else to be found have swung over the road above my head in their
                        pendant bags of hair and lint throughout the summer.
                    Of all the myriad flowers that distil sweets and call many insects to join in
                        the song of the road none are more beautiful than blazing star.Blazing Star The
                        stems, if not bent by pushing against something unyielding, grow straight
                        toward heaven to a height of from two to three feet where the soil is dry,
                        and by swampy and damper roads attain to four, and during the season of 1907
                        even five. The leaves are slender and sparsely set, alternating, and the
                        blooms are exquisite. It is difficult to name their shade, because it
                        fluctuates with the amount of moisture, exposure to sun, and the length of
                        time the flower has been open, but it runs from pale violet to deep
                        magenta-purple.  The bloom, sometimes an inch
                        across, is a head of fine petals, and reminds one of a painter's
                        brush, filled with exquisite color. Each little flower is folded separately,
                        and at maturity opens, one at a time, around the outer rim until the whole
                        is a mass of shaggy, delicately colored petals. The seed slightly resembles
                        larch fruit or Norwegian pine cones, on account of being similar in shape
                        and covered with scales, but these are purplish-red.
                    One of these plants bears stamens, and another pistils, so that they are
                        unable to reproduce themselves; and were it not for the work of the bees and
                        butterflies in cross-fertilizing, they would become extinct. They have
                        enough stamens and pollen to give a golden glow to the base of the petals,
                        and are of sufficient perfume to attract bees and butterflies. Archippus,
                        Coenia, and Troilus do the work necessary in carrying pollen back and forth
                        between plants.
                    The most exquisite roadside bird of which I ever have succeeded in making a
                        series of studies is the goldfinch, commonly known in the country as the
                        "wild canary," the "lettuce" and
                        "seed bird.The
                            Gold-Finch" These are almost our latest migrants, wait
                        until July to build, and bring off but one brood in a season. The nest is a
                        dainty affair of intricate construction, and takes longer to complete than
                        that of any other bird I know. I have seen a pair of orioles build their
                        nest in three days; but the goldfinches 
                        
                            
                                MALE GOLDFINCH AND YOUNG
                            
                            
                                In a milkweed cradle, rocked by harvest winds.!
                                Hungry Goldfinch nestlings crowd and cry.
                                "Put seed in 'em! Put seed in
                                    'em!"
                                Sing the old birds as they fly.
                            
                        
                         work for a week, and sometimes longer. They
                        use quantities of plant fiber stripped from last year's dead, dry
                        weeds, and line copiously with thistle and milkweed down. Why such
                        deliberate and dainty architecture is not conducive to neater home-life is
                        difficult to say; for these exquisite little birds are the filthiest
                        housekeepers I know intimately.
                    Nearly all songstersalmost every bird, in factwith its bill removes from the
                        young the excrement, carrying and dropping it far from the nest. The
                        goldfinches have cradles filled to overflowing, five and six young to the
                        brood, and the elders pay no attention to this feature of parenthood, so
                        that in a short time their nests are as white outside with a rain of
                        droppings as they are inside with milkweed down.
                    The females are olive-green and yellow birds, and the males are similar in
                        winter. In summer they don a nuptial dress, that with the pure, bubbling
                        melody of their song must make them irresistible. They wear a black cap and
                        sleeves, have a tail touched with black and white, and a pure lemon-yellow
                        waistcoat. They frequent gardens, deserted orchards, and roadsides. Their
                        song is of such bubbling spontaneity that they can not remain on a perch to
                        sing it, but go darting in waves of flight over fields and across the road
                        before you, sowing notes broadcast as the wind scatters the seed they love.
                        They have a tribal call that can  be imitated
                        so they answer it readily. The male cries,
                        "Pt'seet!" and the female answers,
                        "Pt'see!" The continuous song that they sow on
                        the air with an abandon approaching the bubbling notes of the bobolink, and
                        really having more pure glee in it, to my ears syllabicates, "Put
                        seed in it! Put seed in it!"
                    Possibly I thought of this because they are always putting seed into
                        themselves. Mustard, thistle, lettuce, oyster plant, millet, and every
                        garden vegetable and wild weed that produces a seed, in time will bear a
                        goldfinch singing as it sways and feasts.
                    One of the commonest plants of the wayside, dignified and attractive in
                        bloom, and wholly artistic in seedtime, is the milkweed.Milkweed and Bittersweet This plant
                        is inseparably connected in my mind with the goldfinch, that depends upon it
                        for most of its nesting material, and with the monarch butterfly, the
                        caterpillar of which feeds upon the leaves. Any plant that blankets a
                        goldfinch family and nourishes a butterfly is an aristocrat of the first
                        order. In touch of it grows our best-loved climber.
                    Because of its elegant leaves, its stout, twining stem, and brilliant and
                        long clinging berries, the bittersweet is the very finest vine of the
                        roadside. In winter it outshines all others, because the hulls of the yellow
                        clusters open in four divisions and expose a bright-red berry divided
                        sometimes into 
                        
                            
                                MILKWEED
                            
                            
                                Proudly the milkweed lifts its head.!
                                And bears its pods on high,
                                For it lines the dainty goldfinch nest.
                                And fosters a butterfly.
                            
                        
                         three, and again four parts, each containing
                        a small oblong seed. The elegant vines cover fences, trees, climb poles, and
                        spread over bushes all along the road. The berries retain their brilliant
                        color during winter, so that on gray days they lighten the gloom, and on
                        white ones they contrast with a brilliancy that is equaled only by the
                        scarlet heads of the mountain ash.
                    Such pictures and music are the natural accompaniment of the old
                            snake-fences.The Music
                            of Nature Whenever I come into country abounding in them my heart
                        always begins softly to sing, "Praise the Lord!" For where
                        these old fences are replaced by wire the farmers always make a clean sweep
                        to the roadside, and not the ghost of a picture or the echo of a song is
                        left to me. There are times when my disappointment is so great it is
                        difficult to avoid a feeling of childish resentment. Sometimes I stop my
                        horse and attempt to preach timber conservation and the laws of attraction
                        as applied to moisture; but what has a passing woman to tell a lord of
                        creation busily improving his field? He is providing a few more feet of
                        space for corn and potatoes and enlarging his egotism over greater personal
                        possessions. I notice that in making a field most men exhibit a sense of
                        creation. It is where their work is made manifest. Yes, even to a greater
                        degree than they realize, for sometimes when they arrogantly dismiss me and
                        my theories  I smile as a summer storm sweeps
                        unbroken over their field to emphasize my assertions.
                    Then men must seek shelter and stand helpless while a stout hickory they
                        thought could weather such conditions alone is wrung to ribbons. The great
                        oak left because of its value is stripped of its heart, their stock falls
                        dead, their barns and homes ascend in smoke or their crops are beaten down
                        with the storm or carried away with the wind, and their buildings
                        demolished, Blest and beneficent is most of the music of nature. But when
                        there is a storm, and the earth trembles, the heavens appear to open before
                        our eyes; when the windharps shriek, and the big bass-drum rolls its
                        thunder,all other notes are hushed and forgotten. When nature presses the
                        bass pedal and plays fortissimo we acknowledge the grandeur and irresistible
                        power of the storm. And we see its beauty also. No other picture equals the
                        splendor of mountains of black massing clouds, the white flare of
                        electricity, the falling sheets of glistening water. Most of us enjoy a
                        storm with palpitant exultation, although it is one musical performance that
                        seldom gets an encore. But there are times when it teaches man that if he
                        had left a few acres of forest in the middle of his land, and a border of
                        trees around the edge deep enough for a wind-break, he would have saved his
                        summer's labor, his home, and provided music and shade for the
                        highway.
                    
                    
                        
                            LIGHTNING-RIVEN OAK
                        
                        
                            "One bears a scar !
                            Where the quick lightning scored its trunk, yet still
                            It feels the breath of Spring."Brayant.
                        
                    
                    
                    The roads run systematically across the face of earth, singing the song of
                        travel and commerce.The
                            Song of the Limberlost Then there is a far sweeter song, sung by
                        little streams of water, wandering as they will, in beneficent course,
                        quenching the thirst of the earth, enhancing its beauty, and lulling us with
                        their melody. Any one of these little streams is typical of all, but each
                        nature-lover has his own particular brook that to him is most beautiful. 
                            "I come from haunts of coot and hern,"
                         sang Tennyson of his. My Limberlost comes from the same haunts, and
                        nothing can convince me that any running water on the face of earth is more
                        interesting or more beautiful. I have read of the streams that flow over
                        India's golden sands, down Italy's mountains, through
                        England's meadows; but none of them can sing sweeter songs or have
                        more interest to the inch than the Limberlost.
                    It is born in the heart of swampy wood and thicket, flows over a bed of muck
                        or gravel, the banks are grass and flower-lined, its waters cooled and
                        shaded by sycamore, maple, and willow. June drapes it in misty white, and
                        November spreads a blanket of searlet and gold. In the water fish, turtle,
                        crab, muskrat, and water puppy disport themselves. Along the shores the
                        sandpiper, plover, coot, bittern, heron, and crane take their pleasure and
                        seek their food. Above it the hawk  and
                        vulture wheel, soar, and sail in high heaven, and the kingfisher dashes in
                        merry rattling flight between the trees, his reflection trailing after him
                        across sunlit pools. The quail leads her chickens from the thicket to drink,
                        and the wild ducks converse among the rushes. In it the coon carefully
                        washes the unwary frog caught among the reeds, and the muskrat furrows
                        deeper ripples than the stones.
                    The lambs play on the pebbly banks and drink eagerly, the cattle roll
                        grateful eyes as they quench their thirst and stand belly-deep for hours
                        lazily switching their tails to drive away flies.What the Limberlost Knows Little
                        children come shouting to wade in the cool waters, and larger ones solemnly
                        sit on the banks with apple-sucker rods, wrapping twine lines and bent pin
                        hooks, supporting their families by their industry, if the gravity of their
                        faces be token of the importance of their work. Sweethearts linger beside
                        the stream and surprise themselves with a new wonder they just have
                        discoveredtheir secret; but the Limberlost knows, and promises never to
                        tell.
                    Perhaps that is what it chuckles about while slipping around stones, over
                        fallen trees, and whispering across beds of black ooze. The Limberlost is a
                        wonderful musician, singing the song of running water throughout its course.
                        Singing that low, somber, sweet little song that you must get 
                        
                            
                                THE SONG OF THE LIMBERLOST
                            
                            
                                When June comes down the Limberlost!
                                In her bridal garments pale
                                She pouses 'neath the wild plum trees,
                                To weave her wadding vell.
                            
                        
                         very close earth to hear, because the creek
                        has such mighty responsibility it hesitates to sing loudly lest it appear to
                        boast. All these creatures to feed and water; all these trees and plants to
                        nourish! The creek is so happy that it can do all this, and if it runs
                        swiftly other woods, thickets, fields, and meadows can be watered. Then the
                        river must be reached as soon as possible, for there are factory wheels to
                        be turned, boats to be carried, and the creek has heard that some day it is
                        to be a part of the great ocean. When the Limberlost thinks of that its song
                        grows a little more exultant and proud, bends are swept with swifter
                        measure, louder notes are sung, and every bird, bee, insect, man, and child
                        along the banks joins in the accompaniment. All the trees rustle and
                        whisper, shaking their branches to shower it with a baptism of gold in
                        pollen time. The rushes and blue flags murmur together, and the creek and
                        every sound belonging to it all combine in the song of the Limberlost.
                    Sometimes it slips into the thicket, as on the Bone farm; for it is
                        impartial, and perhaps feels more at home there than in the meadows, surely
                        more than in cultivated fields, where the banks often are stripped bare, the
                        waters grow feverish and fetid, its song is hushed, and its spirit
                            broken.The Whisper
                            Song But in the thicket the birds gather very low above the
                        surface, the branches dip into the friendly 
                        floods, and it nourishes such an abundance of rank growth as men scarcely
                        can penetrate. Then the Limberlost and the thicket hold a long conversation,
                        to tell each other how very content and happy they are. The bed of the
                        Limberlost in the thicket is ooze and muck, so the water falls silent while
                        slipping over the velvet softness, with only a whisper to the birds and
                        trees; not so loud as the song of the flags, rushes, and water hyacinths
                        that grow on the banks. The many trees and masses of shrubs lower their
                        tones to answer the creek, and he who would know their secret must find for
                        himself a place on the bank and be very quiet, for in the thicket the stream
                        will sing only the softest lullaby, just the merest whisper song.
                    The big turtles in the water are quiet folk. So are the sinous black snakes
                        sunning on the bushes, and the muskrats homing along the banks. As if loth
                        to break the dark, damp stillness with louder notes, the doves coo softly;
                        for they, too, have a secret, the greatest of any bird in all the world. No
                        wonder they keep together and live so lovingly, and coo and coo softly;
                        those wild, tender, andabove all otherloving birds. One would think they
                        would warble from the treetops and soar with the eagle, had not long years
                        taught that modesty and tenderness are their most prominent
                        characteristies.
                    For this is their secret. They are the chosen 
                        
                            
                                BROODING DOVE
                            
                            
                                We think it grief, but 't is truly love, !
                                That finds its voice in the coo of the dove.
                            
                        
                         bird of Omnipotence. It was a dove that
                        carried the news of release to the prisoners in the ark, and it was in the
                        form of a dove that the Spirit of God is said to have materialized and
                        hovered over the head of Jesus when He was baptized in the Jordan. What
                        other bird bears honors high as these? Yet doves home in the thicket, on a
                        few rough twigs they place their pearly, opalescent eggs, and in trembling
                        anxiety brood and raise a pair of young that go modestly and lovingly
                        through life, exactly the same as their parents. Nowhere else in all nature
                        does the softly-uttered coo of a dove so harmonize with the environment as
                        over a stream in a thicket; and no accompaniment to the murmuring voice of
                        the Limberlost is quite so melodious as the love-song of this bird.
                    The thicket seems a natural home for almost every feathered creature.The Bird of God This
                        because there are trees, bushes, and shrubs, with their berries, nuts, and
                        fruits; vines and weeds bearing seed; every variety of insect and worm, and
                        water with its supply of food, thus providing things to eat in a small space
                        for almost every species. In spring and summer the birds have full sway; but
                        in the fall, after the first black frost, come rugged country boys and girls
                        and village children in search of fruit and nuts.
                    To some there is nothing so delicious as the black hawwhite until almost
                        ripe, then a day of  mottled estate, and then
                        such a luscious, shining black berry it has no equal; and if the birds get
                        any they must be ahead of the boys and girls. The opossums must be before
                        the boys at the persimmon tree, for few are left when they finish. The
                        robins love wild grapes, and cedar birds the poke berries, and squirrels,
                        hazelnuts.
                    Hazel bushes are beautiful. The leaf is something like the elm in shape,
                        though the hazel is of finer cutting. They are nearly the same size, deeply
                        grooved on top, and heavily veined underneath. The nuts grow from two to six
                        in a cluster and are sheltered in a leafy, pulpy green cover with fringed
                        edges, most artistic and, I should think, of great benefit to the decorator
                        searching for an unhackneyed subject. There are many places where they could
                        be used with fine effect in leather work, especially as the ripe nut is a
                        good leather color. But the boy who reaches the hazel bushes before the
                        squirrels gets up very early in the morning, and then only too often to find
                        that the worms have been ahead of him; for when green the shells of hazelnut
                        and chestnut are so very soft that beetles bore into them and deposit eggs
                        that hatch, and the worm develops inside the shell, that hardens later. This
                        explains why so often you crack a perfectly sound nut and find a wormy
                        kernel.
                    When the Limberlost leaves the thicket and comes into the open again it does
                        not spread, as 
                        
                            
                                ON THE BANKS OF THE WABASH IN WINTER
                            
                            
                                "Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,
                                Arrives the snow; and, driving o'er the
                                    fields,
                                Seems nowhere to alight; the whited air
                                Hides hills and woods, the river, and the
                                    heaven."
                            
                            Emerson.
                        
                         it did on the bed of ooze; for in the firm
                        clay soil of fields and meadows only a narrow channel is cut, and so with
                        forces renewed by concentration it comes slipping across Bone's
                        woods pasture.Where the
                            Creek Mourns Through his fields, always tree-shaded, it flows,
                        and then crosses farms whose owners I am glad I do not know; for here my
                        creek is robbed of shelter, and left to spread ineffectually, and to
                        evaporate in fetid, unwholesome pools. The trees are cut, and grazing stock
                        by wading everywhere trample down the banks and fill the channel with soil;
                        thus wantonly wasting water that in a few more years these land-owners will
                        be digging ditches to reclaim. With broken heart it is dissipated by the
                        sun, and a dry sob of agony is the only note raised as it painfully oozes
                        across this land and beneath the road bridge.
                    Here the creek reaches deep-shaded channel once more, and bursts into song
                        crossing Arman-trout's pasture; for it is partly shaded, though
                        many large trees on the banks are being felled. A happy song is sung on the
                        Rayn farm, where it is sheltered by trees and a big hill. In full force it
                        crosses the road again, slides below the railroad bridge, rounds the hill,
                        chanting a requiem to the little city of the dead on its banks, flows
                        through the upper corner of the old Limberlost swamp, hurries across the
                        road once more, and so comes singing into Schaffer's meadow.
                    
                    The low, open meadow covered closely with cropped velvet grass,
                        "green pastures," where full-fed cattle lie in deep
                            shade.The Creek Meets
                            the River Nowhere in its course to the river does the Limberlost
                        "preen" and sing exultingly as when crossing this meadow.
                        All the water babies travel with it, the kingfisher and the plover follow;
                        the children play along the banks, and if it has any intuition at all,
                        surely the creek can see gratitude in the eyes of the inhabitants of the
                        meadow as they thrust their muzzles in the depths or stand cooling under
                        trees. If the Limberlost loves admiration, here it receives a full share.
                        The banks are covered with enough trees and bushes to make almost continuous
                        shade for the waters, and a thing of beauty it goes laughing on the way to
                        the Wabash. In fact it is so close the river here that big fish come
                        adventuring and to spawn, and their splash is part of the music that the
                        family living on the banks hears daily. Mr. Sehaffer says that he can stand
                        on his back porch, bait a fish, turn, and drop it into the frying-pan. This
                        really could be done, but much as I have trespassed there I never have seen
                        the fish on their way anywhere except to the river.
                    Aside from the song of the creek and the birds that follow, there comes an
                        occasional wild duck, sometimes a loon lost in migration or slightly wounded
                        by a hunter, and every spring and fall migrating wild geese pay a visit and
                        add strange 
                        
                            
                                RED BUD
                            
                            
                                When Spring sweeps down the river,!
                                With the joy of passing years,
                                Why should the red-bud quiver,
                                And weep its pink-tinted tears?
                            
                        
                         voices to the running chorus. Through
                        Grove's meadow, adjoining, the creek is wilder and wider, and then
                        gathering force in a last rush, with a glad song it goes hurrying to mingle
                        with the Wabash.
                    The river, when swollen with the flood of spring rains, sings a sweeping,
                        irresistible measure that carries one's thoughts by force; but this
                        is its most monotonous production.The Flood Song There is little variation, and the
                        birds are the strongest accompanists. Later, when it falls into the regular
                        channel, it sings its characteristic song and appears so much happier and
                        more content. I believe the river loves and does not willingly leave its
                        bed. When a strong, muddy current it sweeps the surface from valuable
                        fields, drowns stock and washes away fences; it works as if forced, and I
                        like to think the task is disagreeable. At times it seems to moan and sob,
                        while sucking around big tree trunks and washing across meadows and
                        fields.
                    When it comes home again and runs in the proper channel it shouts and sings
                        with glee the true song of the river. You can hear the water triumph as it
                        swirls around great maple and sycamore roots, chuckle as it buffets against
                        rocks, gurgle across shoals, and trill where it ripples over a pebbly floor.
                        The muskrat weaves currents against its flow, the carp wallow in mucky
                        pools, and the black bass leap in air as if too full of life to remain in
                        their element.
                    
                    The river is a house, the bed its floor, the surface its roof, and all the
                        water-folk its residents. What a wonderful thing it would be if the water
                        were transparent, that we might see the turtles, eels, and catfish busy with
                        the affairs of life; bass, pickerel, and suckers maintaining the laws of
                        supremacy, and water puppies at play! When the purple tints on its banks
                        fade, tree-bloom baptizes it with golden pollen, and a week later showers it
                        with snowy petals of wild plum, thorne, crab, and haw. All summer the trees
                        drop a loosened leaf here and there, with Good Samaritan results; for these
                        make lifeboats on which luckless wasps, bees, and worms fallen from blooming
                        trees ride to safety and dry their drenched coats and weighted wings. Trees
                        are the great life-saving service of the river, especially in the fall, when
                        the water is covered with crisp, dead leaves. Many of them are needed, for
                        the cool nights chill the insects so that they fall easily, the winds blow
                        with unusual violence, and there are three times as many victims drowning as
                        in summer.
                    Throughout the season many blooms decorate the river bank, but two stand
                        pre-eminent: the redbud borne on a small tree, the mallow on a shrub.God's Rarest
                            Color The tree flower is remarkable because it is almost the
                        first color shown, and it breaks all over the branches like a severe attack
                        of measles, when not the hint of a leaf is in sight. These come 
                        
                            
                                KINGFISHER
                            
                            
                                "No wonder he laughs so loud,
                                No wonder he looks so proud,
                                There are great kings would give their royalty
                                To have one day of his felicity."
                            
                            Thompson.
                        
                         later in beautiful heart-shaped design, and
                        the flowers are replaced by long, wine-red seed pods. The tiny blooms are
                        shaped like the separate flowers of a locust spray, and of a shade our
                        mothers spoke of as red analine. The blunt point of the bloom once was
                        called a "pink tinted tear" by a poet, and this color
                        flushes stronger until it becomes a deep magenta at the base, while the cup
                        that holds it is reddish-brown.
                    This shade must be the rarest in all God's workshop, because He uses
                        it so very sparingly. It is found on flower faces and in nature less often
                        than any other. How He prizes it is proven by its appearance among the very
                        first, at a time when we are eager for the color and perfume of spring. Our
                        grandmothers taught us to love it on the petunia faces bordering olden
                        flower beds. I delighted in it early on the Easter eggs my mother colored
                        for me. It is one of the most ancient and popular of manufactured colors,
                        chosen for reproduction, without a doubt, because nature is so miserly in
                        its use; for only in hints and suggestions does it fleck the face of
                        creation. First we see it on the redhud beside the river. Then as the poke
                        berry matures it stripes the thrifty stem with gorgeous color to attract the
                        bibulous cedar bird. In mid-summer you find hints of it on wayside blazing
                        star, and in the fall New York asters and ironwort suggest it in their
                        bloom.
                    
                    But its time of greatest glory is in the first appearance, when anything else
                        that may be in flower is white or faint pink and lavender, and only serves
                        as a background for its tones of positive color.The Redbud's Hour of Glory
                        This hint of nature should be remembered well by lovers of the redbud. It is
                        extremely choice about its setting. It refuses to tolerate color other than
                        green, white, or modifications of its own shades. The trees are numerous
                        along the Wabash and in the woods, so thatblooming before leafage and almost
                        first, and seeming to commingle with the mist and haze of early springthey
                        touch the horizon with a faint purple that melts into the blue of the sky
                        and the lazy white clouds.
                    Then comes the time to worship the river. Not even when decorated in the gold
                        of tree bloom is it so exquisitely lovely, so delicate to look upon. Few
                        leaves are unfolded, and those a faint greenish-yellow; the magenta masses
                        on the banks, the water singing loudest at high tide, the purple mists in
                        the air, and fleecy clouds over all. Returning birds are warbling in a craze
                        of joy at home-coming, and we look and listen with eyes and ears hungering
                        for just this after the long days of winter.
                    To the accompaniment of water voices are added songs of birds on the banks,
                        bushes, and trees, and the animals that live beside it. The sun 
                        
                            
                                RIVER MALLOWS
                            
                            
                                The river sings its beauty.!
                                While the mallow leans with grace,
                                And softly flushes rosp
                                At sight of its lovely face.
                            
                        
                         birdthe oriolewith breast and heart of gold,
                        flashes above it; the cardinal, with shrill whistle, nests beside it; the
                        catbird and jay, the robin, thrush, dove, and chat, all home along its
                        banks, and in them nests the typical bird of the river, the kingfisher.The Typical River Bird
                        
                            
                                "No wonder he laughs so loud,
                                No wonder he looks so proud,
                                There are great kings would give their royalty,
                                To have one day of his felieity."
                            
                        
                    
                    Thus sang Maurice Thompson, the sweetest musician the Wabash ever knew. Six
                        feet the birds tunnel into a pebbly, firm embankment; on the ground deposit
                        at least six oblong, white eggs, and the mother walls them in with
                        regurgitated fish bones heaped around her as she broods. One family to a
                        season is the rule, and the young remain long in the nest before they become
                        self-supporting and add their voices to the chorus of the river.
                    The kingfisher is one of the birds of most ancient history, and very
                        interesting. A large volume could be filled with tradition and story
                        concerning it. This proves that people of all time have found it worthy of
                        consideration. Its song is not musical according to our standards, but it is
                        the gayest, most care-free, rollicking bird of the river, and one whose
                        presence is almost universally  respected. In
                        all my work afield I never have found a kingfisher wantonly shot, or heard
                        of such a thing. There seems to be an understanding that they are not
                        suitable for food, and do not interfere with other birds; so they are
                        unmolested. They fly in dashes and perch at short intervals, making it a
                        task for any one so disposed to harm them. The only depredation I have known
                        them to suffer is from snakes entering their nests.
                    The animals that join their grunting, sniffling, and snarling with the voices
                        of the river are the opossum, ground hog, muskrat, coon, and fox. I do not
                        mean that all of these are river animals, but that their species home close
                        the water, go there to quench their thirst, prey upon its denizens, and
                        mingle their voices with its song.
                    Of all vegetation along the river, mallows are the typical flowers, the
                        blooms we see most often, and love best.The Queen of River Flowers The masses of spring
                        color that line the river as a rule belong quite as much to the fields,
                        fences, and thickets as to the water. They are generally everywhere that a
                        shrub remains. The mallow is a true water flower, and grows in greater
                        beauty and blooms in a profusion unknown to its swampy relatives. The plants
                        flourish so close to the water that half the roots are washed in the river.
                        The succulent stems are pithy and of a golden-green color. The leaves are
                        olive-green above and whitish underneath, slightly resembling 
                        
                            
                                THE SONG OF THE RIVER
                            
                            
                                The river chants a triumphal song
                                To the music of harping trees,
                                In whispers and sobs it ripples along
                                To the humming of the bees.
                                A leaping bass flings showers of spray,
                                A cardinal mounts on flaming wings,
                                And every of the summer day
                                Thrills with joy of the life it sings.
                            
                        
                         maple foliage, but they are more artistically
                        cut.
                    The buds are incased in a big, loose, heavily veined covering that opens to
                        permit their exit, and this cover is set in a fringed cup, adding an
                        artistic touch. The rosy, delicate, pink bloom emerges in a crumpled, folded
                        state, and slowly opens and stretches to a smooth trumpet-shaped flower, as
                        the wings of a moth expand and grow even; and it appears in late July and
                        August, when it has a solid green background to emphasize its beauty and
                        scarcely a rival to attract attention from it. There are five petals of the
                        bloom, maroon at the base, abruptly shading to delicate pink at the edges,
                        and strongly veined with maroon color on the outside. The flowers measure
                        from four to six inches across and closely resemble pink hollyhocks. At the
                        base the stamens and pistils combine in a tube that spreads in a
                        pollen-covered tip and attracts bees and all sweet-lovers to the plant. When
                        the petals fall, the case that opened for their exit closes again, and the
                        seeds ripen inside. From pods that I gathered beside the river I have two
                        mallow plants growing at my well curb. They were kept during winter and
                        planted in early spring. Mallows bear cultivation easily in sufficiently
                        damp places, but they can not have too much water.
                    The river with its accompanying voices forms 
                        a characteristic part of the Song of the Fields; a pure, liquid note tinged
                        with serene and tranquil melody sung from a perfect setting, and perhaps
                        draws a larger audience than any other music of the open.River Voices Because the fields are
                        the scene of man's greatest activity, the voice of toiling humanity
                        is their dominant note.
                    The roar of great cities, the screaming of lake, river, and railroad traffic,
                        and the busy hum of workers in the fields combine in the song of life. But
                        bare and unadorned existence is an ugly, sordid thing, so some men have kept
                        all the beauty they could. That part of the original gift of the Lord to the
                        children of men that they themselves have preserved furnishes every picture
                        it rests our weary eyes to see and every note our tired ears care most to
                        hearthe divine and unceasing Song of the Fields.
                    
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    PART III The Music of the Marsh
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    "Angles of water-fowl winnowed the purple
                                        sky.
                                    Clanging their trumpet notes!
                                    As If from brazen throats,
                                    And seeming to fan the star-dust with their
                                        wings."
                                
                                Thompson.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        GOD'S FLOWER GARDEN
                    
                    
                        
                            Come with me and you shall know!
                            The garden where God's flowers grow.
                            Come with me and you shall hear
                            His waters whisper songs of cheer.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        THEE TOADS' DUET
                    
                    The Music of the Marsh
                    "PAT O'ROURKE! Pat O'Rourke! Pat
                        O'Rourke!" rolls Father Bullfrog's basso
                        profundo.
                    "Got drunk! Got drunk! Got drunk!" echoes Mother
                        Bullfrog's contralto, responsive.
                    "Keel 'im! Keel 'im Keel 'im!"
                        pipes the youngster's shrill treble.
                    Thus the frogs sing the opening chorus.The Prelude Through earth's long winter
                        sleep the marsh lies the barest and dreariest of places. With the first
                        Black frost all its tender, succulent water plants and vines droop their
                        graceful heads and become masses of decaying vegetation. Stripped of
                        June's riot of foliage and bloom, the bushes stand bare and
                        scraggy. The trees reach heavenward stark branches, like bony fingers, as if
                        imploring the powers of nature to come quickly and reclothe  them in their coats of living green. Somber
                        and almost deserted the marsh lies, while above it towers the
                        woodpecker's drum, a monument to loneliness.
                    Then comes Jack Frost, waving his magician's wand and transforming
                        the gray old marsh to a scene of splendor. Not a tree, bush or log does he
                        miss when he spreads his white robe and scatters his jewels; and his
                        lace-webbed work on fine vines and weeds is most beautiful of all. Betimes a
                        cardinal flashes like a tongue of flame across the white sheen, powdering
                        his gay plumage with crystals as he searches for seeds or rocks on a twig
                        and sings to the world of "Good cheer!" Again, a song
                        sparrow bravely pipes in the face of ice and snow, a falcon cries or a hawk
                        screams. Small gray titmice chatter socially as they search for seed, and
                        crows, appearing their biggest and blackest in this white setting, keep
                        watchful eyes for the sleeping quarters of all smaller birds.
                    From hollow trees the squirrels loudly bark. There are long irregular trails
                        across the snow where the furred people go hunting, and down to the water to
                        drink, and trampled places where the cotton-tails dance in the moonlight.
                        And always, with darkness, from big hollow sycamores slip the only feathered
                        singers of winter nightsthe owlswith faces to fear, soundless wings, and
                        dreadful claws, to prey on other musicians.
                    
                    
                        
                            THE RESURRECTION
                        
                        
                            "I heard a whisper sweet and keen
                            Flow through the fringe of rushes green,
                            The water saying some light thing,
                            The rushes gayly answering."
                        
                        Thompson.
                    
                    
                    At last the sun creeps nearer and smiles ardently, and the heart of the
                        pregnant marsh grows warm. The winds come sweeping with wailing notes and
                        carry away earth's leafy covering; the rains pour, and vegetation
                        springs to meet them. As soon as silky catkins hang from the willows and
                        frogs sing their first chorus, only a few days are required to transform the
                        bare old earth into summer fairyland. Graceful, gayly-colored plants and
                        flowers lift their heads everywhere. Like magic, water grasses, cattails,
                        flags, ferns, and delicate lacy, twining vines spring up to cover the black
                        muck, while moss and air plants trail overhead. Every stump and log has a
                        bright velvet dress, and crimpled lichen faces renew their unending shades
                        of gray and green.
                    Pond lily pads reach the surface and spread over acres of water, their
                        covering of golden green with tints of purple underneath furnishing
                        choir-lofts for the frogs, sun parlors for tiny turtles, and good hunting
                        grounds for small, wire-legged sanderlings. Above them yellow lilies thrust
                        leaves of ranker growth, and these in turn are crowned with the heart-shaped
                        foliage of water hyacinth. Then come the sweet marsh grasses, blue flags,
                        and foxfire, topped with waving cattails and bulrushes, and high above all
                        the graceful wild rice waves its feathery plumes.
                    The marsh flowers form masses of positive coloring.  Pearl white and pearl fine are the lustrous blooms of the
                        arrowhead. White pond lilies lift faces of snow to the morning and resemble
                        star reflections at night, while the yellow are the purest gold of
                        nature's alchemy. Water hyacinths and blue flags flash back the
                        azure of the sky above them, and clumps of foxfire blaze like flaming
                        torches.
                    On the tops of the highest mountains can be found evidence that they once
                        were submerged, and so I imagine that as the water receded, in the
                        beginning, the whole earth was one great marsh. When the waters evaporated
                        or were pushed back by eruptions, the highest places were left bare, the
                        next highest grew forests, the lower remain marsh, and the lowest lakes and
                        seas.
                    The road to the marsh is not so difficult to find as that to the forest.the road to the mahsh
                        Men learn that it is easier to fell and burn trees than to control water in
                        depth and quantity. The marsh road probably will be either deep sand or
                        corduroy laid in a bed of muck; a mere path to the object of your goal, but
                        on either side of it lies the garden of the Lord. Acres upon acres of the
                        most brilliant color waving above man-height, interlaced by delicate vines
                        and watered with fountains springing naturally from the wet bosom of earth
                        and flowing away in tiny streams so narrow they are soon lost beneath the
                        flowers closing over them, and so cold they 
                        
                            
                                THE ROAD TO THE MARSH
                            
                            
                                One misty. dreary August morning. !
                                When the sunshine left without giving warning.
                            
                        
                         seem as if ice-chilled, each bank fringed
                        with water cress.
                    The masses of flowers are made up of golden-rod, aster, ironweed, Joe
                        Pye-weed, milkweed, swamp laurel, cardinal flower, turtlehead, and daisies
                        peeping wherever they can reach the light. There are cone flowers, swamp
                        sunflowers, everything you know, and others the books fail to name, among
                        the vines and mosses especially; and all of abnormal growth from the rich
                        muck, warmth, and the abundance of water.
                    Although it is not so easy to attack the swamp as the forest, on all sides
                        man is pressing close. Big ditches are being dredged, leading from the
                        marshes lying highest on the face of earth to lower bodies of running water,
                        so that the marsh level is reduced by several feet, giving an unbelievable
                        amount of space that soon dries for cultivation. I know of homes being built
                        so close the marsh that water rises in your footsteps between rows of
                        cultivated vegetables. Everywhere the marsh is driven back, and as it
                        recedes men hurry in with garden truck first, and grain later.
                    The character of wild growth changes as moisture is removed. Mullein and
                        thistle take the place of flowers of damper habit. Because they are so tall,
                        so delicate, and of such clear, exquisite blue, marsh lilies (Camassia fraseri) are conspicuous above any. They grow where it is
                        slightly high  and sandy, but close the water,
                        and spring from a deeply-rooted bulb.The Bumblebee Choir The leaves are like those of a
                        tuberose, and from a tall, slender stem grow single flowers forming a
                        cluster that slightly resembles hyacinths. They are loaded with pollen, and
                        the wild honey-bee and all species of bumblebees, in fact, ants, flies, and
                        sweet-lovers of every family, feast upon them. They are one of the rarest
                        and most beautiful blues of nature, and the music around them is
                        unceasing.
                    From the top of an elevation from which the sweet marsh grass had been shorn
                        I looked down to a cultivated strip bordering a marsh, last August. I could
                        see blades of corn waving, and distinguish a solid mass of peculiar
                        blue-green. Making my way through the intervening swamp, and climbing a
                        fence buried in bloom. I came to the queerest effort at cultivation I ever
                        had seen. From a layer of soil so thin that it would not bear my weight
                        without quivering beneath me the flowers had been mowed, and with such
                        cultivation as could be given with a hoe were growing the finest cucumbers
                        and cabbage imaginable. The picture I made there illustrates the character
                        of the soil and proves how closely men are pressing the marsh, as no words
                        of mine can.
                    It was Thoreau who, in writing of the destruction of the forests, exclaimed,
                        "Thank Heaven, they can not cut down the clouds!" Aye, but
                        they 
                        
                            
                                MARSH LILIES
                            
                            
                                "Every tongue of Nature sings; !
                                The air is palpitant with wings."
                            
                            Thompson.
                        
                         can! That is a miserable fact, and soon it
                        will become our discomfort and loss. Clouds are beds of vapor arising from
                        damp places and floating in air until they meet other vapor masses, that
                        mingle with them, and the weight becomes so great the whole falls in drops
                        of rain. If men in their greed cut forests that preserve and distil
                        moisture, clear fields, take the shelter of trees from creeks and rivers
                        until they evaporate, and drain the water from swamps so that they can be
                        cleared and cultivated,they prevent vapor from rising; and
                        if it does not rise it can not fall. Pity of pities it is; but man can
                        change and is changing the forces of nature. I never told a sadder truth,
                        but it is truth that man can "cut down the clouds." In
                        utter disregard or ignorance of what he will do to himself, his children,
                        and his country he persists in doing it wherever he can see a few cents in
                        the sacrifice.
                    And of all the dreary, desolate places for a home these little cabins perched
                        on a small elevation at the edge of a marsh are the worst, especially in the
                        mists of morning and evening.Cutting Down the Clouds I can see the artistic
                        possibilities of the gray cabin, the heavy mists, the drenched grasses, the
                        straggling, vine-covered old fences, and the vapor-shrouded trees and swamp.
                        It is all most beautiful, but so desolate. As a setting for a funeral it is
                        appropriate, but as a home it appeals to me as insupportable.  Home means solid foundations, light, pure
                        air, congenial surroundings; and while the marsh is the most beautiful place
                        in the whole world in summer; in early spring, late fall, and winter it is
                        bare and cheerless. In recompense for this, summer outdoes herself in a
                        babel of music, masses of glowing flower color, delicate mosses too fragile
                        to touch, and swaying vines festooned everywhere they can find something to
                        which to cling.
                    One lovely swamp vine that I never have seen used in decoration or
                        conventionalized or in fact reproduced anywhere outside botanies, is the
                        ground nut.Ground Nut
                        Unfortunately for my study, the only perfect vine I ever have found grew on
                        that thing I most detest, disfiguring the face of naturea wire fence. This
                        fence crossed a tract so swampy, rails soon deeayed, and wire was
                        substituted. The location was on the banks of the Elk-hart River, in a very
                        marshy country.
                    The vine springs from a pear-shaped tuber that botanists pronounce edible.
                        The leaves grow along a stem, five to a group. The ground nut bloom clusters
                        slightly resemble wistaria, but in beauty and exquisite perfume far exceed
                        its loveliest flowers. The bean-shaped blossoms are essentially so wild, so
                        of the swamps. They grow in a short tassel, are of rich brown and maroon
                        color, and as clusters are turned in the light a changeable shade of lilac
                        shows strongly; and added to 
                        
                            
                                A MARSH GARDEN
                            
                            
                                They cut God's brightest flowers away,!
                                Dropping each swaying, graceful head,
                                And used the earth shereon they grew
                                To make a cabbage bed.
                            
                        
                         that, the entire surface of the bloom is of
                        texture velvet-fine. A short distance away the blooms smell like the
                        sweetest of English violets; closer, a touch of pungency that is pure
                        wildness can be discerned.
                    Held to light the flower presents lilac shades on the outer surfaces, maroon
                        in the middle distances, and rich, velvety brown in the depths. All the
                        plant requires is fertile, damp soil to make a vigorous growth; so it is
                        easily domesticated. For downright grace and richness of coloring it
                        surpasses any cultivated vine of which I can think at this time, and being
                        edible, there would be no danger in transplanting it.
                    Another delicious plant of the marshes is water cress.The Nose Twister Wherever there are
                        streams fed by springs and cold enough to harbor trout, there pungent water
                        cress grows. The leaves and stems of this plant at its prime make one of the
                        most appetizing and healthful salads known. It grows from six to ten inches
                        in height, with brownish, dark-green leaves in early spring, gradually
                        becoming lighter as summer advances. The leaves are round and form compound
                        clusters of from three to nine. The tiny white flower is insignificant.
                    Its scientific term is Nasturtium officinale, derived from
                        the Latin nasus, meaning nose, and tortus, twisted; the name originating from the fact that pungent
                        odors of the plant sting and  twist sensitive
                        organs. So extremely thrifty is this water member of the nasturtium family
                        along creeks and cold running water that I know large streams that are
                        literally choked with cress, running through miles of unbroken marsh. The
                        music is threefold. There is water ten inches deep whispering and gurgling
                        around the stems, bees visit the blossoms, and the human voice rings loudly
                        and clearly when a bed is discovered in early spring; for this is just the
                        tonie needed to thin sluggish winter blood. The biting tang is craved by the
                        system, and a shout of joy greets the discovery; so it, too, has a place in
                        this music-book.
                    There is more human as well as bird and insect music every time a lover of
                        nature on his way to the marsh finds a bed of Cornus
                            amomum in bloom.Silky Cornel It grows from two to six feet high, and leaves
                        densely before it flowers; there is an especial cluster around the blooms.
                        These heads are made from masses of fine white flowers, each having four
                        wide-open petals, an exaggerated set of stamens, and long pistil, so that
                        the pollen, when ripe and dusty, gives a golden tinge to the entire white
                        cluster.
                    Quantities of this pollen must be used by tame bees, or else there is a
                        worldful, having the same snappy, tart wild tang; for the bees of country
                        hives make honey that has precisely this flavor. In the fall each flower
                        cluster is represented by 
                        
                            
                                THE NOSE TWISTER
                            
                            
                                "Vines are the curtains,
                                Blossoms the floor;
                                Voices of waters
                                Sing evermore."
                            
                            Taylor.
                        
                         a bunch of hard berries, at first green,
                        later almost white, and not good to eat.
                    In early June on any thorn or willow growing along the road to the marsh a
                        short search will reveal a treasure that I do not understand why poets fail
                        to sing.The Mothof the
                            Marsh You find a dangling, oblong cocoon, hanging from a twig by
                        a bit of spinning. The outside appears as if it were coated with lime and
                        then wrapped in leaves, whose veining shows with remarkable clearness. All
                        the long winter, during the cold rains, snows, ice, and winds, it hangs and
                        is buffeted; but by late May or early June a wet spot develops on the top.
                        Soon a struggling big night moth climbs out and clings with its feet to the
                        under side of a limb.
                    There the crumpled wet wings straighten, expand, and develop a sweep of from
                        six to six and a half incheslarger than a wrenand take on an indescribable
                        richness of color. Almost every shade from lightest tan to dark-brown makes
                        up a complicated series of linings and veinings, that are brighter in color
                        on the upper side and touched with pink. Each wing has a transparent
                        eye-spot like isinglass, so that print can be read through it, and the body
                        and feet are covered with long, fine, velvety down.
                    The moths fly the first night after they emerge; mate, deposit their eggs,
                        and soon die. The caterpillar that hatches, eats thorn or willow leaves,  grows for five or six weeks, then spins a
                        cocoon around itself, and lies dormant during the winter, developing another
                        big moth that will flit above the marshes, fields, and towns the coming
                        June, and awake a joy song in the heart of every one who sees it.
                    Typical marsh begins with cultivated land running down to a stretch of wild
                        growth that shades off into masses of water grasses, cattails, and
                        bulrushes. These in turn are edged by true water flowers, hyacinths, blue
                        flags, arrowhead lilies, then the water; and that covered for acres with
                        yellow lilies near the shore, farther out the spreading leaves and masses of
                        white flowers blanketing as much more of the surface, and next clear, deep
                        water in which you can row and fish.
                    At first, in crossing the waters of a marsh, the eye is almost blinded and
                        the senses stunned by the glory of the masses of colors, and as you become
                        accustomed to fairyland a roll of swelling, throbbing sound fills the
                        ears.
                    Then, ho, for the music of the marsh! It begins with the frogs.The Chorus of the Frogs
                        When the first faint breath of catkin pollen tinges the wind, morning and
                        evening vesper is caroled by a babel of voices and a pean of praise greets
                        every passing shower. The moment the sun shows his face, orange-bellied
                        tree-toads with backs like an unusually brilliant lichen plaster themselves
                        to limbs from which it is 
                        
                            
                                THE MOTH OF THE MARSH
                            
                            
                                Her empty house beside her dangles,!
                                While her jeweled wings she tries;
                                Waiting a mate in perfumed tangles,
                                Where the shining marsh moth flies.
                            
                        
                         almost impossible to distinguish them, and in
                        solo, duet, and full chorus set up a never-ending petition for more rain.
                        Bullfrogs drum until one wonders what would be the size of their bodies were
                        they in proportion with their vocal powers.
                    But it is only for a few days that the frogs are allowed to monopolize the
                        musie, for when the green hyla pipes and the bullfrog drums, the entire
                        aquatie orchestra and the full chorus make haste to join them. Nowhere else
                        in nature do scales, fur, feathers, and gauzy-winged things meet in such
                        commonalty. Here black bass, musk-rat, and blue heron seek their food in the
                        same water.
                    Marsh music is unceasing, and it is all so good.Marsh Music As you guide your boat
                        between the rushes and glide softly over the lily pads, sweet as Eolian
                        harps is the music of the wind sobbing among the branches, the rushes
                        rustling with each passing breeze, the grasses whispering together, and the
                        softly lapping water. You hear crickets singing as cheerily as beneath the
                        hearthstone; grasshoppers voicing constant praise of the sweet marsh growth;
                        honey-ladened wild bees droning over the pollen, and swaying snakefeeders
                        singing on the rushes.
                    O, how the snakefeeders swing and sing, and how beautiful they are! There are
                        many members in the family, all of bright color; a trim head,  big eyes, a slender, long body, dainty legs,
                        and four wings set in pairs on each side, with a strong costa or rib along
                        the front edge, the remainder the transparent isinglass of the locust.When Dragonflies Sing
                        They have a pair of sharp grinders in the mouth, and feed on small insects
                        among the rushes. As every living creature has equal rights to life with all
                        others, the tragedy is quite as great when a dragon fly pounces upon a water
                        spider and tears off its legs and eats the body as when a hawk sweeps down
                        upon a partridge and carries it away.
                    Dragon flies are the typical insects of the marsh, and of beauty surpassing
                        all others. Not only are their bodies brightly colored, but their wings
                        glitter as diamonds in the light. They have curving, jointed antenae, and
                        grow to a wing-spread of four inches in some larger species, so that they
                        attack prey the size of cabbage butterflies. They deposit their eggs in
                        water, and their young are aquatic until time to take wing; when they crawl
                        on the rushes, burst their covering, and emerge damp and crumpled, like
                        night moths. Soon, however, their wings expand and harden, and they begin to
                        flash their glancing colors over the marshes and sing their song on the
                        thwarts of your boat; yes, even on the brim of your hat. They stray far
                        inland, and often when on the road to the marsh you can see them hunting
                        through beds of rank bergamot and cone flower, ruthlessly destroying 
                        
                            DRAGON FLY
                        
                        
                        
                            
                            
                                "Where the duskp turtle lies basking on the
                                    gravel
                                Of the sunny sand-bar in the middle tide. !
                                And the ghostlp dragon fla pauses in his travel
                                To rest like a blossom where the water lilo
                                    died."
                            
                            Riley.
                            
                        
                         every small sweet-hunter to be found; so that
                        they become veritable dragons, and their name applies to them rarely
                        well.
                    These same beds of bergamot deserve a passing mention.Marsh Bergamot In botanies they are
                        located on higher ground, but no dry place ever bred them in such profusion
                        as the margin of some swamps I know. The illustration here given was made of
                        flowers that grew in a damp approach to a marsh, and the bergamot was so
                        thrifty it waved graceful heads high above me in the summer of 1907, and
                        also over yellow cone flowers, that in dry locations are usually taller.
                        This bed of bergamot grew from six to eight feet in height and spread along
                        my path for the greater part of a quarter of a mile in just such profusion
                        as is shown in this study. I doubt if the plant ever surpassed the growth
                        here shown. The hairy stems grew straight and slender, the sharply pointed
                        leaves were rough, having a whitish east, and the flowers were a large head,
                        from which sprang many small trumpet-shaped blooms, with a prominent upper
                        lip growing fine hairs. The center stamens and pistil were of stronger
                        color. The blooms were a pale magenta-purple, at times almost pure lavender,
                        and you knew you were close the heart of nature when you smelled them. Their
                        perfume struck the nostrils as the tang of a wild apple excites the palate.
                        It brought the savage to the surface and made one  cry with Walt Whitman, "I think I could turn me and
                        live with the animals."
                    There is music in the voices of the furred people.Animal Talk It may sound like
                        sniffling, grunting, and growling to us, but that is because we fail in our
                        translations. They are searching for food, building their homes, raising
                        their babies, loving and caring for their mates just as do human folk, and
                        when undisturbed all their notes are of love and tenderness.
                    There is music in the water. Can you name a sweeter note than the splash of
                        the black bass so full of abundant life it can not keep beneath the surface?
                        And how fond it is of making this music everywhere except in the immediate
                        vicinity of your boat! You may drag up your muck and moss-ladened anchor
                        until your back aches, and row in pursuit until your hands blister; but
                        always you hear the music of the splash and see the widening circles of
                        waves from a leaping bass just a short distance away.
                    Where deep water meets those reeds and rushes that grow beneath the surface,
                        the variety fishermen call "bass-weeds," the children of
                        nature are close together, and creatures of land and water habit find
                        themselves in touch.Water
                            Voices Such shores are beautiful, and in great marshes stretch
                        away endlessly. Living creatures are so numerous you need not linger to
                        study their music; it travels with you. 
                        
                            
                                MARSH BERGAMOT
                            
                            
                                "Ware I in churchless solitudes remaining,
                                Far from all voice of teachers and divines,
                                My soul would find, in flowers of God's
                                    ordaining,
                                Priests, sermons, shrines!"
                            
                            Smith
                        
                         You can hear what the lark tells the
                        cardinal, the cardinal tells the heron, the heron tells the duck, the duck
                        tells the turtle, the turtle tells the muskrat, the muskrat tells the bass,
                        the bass tells the water puppy, and the water puppy tells the eel, all along
                        your way. The story is musical because it is recitative of freedom, living,
                        and loving.
                    But of all nature's minstrelsy the palm always must be awarded the
                            birds.The Bird
                            Chorus The fact that the music of the marsh is distinctive to the
                        location, only makes it dearer to those so in sympathy with it as to
                        interpret aright. Long before the marsh is ready to receive them its
                        feathered denizens are hovering over it, filling the air with exquisite song
                        while they wait the laying of the foundation on which to begin the
                        superstructure of their homes. Marsh wrens intersperse their love-making
                        with scolding chatter because the rushes grow so slowly. While they wait,
                        red-winged blackbirds, true children of the marsh, rock on the flags and
                        swell their throats with notes so liquid and golden that in all birdland the
                        most exquisite singer can produce but a faint breath of harmony above their
                        "O-ka-lee!" and "Con-quer-eee!"
                    Counting out the pervasive, black-coated crow, a permanent resident, the
                        killdeer is the first musician to reach the marsh. In early seasons he
                        arrives in March; under any conditions he is sure in April. When flocks of
                        these birds circle against  the sun, high
                        above you their breasts gleam silver-like, and they fling through space
                        their lovable "Kill-deer, kill-deer!" cry until you
                        recognize in them one of the attractions that draws you there. Over desk and
                        counter all the long winter you have hungered for their exquisite notes. Now
                        they are a treat for your ears, and your eyes follow the graceful gleaming
                        figures across the sky with admiration and interest you never before
                        realized you had felt in them.
                    Enough of the instinct of the plover family clings to the killdeer to induce
                        us to believe it is a true marsh bird, for it lands there on arrival and
                        hunts food until it is plentiful everywhere.Killdeer Notes But when nesting-time comes it is
                        quite as likely to seek upland and prairie as to remain around the marsh.
                        Two peculiarities of a brooding killdeer are always worth mentioning. Since
                        the nest is a mere hollow of earth, with only a few clods and chips drawn
                        together, the eggs are so colored as to be indistinguishable from their
                        surroundings, and so sharply pointed that the severest winds only circle
                        them on their bases, but do not roll them away. As a further preventive of
                        this the mothers always place them with the four sharp points nosing each
                        other in the nest.
                    Also, the killdeer is so fanatically devoted to its young that its tones are
                        plaintive with anxiety. A great difference can be distinguished between 
                        
                            
                                SILKY CORNEL
                            
                            
                                "There is some one must hear the tune,
                                And feel the thrilling words,
                                As flowers feel in early June,
                                The wings of humming-birds."
                            
                            Thompson.
                        
                         the notes of the male away pleasuring and
                        those of the brooding mother. Early in incubation she deserts her nest as
                        readily as any other bird; near its close, when she feels against her breast
                        the workings of small feet and wings quickening into life, when to her ears
                        come the first faint calls of her shell-incased babies, the music of Elysium
                        has touched her heart, she becomes possessed with the spirit of martyrdom,
                        ready to die at her post. If she sees your approach in time to dart a rod
                        from her nest, by feigning a broken wing she almost invariably can tole you
                        from her location. If you take her unaware she stands astride her eggs,
                        valiantly pecking at your hand, and frequently suffering your touch like a
                        brooding domestic bird.
                    Who that has seen a killdeer nestling can blame her? In all bird-babyland
                        there is nothing more cunning to see or more appealing to hear. They have a
                        tiny, wedge-shaped body little over an inch in length; a small, sharp beak
                        for probing; a cap of speckled pepper and salt, with a black band and a
                        white visor; a broad collar, snowy white, with a black tie; a white vest
                        shading to delicate salmon in the under parts; a coat and upper sleeves to
                        match the cap crown, with elbow bands of black and lower sleeves of white,
                        and the legs bare well above the second joint for wading. This is as it
                        should be; for, think what a pity to soil so elegant a suit  merely to appease the appetite! And how these
                        tiny legs fly! In fright or excitement they flash across the sand and stones
                        with such rapidity that you can not distinguish their motion, and the babies
                        appear like small airships.
                    In all marsh music there is no more plaintive and wholly sweet tone than
                        their faltering, pleading baby notes in rendering the tribal call of the
                            family.Infant
                            Pipings They pipe it out as if uncertain about its being right,
                        but perfectly confident that it will bring protection, provided they make it
                        sufficiently pathetic. There never should be any wonder that these mothers
                        so valiantly risk their lives for their babies.
                    The wonder should be if they did not; and when we stop to think of it we
                        realize that it is for these things we love them. To know the killdeer is to
                        delight in its music and respect its character. Excepting the upland
                        species, that also like marshy places, the remainder of the members of the
                        plover family are more constant to the marsh, taking pleasure trips, nesting
                        and raising their babies, and their notes are among the most attractive of
                        its music. They have three distinctive utterances commonly heard.
                    The common plover note is a clear, penetrating whistle, long-drawn, mellow,
                        resonantbeautiful music. Their mating cry, very seldom heard except between
                        a pair busy with household affairs 
                        
                            
                                WILD RICE
                            
                            
                                "Ho, for the marshes, green with spring,
                                Where the bitterns croak and the plovers
                                    pipe,
                                Where the gaunt old heron spreads his wing,
                                Above the haunt of rail and
                                    snipe."
                            
                            Thompson.
                        
                         of gravest importance, is a loud, mournful
                        wail, resembling the sobbing of a November wind among the pines. Like the
                        killdeer's note, it is so tinged with parental concern that, being
                        heard by hunting parties coming in at night, it causes an involuntary
                        shudder. When disturbed in brooding, the female screams lustily, much like a
                        half dozen other marsh birds; and her mate answers from afar with a strident
                        insistence that might be interpreted as an effort to encourage her to remain
                        on her nest. He thrashes among the grass and rushes, and makes a big
                        demonstration, but it ends at that, for he keeps his distance.
                    When brooding is over and flocks of plover are caring for and pleasuring with
                        their young, they have a grand concert that is delightful and alluring.The Whistling Plover
                        They congregate around the mouth of some small creek that empties into the
                        marsh, skimming low over the water and hunting food close the roots of the
                        marsh weeds and flowers. This is real plover music. Then the peeping and
                        cheeping of the young and the chatter and chirp of the old ones resemble in
                        volume the vocalizing of ducks. Their notes grow clearer and sweeter, more
                        nearly like those of a songbird.
                    They are small, plump-breasted, friendly bodies, that in dry weather go
                        tilting over rotten logs, and with sharp, dainty bills probe the moss for
                        worms. Four in a row they line up and watch  a
                        boat drift by close enough to photograph them. Children of the Wild The
                        coming of a storm develops their true plover nature. Then they are a sight
                        to see, and rare music to hear. Skimming along close to the surface of the
                        water, darting through reeds and rushes, wheeling, dipping, alert, full of
                        life and grace, they become for the time different birds from their dry
                        weather selves. They seem exalted, glorying in the tumult of the elements,
                        and as they sail with the storm or wheel and beat against the face of it,O,
                        what music! Clear, sweet, pure of tone, scarce a note in the marsh can
                        surpass it.
                    Good hunting to his liking adds the rattle of the kingfisher to the marsh
                        chorus early in May. His coat is as vivid a spot in air as the sweet flag
                        and water hyacinth below him. Among these somber-robed marsh musicians his
                        bright color is a delight to the eye; his rollicking call a series of jolly
                        notes good to hear. They may not embody so much melody, but there is nothing
                        sneaking about them. They give fair notice of his coming and intentions.
                    Does the word "sneak" call to mind the crow? He belongs to
                        the marsh choirbe is a part of its daily life, his notes come with greater
                        frequency and intrusion than those of any other bird. He is constantly
                        slipping everywhere and peering into nests, to the sorrow of many smaller
                        musicians; for he is dangerous near eggs and young.
                    
                    
                    
                    "Caw, caw, caw, cawk," he cries from every tree-top and
                        stump.
                    When the tall marsh grasses and the blue flags wave as with the sinuous
                        passage of a large snake, and a low, steady, prolonged
                        "Um-um-um-um" comes booming across the water, know that
                        you are poaching on the preserves of a king rail, and that the male bird is
                        going into an impromptu convulsion in the hope of luring you from his
                            nest.The King Rail
                            Performs If you follow and search for him you may catch a glimpse
                        of an elegant, bright brown water bird darting between the stems of the
                        grasses among which he feeds.
                    But if you remain in your first location and search until you find his home,
                        you will see that nature seldom has been more generous with the treats she
                        has in store for her lovers.The Cradle of Royalty The nest, eggs, and home life of the king
                        rail are beautiful things, and should be known by every friend of the marsh.
                        Search for a hummock only a few inches above the water, where the dead, dry,
                        straw-colored grass blades of last year are trampled into a large, flat,
                        bowl-shaped nest. It is slightly lined with finer grasses and a few feathers
                        of a rich dark-brown color, twice narrowly banded with white, plucked from
                        the breast of the mother near the butt of the wing. Here are cradled as many
                        as twelve whitish eggs, sparsely sprinkled with small reddish spots, and
                        splotched with larger markings  of pale
                        lavender that have the effect of being dabbled on with a brush and seen
                        through an oily veiling. Then the tops of the flags and young grasses are
                        caught and deftly woven into a cool green arch above the rich straw-colored
                        bed that holds these rarely beautiful eggs, making a picture that must be
                        seen to be appreciated fully.
                    Some experience will be required in detecting a location, so slightly does
                        the roofing of the nest affect the general appearance of the marsh. Careful
                        searching will reveal the "run-a-way," usually at the
                        northeast, through which the slender-bodied mother slips to feed and
                        rest.
                    If you have the luck to find a nest after a few days of brooding so has
                        burned the mother heart that she will remain, you will become acquainted
                        with a lovely, graceful bird, whose poise, dignity, and extreme courage will
                        compel your admiration and make you wish her voice were sweetest music as
                        would seem befitting her splendid presence.A Queen Mother Her long, dark beak is finely cut
                        and curved. Her eves are so wise, and filled with steady, tender devotion.
                        Her coloring is a rich brown, quite dark on the top of the head, lighter in
                        a streak running from the base of the beak above the eye and on the throat,
                        and lining across the back of the wings in varied marking of brown, black,
                        and white with beautiful V-shaped effects.
                    If you touch her or go too close she utters a 
                        
                            
                                A QUEEN MOTHER
                            
                            
                                Where the Queen of all the marsh birds,!
                                Royal in her emerald nest,
                                Rules as in Venetian palace.
                                On the water's shimmering breast.
                            
                        
                         rasping "Gyck, gyck," but
                        she does not desert her nest and eggs. True men admire motherhood. No spot
                        in their hearts is so tender as the place for wife and child. No sight is so
                        appealing as that of a mother shielding her baby. These birds are mothers
                        also, with true, maternal instinct. When you look into the brave eyes of
                        this feathered mother, one of nature's shyest, wildest creatures,
                        that fears you as death, yet steadily remains on her nest for the sake of
                        the mites she is protecting,take off your hat to one of the finest
                        exhibitions of courage you ever will be permitted to see.
                    While you are becoming acquainted with her, away in the marsh the grasses
                        bend as before a strong wind with the frantic rushes of her agonized mate,
                        who answers her cry with a sharper: "Gyck, gyck," and
                        rumbles his groaning "Um-um-um-um," making the nearest
                        approach to the boom of a bittern of any other marsh bird.Characteristic Music
                        It may not be the most pleasing music, but corning from strong characters
                        with brave hearts, it compels warm sympathy always.
                    The king rail is a wader with slender bare legs and feet, neither webbed nor
                        lobed, but having long, slim toes with sharp nails. A marsh adjacent to a
                        corn field is his chosen location. His favorite diet is seed rich in
                        starches, from the weeds and grasses, that make him a plump, dainty dish  for the epicure by fall, when he is fair game
                        in season."
                    To look at the cattails and swamp grasses growing five and six feet tall, and
                        the graceful heads of wild rice like feather dusters sweeping the sky and
                        scattering seeds over the water, one would think the food on which the rail
                        fattens would be lost; but when the Almighty works out a design in nature
                        there are no missing parts, and the mind of man must study deeply to
                        comprehend His plans and providences. Wherever the wild rice and seed grass
                        grow for the food of marsh birds, beneath you will find that the Lord has
                        spread a table of stout, overlapping lily pads, upon which lie scatters the
                        seed with the winds, and the birds dine royally. They are very fond of wild
                        rice, and some birds eat the seed of the yellow pond lily that ripens in
                        peculiar cone-shaped heads.
                    When your boat slips through the mists of earliest morning the first note you
                        will hear is the long, shrill "Kuw, kuw, kuw!" of the
                        cinereous coot.The Herald of
                            Dawn At its best the performance of the herald of dawn is only
                        slightly touched with melody, but it is a distinctive note that you would
                        miss if you did not hear; for it is a part of that first eager, throbbing
                        joy that grips your throat and thrills your heart over your initial day of
                        freedom for the season.
                    You will recognize the tribal call, a short, hard 
                        
                            
                                THE MARSH BROOK
                            
                            
                                A sweet low song the marsh brook sings!
                                As it glides by Joe-Pye-Weed and thistle.
                                Accompanied by bees and crisp insect wings,
                                And the notes of the plover's gay
                                    whistle.
                            
                        
                         "Pitts, pitts!" as one you
                        frequently have heard around your boat, even if you never have seen the
                        bird. Like all marsh residents in excitement or anger, the coot screamsa
                        deep, guttural cry, most unpleasant, and music that can be avoided easily;
                        for he will not perform it unless you trample on his rights and provoke
                        him.
                    The coot appears to be the connecting link between the weding and the
                        swimming birds. It is a queer compound, having the compact body of the
                        grain-eater, the long, bare legs of the wader, and the lobed feet of a
                        swriminer. It is a true marsh bird, avoiding lakes and running water,
                        breeding and pleasuring among the reeds and rushes, and swimming in the open
                        pools. It is almost as expert a diver as the grebe, but the lobed feet that
                        make it such a splendid swimmer are slightly awkward on land; and though a
                        fairly good runner, it is not nearly so agile as the rail.
                    Perhaps this watchman, who for centuries has announced to the marsh the first
                        red peep of coming day, has tinged his coat by long contact with the black
                        muck and water.The
                            Herald's Official Robe Aside from the mourning of the
                        crow, and the brighter black lit by iridescent gleams of the blackbird, the
                        coot is the most somber-robed musician of the marsh. He wears a suit of dark
                        steel-gray, shading to black on the wings and tail. The head-feathering is
                        fine to the touch as moleskin, and of velvety 
                        blackness. He has full brilliant eyes, and a beak by which he can be
                        identified. The mandibles are close the length of a duck's, but
                        pointed and rather sharp, of a beautiful white, with opalescent tints of
                        pale pink and salmon. The nostrils are long and sharply cut, and a narrow,
                        rufous band bridges the upper part, lapping on each side of the lower. His
                        make-up displays two unusual and comical attempts at decoration. At the base
                        of the upper mandible the coot wears a large frontal plate of bright
                        chestnut, and the under side of the short tail is lined with white. Aside
                        from these, in his dark robe and black cowl he is in dress the plainest
                        resident of the marsh.
                    During the breeding season the male bird lines off his nesting location and
                        swims around close his mate, guarding, and keeping her company.Young Trumpeters Woe to
                        any bird that encroaches on the invisible boundary! Coots nest beside the
                        water in the tall marsh grasses, and lay from six to ten large,
                        yellowish-brown eggs, heavily dotted with darker spots on the larger end.
                        The young, hatched after three weeks' brooding, take to the water
                        as soon as their down is dry. In an unexpectedly short time they become
                        self-supporting, and, with the addition of their baby chatter to the
                        swelling volume of their elders', form a conspicuous feature of
                        marsh music. No doubt your boat has shot past 
                        
                            
                                THE HERALD OF DAWN
                            
                            
                                When the dawn's red glory tints the morning
                                    sky,!
                                First the watchful Herald utters his wild
                                    cry,
                                Then all marsh birds answer that resounding,
                                    "Kew!"
                                While each tells the other, "I
                                    awakened you!"
                            
                        
                         small bays and screened pools often, and as
                        the chatter of old and young commingled in the music of a coot party you
                        have said, "That scarcely sounds like ducks."
                    I have seen coots running throughout a season in this swampy corner of a
                        marsh, and it is as nearly typical of their location as any I know.The Indigo-Bird's
                            Nest The muck of such places is alive with worms, the grasses
                        with insects, and the surrounding vines and bushes bear seed. It seems that
                        birds of any habit might flourish there, and indeed I often have seen a
                        little red-eyed vireo so busy in these bushes that I am sure there was a
                        nest and family, and when I landed and worked my way into the marsh I scared
                        up a female Indigo finch, and soon found her nest in a thicket of blackberry
                        and wild grape.
                    Both were in bloom and growing so closely around the little cup with its four
                        delicate white eggs that the brooding bird could have sat on her nest and
                        snapped up flies and gnats attracted by the sweets of the flowers. The nest
                        was securely woven and placed in a perfect picture of loveliness, the eggs
                        appearing as pure and white as the berry blooms, but I doubt if the brood
                        came off safely. That location was the most unfortunate I ever knew an
                        Indigo finch to choose. As I stood beside the nest I seemed to see big black
                        water snakes, weasels, coons, foxes, and a whole flock of bird  enemies stealing up to destroy it. I did not
                        enter the thicket again, so its fate is unknown. But that a vireo and a
                        finch should be homing in such a place proves how universally birds as well
                        as flowers are distributed. Brilliant color attracts bird and insect
                        musicians not only to the water's edge, but over it to the depth of
                        the longest white water lily stem, which ranges from three feet to a
                        specimen I once pulled that was sixteen.
                    The five typical flowers growing in the water at the outer edge of all other
                        vegetation are the arrowhead lily, blue flag, yellow lily, water hyacinth,
                        white water lily, and differing members of their families.Water Flowers They are
                        all beautiful plants of fine leaf and exquisite bloom; and there are some
                        who will prefer one, and some another. My choice is the arrowhead, not only
                        of marsh flowers, but among any; it ranks well toward first with me.
                    I love a red flower in the fields; it appears so vital, so full of life, it
                        excites the imagination and warms the cockles of the heart; for red is
                        love's own color. A red flower or fruit or leaf appears to be a
                        consummation of something worth while; the fields have done a perfect work,
                        now I must busy myself and produce results to prove what I am attempting.
                        Any day my faith weakens, a bed of foxfire or cardinal flower waving
                        salutation can renew my courage and urge me on with fresh zeal; and if a
                        cardinal bird just then comes winging 
                        
                            
                                THE FINCH COLOR SCHEME
                            
                            
                                Gold was the grape bloom, green the spray,!
                                Nest and builder brownish gray,
                                Eggs and flowers pearly hue,
                                Master Musician indigo blue.
                            
                        
                         across my way, singing "Good cheer!
                        Good cheer!" I immediately feel so full of power that I dream I can
                        accomplish something worth doing.
                    Red is the love color, but white is the holy one; and above all other white
                        flowers the lily is emblematic of the holy of holies. Of all lilies not the
                        proud ascension nor the lowly lily of the valley is so serenely, pearly pure
                        as the arrowhead lifting its jewels above the mire of the marsh. If only I
                        were a poet and had the gift of rhyming, or measuring stately periods, I
                        know the story well enough. There are many things in nature that bring the
                        same thought to every heart. The compilers of the Bible knew that when they
                        epitomized the very Spirit of God in a dove and compared the Prince of Peace
                        with the white lily. Above all else, white, unspotted white, is the emblem
                        of truth, purity, and holiness; so this is the song a poet should sing.
                    The lordly ascension lily was set high in the fields as a perpetual reminder
                        to men that Christ gave His life, and ascended to heaven to intercede for
                        them with God the Father. The humble lily of the valley was placed low among
                        the grasses of untraveled ways that any wanderer there might see the emblem,
                        so precious that it was said of Jesus, "I am the lily of the
                        valley." Then to the muck and mire of the marsh the Almighty gave
                        the whitest and sweetest lily of all, that any lost and  sinking soul again might see with his latest vision the white
                        sign of holiness.
                    There is music all the day among the rushes rustling with each breeze, and
                        where they harp the purest note of God these white lilies grow. Their stems
                        and buds are round, and the leaves wonderful. They are a fine arrow-shape,
                        and some in this study were almost two feet in length, having a stout
                        midrib, grooved on the upper surface, with deep veins on the under. Both
                        bloom and leaf stems are round, and the bud is a perfect little globe, the
                        sign of the earth. The lilies open with three simple petals that spread
                        widely and curve with indescribable grace, so that light and shadow are
                        caught on the face of the same bloom. No other white flower I know has the
                        fineness of texture of the arrowhead petals; similar to pearls is the only
                        comparison. Then they have a heart of gold, for the anthers are yellow,
                        which adds richness to the petals.
                    Each stalk bears six clusters of bloom. The flowers are set on stems of
                        sufficient length to display their beauty fully without crowding. Three
                        blooms are placed at equal distances in a circle around the stem, and three
                        inches above another circle, each stalk terminating in a cluster of four
                        blooms: three around the stem, and one on the tip. The fragile, ethereal
                        whiteness of the bloom is further enhanced by the surroundings. The
                        background 
                        
                            
                                THE WHITE SIGN OF HOLINESS
                            
                            
                                The marshes were finished and gleaming!
                                With crimson and purple, yellow and blue;
                                Then to prove them the work of the Master
                                He stamped the White Sign on them too.
                            
                        
                         is almost invariably graceful flowers,
                        dark-green cattail leaves, and the golden-green, round, aspiring stems of
                        the bulrush. These are genuine pointers; they are the signboards of earth
                        directing man toward heaven. Water shallow enough to grow these lilies
                        always shows the black muck of its bed, and this further emphasizes their
                        appearance of purity. Worship is their due, and they receive it; for no
                        mortal with senses alive to beauty can see them without having the joy song
                        awakened in its most holy form in the heart.
                    Around them flit the sweet-lovers of the marsh with music-breeding wings, and
                        in pursuit, equally musical, the dragon fly. At their feet the water folk
                        are busy with the affairs of life, and among the lilies and between their
                        slender stems dart the chattering grebes.
                    These small musicians can be shrill of voice and active with their bills in
                        the fright of captivity; but at home in the marsh, filled with domestic
                        solicitude, they make their location charming with sweet, tender, low-voiced
                        cheepings and chatter as they dart around, caring for their young.The Grebe's
                            Lullaby Grebe babies will thrill any normal human heart with
                        tenderness. For a nest the mothers pull weeds from the marsh bed and stack
                        them on a bit of morass, a grassy tuft, or drift-covered brush. They cover
                        their eggs on leaving them, and when  the
                        little ones are hatched their down is scarcely dry before they take to the
                        water.
                    How cunning they are! Sitting like an auk, where you would expect a tail to
                        be, yet it is not; tiny yellow feet, not webbed like a duck's, but
                        the webbing in escallops on the outside of each flat toe; small, armlike
                        wings; a bill that is sharp for a water bird; round, bright-irised eyes;
                        plump, full breasts of finest snow-white velvet; backs striped much like
                        those of young quail, and the baby not larger than your
                            thumb.
                    On land they are the most helpless birds imaginable. They can not fly until
                        almost fullgrown, and their legs are so far back they are unable to lift the
                        weight of their bodies. They rise on their feet, launch themselves forward,
                        with the tips of their wings breaking the fall on their breasts, and thus,
                        like uncouth four-footed things, go sprawling until they reach the
                        water.
                    One can see their comic relief and the deep breath they draw as they reach
                        their native element.Expert
                            Swimmers What a transformation! The prince of swimmers is the
                        baby grebe. Like lightning play the tiny escalloped feet. It fairly seems to
                        glide over the surface, not infrequently distancing its elders. When tired
                        or ready to sleep these comical baby birds often climb upon the back of
                        their mother, making a picture delightful to see.
                    The diving of the grown grebe is so nearly 
                        
                            
                                THE LEAVES
                            
                            
                                "Ye lispers, whisperers, singers in storms,
                                Ye consciences murmuring faiths under forms,
                                Ye ministers meet for each passion that grieves,
                                Friendly, sisterly, sweetheart leaves,
                                As ye hang with your myriad palms upturned in the air,
                                Pray me a myriad prayer."Lanier.
                            
                        
                         without parallel that in many localities it
                        is called the helldiver, on account of striking so deep and remaining so
                        long that it is supposed to have ample time to reach the lower region and
                        return before again seeing the surface. A grebe does dive deep and long; but
                        do you understand the trick to which it resorts? Heading shoreward it comes
                        up among driftwood or rushes, lifting above water just enough of the small,
                        sharp bill to enable it to breathe, and with film-covered eyes and
                        waterproof coat comfortably awaits the passing of danger, while pursuers are
                        crediting it with wonderful ability in deep diving.
                    From babyhood the structural formation of the grebe remains unchanged.The Hell-Diver The
                        wing feathers are almost spineless, and appear more like fringe than quills.
                        Yet, being migratory, it must be able to make a strong flight. After
                        reaching a chosen location, however, and beginning housekeeping, it will not
                        take wing again until time to migrate. It will suffer itself to be picked up
                        and killed before resorting to flight. For this reason it is the easiest
                        prey imaginable for feather hunters.
                    A grebe very seldom leaves the water. When it does it propels the body with
                        feet and wings, just as in young days, sits erect like an auk, or lies
                        sunning in the same position taken in swimming. It is a rare thing to catch
                        a grebe attempting to bear the weight of its body on the feet. The attitude
                             assumed in so doing is distinctive, and
                        not at all like the position taken by a duck or goose in standing. The
                        breast is lifted so high there appears to be imminent danger of toppling
                        backward.
                    The color is some shade of brown over the back, and whether you know what it
                        is or not, you are familiar with the breast of the grebe.Grebe Millinery When you see a woman
                        with a band of white plumage tinted almost invisibly with blue and green,
                        and more strongly with golden brown, ornamenting her hat, know that from one
                        to six of these harmless, lovable, sweet-voiced birds were stripped from
                        chin to vent to supply it. When you see that other woman wearing a cape, the
                        collar of which reaches above her ears and the skirt to her elbows, and it
                        is made of almost indiscernible, delicately-colored sections the size of
                        your hand, know that each stands for the life of one of these charming marsh
                        chatterers.
                    The breast of the grebe is its curse. The feathers are so tiny and fine as to
                        render adequate description impossible. There are eight members of the
                        family having this exquisite plumage, that varies in rarity with the
                        different species. Crested grebes are killed without mercy for this small
                        patch of rare feathering, and their marsh cousins do not escape. There is no
                        bird slaughter for plumage more wanton, unless it be that practiced by the
                            
                        
                            
                                THE HELL-DIVER
                            
                            
                                "I am a Grebe, as any one easily can see,!
                                But I'm badly abused,
                                And my right name ain't used,
                                Because I'm such a deep-diver," says
                                    he.
                            
                        
                         egret hunters, who take the life of the
                        brooding bird for a few beautiful feathers found on the shoulders only at
                        nesting-time, and leave the young to slow death from starvation.
                    When plume-decked women chide you for taking a moderate amount of game in
                        season, tell them this egret story. Tell them, too, how the grebes are
                        caught by hand, because they will not fly; and how the skin of the throat is
                        cut with nippers and ripped to the vent of the living bird, which is then
                        left to die as it may in its chosen location among the grasses, rushes, and
                        blue flags of the marsh border.
                    Here is a cloying sweetness that insures an unusually strong insect chorus,
                        attracted first to the blue flags.The Blue Flag These flowers, borne singly upon
                        slender, upright stems, are of complicated arrangement in their hearts, so
                        they were given a far-reaching sweetness that many visitors might be lured
                        to them and thus accomplish their cross-fertilization. They have three
                        curving, graceful petals curling back, of many tinted purplish shades; three
                        upright pale-blue ones inside them, much smaller in size, and a complicated
                        arrangement of pistil and fringy anthers in their hearts, that touches the
                        bloom with gold. These anthers are designed especially to catch the pollen
                        of their kind, carried on the backs of bees, so that, even if the plants can
                        not reach each other, their species is perpetuated.  These complex parts in the hearts of flowers are their sex
                        organism, and the honey they distil is the bribe offered bees and
                        butterflies to consummate conception for them. Nature is very frank, and
                        these marvels are spread closely over her face for any one who cares to
                        learn. I think those who really understand and appreciate these delicate
                        processes among the flowers never again doubt that there is a Supreme Being.
                        The Creator said, "And a bow shall be set in the cloud; and I will
                        look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and
                        every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth." So He
                        evolved the rainbow. On the painted lily faces the botanists of early Greece
                        saw reproduced these wonderful colors, and so they named the plant
                            "Ipis,"the rainbow.
                    Because the sky is blue, eternal, and never-changing, men have adopted this
                        color to express friendship, which also should be eternal and
                            neverchanging.True
                            Blue True blue is dear to all hearts and conveys an express
                        meaning; so again these wonderful flowers are baptized with truth. And as if
                        no honor might be lacking, to the blue is added "flag."
                        Never was other flower more highly honored in its naming. Sometimes
                        beautiful plants and vines are insulted by scientists applying to them
                        careless, contradictory, and incongruous terms. Here is one embarrassed by
                        riches both in its scientific and 
                        
                            
                                THE BLUE FLAG
                            
                            
                                "The god that dwells among the reeds
                                Sang sweetly from their tangled bredes;
                                The soft-tongued water murmured low,
                                Swinging the flag-leaves to and fro."
                            
                            Thompson.
                        
                         common name. Think what his flag symbolizes
                        to a man! It means so much that for it he severs the dearest ties of earth,
                        leaves a home of comfort and faces untold hardships, exposes his body to
                        sickness, wounds, and many forms of death. For it he sacrifices everything
                        else on earth, yielding with smiling lips life itself.
                    So when the slender, exquisite leaves of the iris waved on the free winds of
                        the marsh with the abandon and grace of a flag, some one caught the
                        resemblance, and to the symbol of eternal truth was added that of liberty,
                        and the rainbow lily became the blue flag, the true flag.
                    It is not alone in complicated arrangement of parts to facilitate
                        cross-fertilization. Many marsh and swamp flowers have similar hearts, with
                        much sweetness as a lure, so that not only wild bees and insects but many
                        butterflies are constant visitors.
                    Although this study was made on a roadside flower, the black swallow-tail is
                        a true marsh butterfly and beautiful above all others.A Butterfly Aristocrat The wingsweep
                        is from three and a half to four inches, and this is one of the few
                        aristocrats of butterflydom, because it hears trailed wings. These wings are
                        black above, with lines of yellow spots running across them. They are
                        lemon-yellow below, with the row of spots showing through. The trailers are
                        black, touched with a stroke of strong yellow, and the upper sides of the
                        back pair of wings each  have a spot of blue.
                        In company with Troilus, Arehippus, and Ccenia, these handsomest of all
                        marsh butterflies flutter slowly from flower to flower, providing most
                        beautiful pictures where everything is a component part of one great,
                        brilliant panorama.
                    What a quantity of gold there is in a marsh when it even takes wing and flies
                        through the air! So many of the plants and flowers are yellow that in August
                        the color predominates all around the borders; yes, and even more.Pure Gold It lifts
                        above the water as well; for there is the yellow lily, the purest gold of
                        all, sturdily erecting its unalloyed head above the murky surface.
                    Its habitat is a short distance farther out than the arrowhead lily and the
                        blue flag. It requires more water. The white pond lily leaf and bloom rests
                        directly on the surface, the yellow raises its thick, woolly leaf and flower
                        stems above. The blooms have six cuppy, deeply overlapping petals of purest
                        gold at the tip, green at the base outside, and maroon of bright color
                        inside. In the smallest species the inside maroon is almost red. The stigma
                        is a deep yellow disk, very large; and as it ripens the stamens seem to peel
                        from it and grow dusty with pollen, while the flower unfolds.
                    On the first day of bloom the petals open so narrowly that any bee entering
                        must of necessity trail the pollen adhering to its fuzz, across the 
                        
                            
                                FLYING GOLD
                            
                            
                                "As poised on vibrant wings,
                                Where its sweet treasure swings
                                The honey-lover clings
                                To the red flowers"
                            
                            Cooke.
                        
                         stigma. When the bloom petals fall the disk
                        grows rapidly into a large head with the appearance of having a lid. This
                        pod is full of seed, that the Indians grind for one of their dainties at
                        wedding feasts. These balls of gold, before they are fully open, resemble
                        small fallen suns; and when we reflect that the sun stands for light and
                        warmth, by which we live, yellow becomes our most precious color. There is
                        not so much sound on the yellow lilies as on the white or blue, but there is
                        a world of busy musicians all around them.
                    A tea party of prima donnas would not reveal sweeter tones than the incessant
                        vocalizing of a flock of wild ducks.The Original Quack They make entrancing music. At
                        one moment come notes of glad content over motherhood, sunshine, and
                        feasting; then an endearing call as they gather small ones close to them;
                        then a warning lest a venturesome baby stray too far; then a word of
                        satisfaction over a very luscious worm, and too often the high alarm cry
                        when the water riffles with a big turtle or muskrat coming their way. When a
                        rival interferes with his love-making, a courting drake sends across the
                        marsh a hair-raising scream, quite unlike that of his domesticated
                        cousin.
                    The marsh music of wild geese is almost of the same character, differing from
                        the ducks only in tone and one tribal call. The "Honk!
                        Honk!" of the old gander that leads his wedge-shaped flock  in migration is a distinctive note, but it
                        gives small idea of the vocal power he displays when he marshals his
                        followers on the lakes and rivers of Canada.
                    "Couk, couk, couk!" The cry of the sheitpoke is composed of
                        enlivening notes, and rings with the delight of boundless freedom.The Cry of the
                            Sheitpoke Coming unexpectedly, it is, to say the least,
                        startling. The sheitpoke is of the heron family, and he is a bird that
                        deserves sympathetic admiration,he attends his own affairs so diligently and
                        appears so absorbed in them. He goes about his business in such a
                        "hammer and tongs" style that the heart warms to his
                        independence. Rolling his jolly call, he comes slashing and splashing
                        through muck and water, quite as frequently for mischief as in search of
                        foodthe veriest rowdy in the marsh. Soiled and dripping, he reaches a solid
                        footing with a look half apologetic, half defiant, exactly as if he were
                        saying. "Had a lot of fun doing that; but why in the world do you
                        suppose I did it?"
                    He is a warm-hearted, warm-headed, impulsive roustabout, yet at the first
                        suspicious note introduced into his paradise he can slink like a cuckoo. His
                        generous crest flattens until it appears pasted down; his oily, hairlike
                        plumage hugs his body, and his eyes snap and pop. A frightened sheitpoke
                        trying to decide in which direction to flee an unknown danger is an amusing
                        spectacle. He is 
                        
                            
                                THE MARSH ROWDY
                            
                            
                                "My heart was just completely broke!
                                When some one went and named me
                                    'Sheitpoke,'
                                So I'll roll my britches above my knees,
                                And romp through the marshes as I please."
                            
                        
                         not an extremely handsome bird. An old male
                        has a few beautiful iridescent feathers around the back of the neck and
                        across the shoulders, the throat is narrowly striped with cream; but the
                        general color is a dark, dull brown. He has smooth, scaled legs and feet of
                        greenish yellow, full bright eyes, and quite a lively coloring on his
                        elegantly shaped bill. He is a romping, mischievous, free, wild bird, and no
                        marsh choir would be complete without his clear, ringing notes.
                    If it be fair to laugh at anything that is young and helpless, then a baby
                        sheitpoke is almost, if not quite, the most laughable specimen in birdland.
                        A long, slender, yellow-tinted beak; long, slender neck; long, slender legs;
                        long, slender body; big, popping eyes; an insatiable appetite, and vocal
                        powers to proclaim it loudly around the marsh.
                    Of the same location as the yellow lily are the water hyacinths.Water Hyacinths Their
                        leaves lift above the surface, are near one-fourth the size of the yellow
                        lily, and lance-shaped. They are a crisp dark-green and stiffly upstanding.
                        The stems of the leaf and bloom are very similar to the yellow lily, except
                        that the blooms rise on an average of six or eight inches higher and are a
                        long head set with tiny bracts, in each of which blooms an exquisite little
                        blue flower. Blooming begins at the base and slowly climbs to the tip, the
                        lower flowers fading before the top are all open. The head is of pure  blue and forms a rare and graceful addition
                        to marsh flowers. I mean rare in the sense of rarely beautiful. The entire
                        plant is artistic. It attracts bees and insects for its music; the waves
                        come lipping around it, and birds that hunt food near are the feathered
                        giants of the marsh, the real operatic high C singersthe bittern, loon, and
                        blue heron.
                    When the bittern booms, when the loon cries, when the blue heron screams, you
                        hear the Calves and the Melbas of the marsh; but you must decide for
                        yourself to which belongs the palm.Marsh Prima Donnas The bittern and heron are of
                        the same family. The bittern is plumper of body, shorter of beak and leg,
                        with a handsome golden-brown back. A black line begins at each corner of the
                        mouth, passes under the eye, and gradually widens until it meets the
                        corresponding line at the back of the neck. The breast is of creamy white,
                        beautifully outlined in shaded stripes of golden brown. Excepting the white
                        heron, a bird of snow and surpassingly beautiful, the breast of the bittern
                        is the most exquisite piece of feather-marking in the entire heron family.
                        These birds nest on the ground, and their bony, long-billed babies are very
                        interesting.
                    Scientists are yet discussing whether the bittern really booms.When the Bittern Booms
                        Actual contact with the birds, instead of research in ancient authorities,
                        would settle many a similar vexing question. Surely the bittern booms. Go
                        live in the haunts of one long 
                        
                            
                                WATER HYACINTHS
                            
                            
                                As the faintest murmur, at the lilies feet,!
                                Break the rolling wavelets, in their rhythmic beat.
                                Heart-shaped leaves uplifted, heads of azure blue,
                                What the waters tell them,if I only knew!
                            
                        
                         enough to become sufficiently familiar to
                        photograph him, and by that time you will have learned for yourself. You
                        also will find that his boom does closely resemble the low, distant rumble
                        of an angry bull, and that, although partly nocturnal when breeding, and
                        frequently throughout the entire season, he sometimes booms during the day,
                        and is in evidence while bathing and fishing. We gravely are told by more
                        than one old-school ornithologist that he feeds only at night and booms only
                        during the breeding season, always under cover of darkness. If he could not
                        be heard frequently around the marsh during the summer, and pictured as he
                        feeds at almost any hour of the day, this might be given credence. In fact
                        hunters and fishers sometimes remark, "We must look out for a
                        bull," when it is the rumbling "Umm-umm-umm" of
                        the bittern they hear.
                    It is on account of this boom that in backwood localities he is called the
                            "thunder-pumper.The Thunder Pumper" The boom supplies the
                        "thunder." The "pumper" arises from the
                        fact that he is supposed to have an extra intestine running straight through
                        his anatomy; he thrusts his beak into a small puddle he wishes to explore
                        for worms, and with a "ca-chook! ca-chook!" pumps off the
                        water and feasts at his leisure. There are places where this belief is so
                        firm that it would be unwise to appear to think it amusing. The only method
                        by which to  convince any one of its untruth
                        would be to dissect a bird and find the peculiar membrane in his windpipe
                        that enables him to furnish this distinctive and most interesting marsh
                        music. No doubt the organ would somewhat resemble the same formation at the
                        base of the windpipe of a drake.
                    The bittern is a fine, dignified specimen. He likes to have his beak and feet
                        clean, and manifests his pride in his beautiful plumage by constantly
                        dressing and keeping it immaculate. Compared with his cousin, shielpoke, he
                        differs as the prince from the fishmonger. No slashing and splashing in
                        marsh muck and dirty water for him. He selects a clear, clean spot having a
                        slight current and, standing immovable, watches the bottom until he sees
                        signs of a worm; and then, with a quick, neat nip he has it. He is in every
                        way a self-respecting bird. He moves with fine poise and dignity, and in
                        flight he is strong and graceful. His vocalizing is almost as surprising as
                        that of the loon, but quite different.
                    The loon is a diver, and a relative of the grebe.The Laughter of the Loon As a rule
                        loons are of the lakes and marshes of the far North, where their cries are
                        considered dreadful by nervous people. In early spring, near nesting-time,
                        their vocalization is startling, especially in a first experience. The
                        morning call rolling across the water is not so unpleasant; some eminent
                        authorities confess a sneaking fondness for it, as 
                        
                            
                                WHERE THE LOAN LAUGHS
                            
                            
                                "T is only God man be had for the asking;!
                                There is no price set on the lauish summer
                                And June may be had by the poorest comer."
                            
                            Lowell.
                        
                         if it were a thing for which to apologize.
                        Perhaps they hesitate to admit it on account of the mournful evening and
                        night cry, which is a terror, resembling a rolling, melancholy, long-drawn
                        "Ha, ha! week! Ha, ha! week." Poets have written of the
                        laughing of the loon; but as this cry swells across the marsh, gathering
                        force as it travels, until it comes reverberating from the forests and hills
                        of the distance, it seems to awaken feelings similar to those roused by the
                        cries of a hungry panther. As loons occur only as straying migrants in my
                        country, I am not sufficiently acquainted with them to know what act
                        accompanies these cries, or why they are uttered. It is presumable that the
                        loon is having just as good a time as any other bird, and no doubt his crazy
                        laughter is uttered in calling a mate, in love-making, or to express the
                        pure enjoyment of his life.
                    After an experience with loon music it is almost a relief to hear the rasping
                        scream of a blue heron"Ker-awk! ker-awk!" The entire
                        family of cranes and herons are beautiful marsh birds. The blue heron is a
                        fine specimen, at times over forty inches in height, with an immense beak;
                        bright, steel-blue plumage, clearly marked with black, brown, and white;
                        high crest, flowing beard, eyes that snap as the bird vaguely realizes an
                        unseen danger, and feathers sparkling with mist and dew from the wet rushes
                        among which he feeds.
                    
                    A heron's voice is at its best when he calls his mate; but even then
                        those who all their lives have studied bird notes under stress of different
                        emotions have difficulty in deciding whether he says, "Come, my
                        love; this spot is propitious.The Battle-cry of the Heron Share a morning treat
                        with your dearest!" or, "Better keep away, old skin and
                        bones; there 's danger around this frog pond!" But what he
                        says when he defends his mate and young from intruders there is no trouble
                        in understanding, and he emphasizes it with beak, wings, and feet. That is
                        the hoarse, rasping battle-cry of the heron, and if you do not want to fight
                        you had better run.
                    Water carries sound so clearly and for such distances the woodpeckers and
                        flickers that choose marsh drums for their performances outdo their fellow
                        musicians of the land.The
                            Drum-Majors of the Marsh Every hollow, vine-covered tree stump of
                        the marsh is a big bassdrum, and on it these drummers perform all day with
                        never-ending vigor, while the breast of the water serves as their
                        sounding-board. When they have drummed until they are tired clinging to
                        their instruments, they lean back and cry, "Kerr, kerr,
                        kerr!" like the wailing notes of a fife, and then return to their
                        drumming.
                    To these performers of the day and partly of the night now are added other
                        musicians, wholly nocturnal. that have arrived from the forest. When dusk
                        creeps from the deep wood and incloses 
                        
                            
                                THE DRUM-MAJOR
                            
                            
                                He wears a modest uniform
                                Of gray, with black and white.
                                He plays the fife till short of breath,
                                Then drums with all his might.
                                And when he can not beat his drum
                                Another single note,
                                He fifes out, "Kerr, Kerr. Kerr,"
                                    again,
                                Till he almost splits his throat.
                            
                        
                         the marsh there is short time for pause
                        before the singers of darkness lift their voices.The Sere-naders The frogs begin with
                        renewed energy. Before the moon silvers the water and blackens the shadows
                        comes the whip-poor-will's cry. It is not unmusical, but it
                        comprises peculiar notes; they are enunciated so clearly, and with such
                        insistence, and mingled always with the mystery of the dark. Not mystery
                        because the moon looks on anything different from the sun, but because we
                        are in darkness; and when we hear and can not see, we dread.
                    Near the same time the night jar lifts his voice, and he is a veritable
                        screamer. What a cry he can utter! We shudder involuntarily. But what of the
                        mate he calls? Did you ever pause to think that to her perhaps the cry
                        means: "Awake! Come, sail with me through the forest and over the
                        marsh! Let us search for food and enjoy life!" Is there not more in
                        that to arouse sympathy than repulsion in the human heart?
                    The maestro of all night musicians is the great horned owl. The big hollow
                        sycamores and the impenetrable thickets around the marsh are his birthright.
                        His music echoes throughout the year and belongs to his location as the
                        white mantle of winter and the green of summer. It is not that his cry is
                        harsh or unmusical, but that coupled with 
                        darkness his notes are so startling. If a belated hunter was not acquainted
                        with the bird when the deep-toned "Who, huh, whoo, who,
                        waugh?" comes rolling out of the darkness, he well might wonder
                        whether his imperative questioner used the voice of bird, beast, or
                        devil.
                    It is the marsh that furnishes the croakings, the chatter, the quackings, the
                        thunder, the cries, and the screams of birdland.The Choral Union These notes may seem
                        disagreeable as they are described, but they are not so in realization. At
                        times we may think that we would be glad not to hear again the most
                        discordant of these musicians, but they are all dear in their places, and
                        were any one of them to become extinct, something of its charm would be
                        taken from the damp, dark, weird marsh life that calls us so strongly. We
                        have learned to know and understand them, and they have won our sympathy and
                        our love. We would miss the strident rasp, the flapping of wings, and the
                        vision of long-legged awkwardness as they rise from the rushes; for these
                        are prominent parts of the attractions we go to seek.
                    As the season advances the choir of the marsh is augmented, not only by the
                        natural increase of its true residents, but also by swarms of birds loving
                        the water, seeds, and insects afforded; and the moment they are free from
                        other duties they come flocking here with their young. In early August 
                        
                            
                                THE DRUM
                            
                            
                                On the hollow vine-girt tree!
                                Old red-head beats.
                                    "Tum-tum!"
                                Then to practice economy
                                He keeps house inside his drum.
                            
                        
                         the rushes are weighted with bobolinks, and
                        the air resounds with their sweet, liquid notes. A few days later the
                        straying killdeer and upland plover return, and the blackbirds and tanagers
                        sweep upon it in countless numbers. From then until fall migration marsh
                        life is at its fullest and best, and if from its babel of voices comes an
                        occasional rasping note, to counteract it there is an endless variety of
                        exquisite tones to the heart of the music-lover most dear.
                    To any man the call of the marsh is threefold.The Three fold Lure of the Marsh
                        Whether he realizes it or no, his faith in all renewal is strengthened in
                        watching this yearly resurrection. Dead as any death appears the marsh
                        during winter's long sleep; no other place so abundant with life in
                        summer. Most people dread the thought of annihilation. The marsh, that can
                        die and yet return to life at the first breath of spring, seems each year to
                        repeat anew to its lovers, "Though a man die, yet shall he live
                        again." All men are cheered by that message, whether it comes by
                        precept or impression.
                    There is a visual call from the marsh. Men travel across continents and pay
                        high prices to purchase the greatest reproductions of nature that have been
                        painted. The marsh is the most wonderful picture nature herself has to
                        offer. There is no sky to surpass these, for all skies drift over in answer
                        to changing moods. There are no clouds  so
                        real as these, that are reality. There is no background so perfect as giants
                        of the forest developing from the beginning; no middle distance so beautiful
                        as these plumes of wild rice sweeping the sky, these waving flags and
                        rushes, this riot of red and yellow, white and blue flower faces; no
                        foreground so rare as this mass of growing leaves and lily pads that shade
                        off into the black, unfathomable water. There is no still life to surpass in
                        grandeur the upheavals of nature in a tempest. There are no subjects more
                        picturesque than stilt-legged waders that stand motionless by the hour or
                        rise on wide wings and with trailing legs make nature's picture
                        complete by sailing slowly across it. And the breath of muck-ladened air,
                        touched with the resin of pines, heavy with the perfume of pollen, pungent
                        with the tang of mint,this is atmosphere for hunger of which the nostrils
                        may wither; but whose brush shall reproduce it?
                    Always there is the call of the music; the best in the wide world, the
                        spontaneous. day long, night long song of freedom and content. From a
                        million gauze-winged musicians, from the entire aquatic orchestra singing to
                        the accompaniment of the pattering rain, from the killdeer's call
                        trailing across the silver night. from the coot waking the red morning, from
                        the chattering blackbirds of golden noon, from the somber-robed performers
                        of 
                        
                            
                                WHERE MARSH AND FOREST MEET
                            
                            
                                Night was born in deep forest,!
                                In the heart of its secret place,
                                Slowly she creeps to the marshland,
                                And veils her glowing face.
                            
                        
                         the gray evening,comes the great call that
                        above all others lures men to return again, and yet again, to revel in it;
                        comes the sweetest note from the voice of the wild; comes the music of the
                        marsh.
                    
                    
                    
                
            
        
        
            
        
    
