
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. Tecumseh and the Shawnee Prophet. Famous American Indians: electronic
                    edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2446
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    TECUMSEH AND THE SHAWNEE PROPHET. 
                        FAMOUS AMERICAN INDIANS.
                
                BY EDWARD EGGLESTON AND LILLIE EGGLESTON
                    SEELYE.
                 INCLUDING SKETCHES OF GEORGE ROGERS CLARK, SIMON KENTON, WILLIAM HENRY
                    HARRISON, CORNSTALK, BLACK-HOOF, BLUEJACKET, THE SHAWNEE LOGAN, AND
                    OTHERS FAMOUS IN THE FRONTIER WARS OF TECUMSEH'S TIME.
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD & COMPANY 751 BROADWAY.
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT BY DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY, 1878.
            
            
            
                PREFACE.
                IN this work we have related for the benefit of the general
                    reader one of the most romantic passages in American history. We have especially
                    sought to interest young people in the history of the country through the
                    curiosity that everybody feels about aboriginal life and exciting adventure.
                It would defeat the purpose of the book to cumber it with foot-notes and
                    references to authorities. A large number of works, including many scarce and
                    out of the way books, have been consulted, but we have not often thought it
                    necessary to refer by name to an original authority, even when most closely
                    following his lead. A list of the chief works on the various branches of our
                    subject has been inserted at the close, for the benefit of those who may wish to
                    study the matter further.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    PREFACE
                        3
                    CHAPTER I. Tecumseh's Nation 13
                    CHAPTER II. The Childhood of Tecumseh 25
                    CHAPTER III. Wars of the Shawnees in Tecumseh's Childhood 34
                    CHAPTER IV. The Revolutionary War in the West—Colonel Clark's
                        Expeditions 41
                    CHAPTER V. Early Battles and Adventures of Tecumseh 52
                    
                    CHAPTER VI. Defeat of Harmer and St. Clair 59
                    CHAPTER VII. Skirmishes with the Whites—Tecumseh and Kenton 64
                    CHAPTER VIII. A Sketch of Simon Kenton 71
                    CHAPTER IX. Wayne's Victory over the Indians 83
                    CHAPTER X. The Peace at Greenville—Blue Jacket 91
                    CHAPTER XI. Death of Wawillaway—Tecumseh as a Peace-maker 96
                    CHAPTER XII. The Rise of the Prophet 105
                    CHAPTER XIII. The Band at Greenville—The Prophet in Council 118
                    
                    CHAPTER XIV. Tecumseh's Defiat Speeches 130
                    CHAPTER XV. General Harrison and the Prophet 135
                    CHAPTER XVI. Plans and Character of Tecumseh 151
                    CHAPTER XVII. Formation of Tecumseh's Confederacy 159
                    CHAPTER XVIII. Execution of Leatherlips for Witchcraft 170
                    CHAPTER XIX. Meeting of Harrison and Tecumseh at Vincennes 174
                    CHAPTER XX. The Last Council between Harrison and Tecumseh 193
                    CHAPTER XXI. Getting Ready for War 207
                    
                    CHAPTER XXII. The Battle of Tippecanoe 216
                    CHAPTER XXIII. Incidents of the Battle 224
                    CHAPTER XXIV. Tecumseh's Return 232
                    CHAPTER XXV. Hull's Surrender 240
                    CHAPTER XXVI. Sieges and Battles at the Western Forts 251
                    CHAPTER XXVII. Incidents of the War—Hand to Hand Encounter, and Death of
                        Logan 262
                    CHAPTER XXVIII. Destruction of the Mississinewa Villages—Battle and
                        Massacre on the River Raisin 267
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIX. The Siege of Fort Meigs 271
                    CHAPTER XXX. The Second Attack on Fort Meigs 283
                    CHAPTER XXXI. The Attack on Fort Stephenson 289
                    CHAPTER XXXII. Anecdotes of Tecumseh 296
                    CHAPTER XXXIII. Perry's Victory 301
                    CHAPTER XXXIV. Battle of the Thames—Death of Tecumseh 306
                    CHAPTER XXXV. After Tecumseh's Death 319
                    APPENDIX
                        329
                
            
        
        
            
            
                TECUMSEH AND THE SHAWNEE PROPHET.
                
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    TECUMSEH'S NATION.
                    SINCE the savages on this continent were known to
                        civilized men, the Indian race has produced on more splendid genius than
                        Tecumseh. He had courage and fortitude in common with most Indians, but to
                        these he added an imagination capable of seeking the largest results, a
                        practical wisdom that laid hold upon the readiest means of achieving his
                        ends, and an energy rarely equaled by any commander. To this we must add the
                        knowledge of human nature, the tact to command, the art to persuade, and the
                        skill to mold men as he desired. He sought to unite the Indians into one
                        vast confederacy or empire, and, putting himself at their head, to stay the
                        progress of the whites. He was defeated, but that defeat was the result of
                        the inherent superiority of civilization to savagery. Had his gifts been
                        exercised in a more opportune field, he would no doubt have proven himself
                        one of the great leaders of men. And even in his mistaken patriotism and
                        foregone defeat, he showed himself a shrewd diplomatist, a great commander,
                        a persuasive orator, a statesman, and a man of indomitable patience,
                        brilliant courage, and wonderful  power of
                        gaining and holding the allegiance of his followers.
                    He came of one of the most energetic and war-like of the Indian tribes. The
                        Shawnees have always been a restless, people, more adventurous than any
                        other Indians. They belong to that family of Indian nations known as the
                        Algonquin. This family was the most numerous of all the Indian races, and
                        spoke a language not very different in the different tribes. The tribes
                        which the whites first encountered in Virginia and in Massachusetts spoke
                        dialects of this Algonquin speech. To this stock belong the Six Nations of
                        Canada, the Chippewas or Ojibbeways of Wisconsin and Minnesota, celebrated
                        in Longfellow's Hiawatha, the Crees of British America, the
                        Mohegans, the Delawares, the Kickapoos, the Illinois, the Ottawas, the Sacs
                        and Foxes, and many other tribes well known in the history of the settlement
                        of the country. The Algonquin people are supposed to have constituted half
                        the population east of the Mississippi at the time of the settlement of the
                        country, and to have numbered not less than ninety thousand.
                    The language of the Algonquin Indians is very complex, and to the
                            ears of those who speak languages like our own it
                        seems to be a very strange speech. Words are joined to words, and still
                        other  words are added to express various
                        meanings, as to time, place, person acting, person acted upon, and so forth.
                        One of the most curious things in the Algonquin languages is that the words
                        take on various forms, not with reference to male and female, but with
                        reference to a division of things into superior and inferior. In some of the
                        dialects, all, or nearly all, animate beings are superior, while inanimate
                        objects are put into another gender, so to speak. But in one, at least, of
                        the Algonquin tongues, the division is more remarkable—God, the spirits or
                        angels, and men, are accounted sup; women and all lower creatures are another
                        "gender."
                    The Algonquin is very stately and suited to oratory, but not well suited to
                        light and familiar speech. It has many delicate and rhetorical turns. When a
                        Chippewa wishes to say that a man is dead, he merely remarks that
                        "they have put the sand upon him." When the name of a dead
                        person is spoken they affix to it the termination of the past tense to
                        indicate that he is not living. Tecumseh after his death becomes
                            "Tecumseh-c-bun." Much as though we
                        should write, "Has-been Washington," to imply that the
                        Washington of whom we speak was no longer alive.
                    The history of the Shawnees, even after the settlement of America, is wrapped
                        in obscurity. They  moved about so incessantly,
                        and were so often divided in their migrations, that we are unable to track
                        the various divisions. Some are of the opinion that the Eries, who are said
                        to have been destroyed by the Iroquois in very carly
                        times, were none others than the Shawnees before their wanderings began.
                        Certain it is that when we first hear of them in early documents, they seem
                        to be divided, wandering, and of uncertain habitation. We hear of a war
                        which was being waged against them by the Iroquois at the time of Captain
                        John Smith's arrival in America in 1607. They were at that time
                        located to the west of the Susquehanna, and on its banks. De Laet mentions
                        them as on the Delaware in 1632. They are also said to have been located at
                        the South, and to have come from near Lake Erie. We can only reconcile these
                        conflicting accounts by supposing them to have already divided into several
                        bands, some of which were in motion, for other authorities place their seat,
                        in the latter part of the seventeenth century, in the basin of the
                        Cumberland River in Kentucky. Later they are found on the Wabash, where
                        Tecumseh long afterward made a new settlement, and in 1708 they are spoken
                        of as removing from the Mississippi to South Carolina. The Swanee or Suwanee
                        River, in Florida, derives its name from a party of Shawnees who had come
                        from north of the Ohio. Yet another  authority
                        speaks of a tribe of Shawnees that had been wandering for four years in the
                        wilderness, and who were then returning to the country of the Creeks. From
                        all of which we gather that the Shawnees were in the earliest times what
                        they proved to be later—a people of restless energy, without fixed unity
                        or local habitation, very energetic and war-like, breaking into small bands
                        and reuniting again. Colden, in 1745, said that "the Shawnees were
                        the most restless of all the Indians," and that "one tribe
                        had quite gone down to New Spain," or Florida.
                    One thing that impresses us is the uselessness of tradition among savages.
                        The historic sense is not developed in uneducated people, and fact soon gets
                        strangely mixed with fiction in all annals of races not yet civilized. Some
                        authors have quoted from speeches of the Shawnees to show what their
                        traditions of the creation are, but an Indian orator gets up his account of
                        the creation for the purpose of carrying his point at the moment, and his
                        story is no doubt quite as fresh to those of his own tribe who may be
                        present as to any others.
                    It is inferred that the Shawnees were present at that first beneficent treaty
                        of peace and friendship negotiated by William Penn in 1682. But there is no
                        assurance of this fact, for to Penn and his associates but just arrived, all
                        Indians were simply Indians,  and the treaty
                        makes no mention of their nation or names. It is quite probable that the
                        Indian languages were at that early day so imperfectly understood that the
                        treaty itself was apprehended by the savages more in its peaceful import
                        than in its details. The presence of the Shawnees is inferred from the fact
                        that in Penn's later council with the Indians in 1701, we find
                        Wapatha, a chief of the Shawnees, expressly mentioned as representing his
                        people; and in 1722, in conference with the whites, the Shawnees are said to
                        have exhibited a copy of the first treaty, though the two treaties of Penn
                        may have been confounded. About 1698, nearly seventy families of Shawnees,
                        with the consent of the government of Pennsylvania, removed from Carolina
                        and settled on the Susquehanna. They perhaps found remaining there that
                        portion of their tribe which was contending with the Iroquois in the time of
                        John Smith, unless the Iroquois succeeded in quite driving them out. And
                        these from Carolina may have been some who had been expelled in the wars in
                        which they were almost always engaged, returning again to an old home.
                    In the year 1706, Thomas Chalkley, a minister of the Society of Friends,
                        found Shawnees and Senecas living at Conestoga, near the Susquehanna. He
                        relates that one of the tribes had a woman among  the chiefs. "On informing them of our views in this visit to
                        them," he says, in his quaint Quaker way, "they called a
                        council, in which they were grave, and spoke one after another, without any
                        heat or jarring." Observing that there was a woman present who took
                        part in all deliberations, the missionary inquired of the interpreter how it
                        came that a woman was admitted to council. He answered that some women were
                        wiser than some men—a proposition not difficult even for white people to
                        accept. This "ancient, grave woman" spoke much in council
                        and gave her influence heartily in favor of the missionaries, so that good
                        Thomas Chalkley adds that "the poor Indians, and in particular some
                        of the young men and women, were under a solid exercise and concern of
                        mind."
                    As early as 1684 there were Shawnees in the West, allied with the Miamis, and
                        yet we afterward hear of Southern Shawnees expelled from Georgia emigrating
                        to the West, and building a village at the mouth of the Wabash. They applied
                        to the Delawares, who gave them territory in the valley of the Wyoming,
                        whither part of them removed. In 1742, the famous Count Zinzendorf, the
                        leader of the Moravians, had a very curious adventure with these Indians. He
                        went to Wyoming determined to try to introduce Christianity among them. He
                        was not  well received; the Indians suspected
                        him of seeking their lands, and some of them determined to assassinate him
                        privately. He sat in his tent at night, with a small fire to keep him warm.
                        The heat of the fire had warmed into activity a rattlesnake, that stretched
                        itself across his leg the better to feel the fire, but the pious Count was
                        too deeply engaged in meditation to observe the reptile. The Indians raised
                        the blanket which served as door to his tent, but seeing the venerable
                        missionary sitting wrapped in devout reflections and peacefully unconscious
                        of the presence of the snake, they were seized with superstitious terror.
                        They hurriedly returned to their village and told their associates that the
                        old man was under the special protection of the Great Spirit, for they had
                        found him with only a blanket for a door, and had seen a large rattlesnake
                        crawl over him without doing him any harm.
                    When the war between England and France broke out in 1754 it involved the
                        English colonies in America in a struggle with the French in Canada and the
                        West, and the Shawnees on the Ohio took part with the French. But those
                        residing in Pennsylvania rejected all solicitations to join them; the
                        influence of Penn's treaties and Count Zinzendorf's
                        missionary labors had rendered them friendly towards the whites.
                    
                    About this time occurred the curious "grasshopper quarrel,"
                        which, beginning in a contest between children, ended in the expulsion of
                        the Shawnees from the Wyoming Valley. There seems to have grown up a gradual
                        estrangement between the Delawares and Shawnees, which was fanned to a flame
                        by a most trivial circumstance. The women of the two tribes were gathering
                        berries by the riverside, when some of the Shawnee children fell into a
                        wrangle with the Delaware children over the possession of a grasshopper. The
                        mothers took sides with their children, the Delaware women maintaining that,
                        though a Shawnee child had caught the grasshopper, it was caught on the side
                        of the river belonging to the Delawares, hence the Delaware children were
                        entitled to it. From such arguments they came to blows; upon which the
                        Shawnee women were speedily driven to their canoes by the superior numbers
                        of their angry assailants. On their return, the Shawnee hunters, influenced
                        by the angry complaints of the squaws, prepared to avenge the insult, but
                        found the Delawares ready to meet them. The battle began while the Shawnees
                        were crossing the river, and lasted afterward until many of the Delawares
                        and full half of the Shawnees were killed. Soon after this the latter
                        abandoned the Wyoming and settled with those Shawnee tribes that had
                        remained in the valley of  the Ohio. It was
                        here, in their villages on the Miami, the Scioto, and the Mad River, that
                        they became involved in the savage conflict that raged so long between the
                        Indians and the white settlers, in which border warfare Tecumseh was
                        cradled, educated, and spent his life.
                    The Shawnees were at one time divided into twelve bands or tribes, but the
                        number gradually declined to four. Besides these bands there is another
                        division, running through all the Algonquin tribes, into what are called
                        "totems," the word being a corruption of
                        "dodaim," a family mark. Each totem has some name, usually
                        of an animal; and it is said that no man could marry a person of his own
                        totem.
                    The present remnant of the once powerful Shawnees is very small, many of them
                        having become absorbed by intermarriage with the whites no doubt. Others may
                        have mixed with the Indian tribes, but the strength of this once powerful
                        people has been wasted in the almost ceaseless wars in which they have been
                        engaged, against the whites and against other Indian nations. They have ever
                        been eager to take the sword, and they have perished by the sword. The
                        Shawnees were accustomed to boast of their superiority to the other tribes,
                        and their haughty pride has had much to do with their conflicts and their
                        destruction.
                    
                    "The Master of Life," said one of their chiefs in 1803,
                        "was himself an Indian. He made the Shawnees before any other of
                        the human race. They sprang from his brain. He gave them all the knowledge
                        he himself possessed, and placed them upon the great island (America), and
                        all the other red people descended from the Shawnees. After he had made the
                        Shawnees he made the French and English out of his breast, the Dutch out of
                        his feet, and the Long Knives (Americans) out of his hands. All these
                        inferior races of men he made white, and placed them beyond the stinking
                        lake (the Atlantic Ocean)."
                    This arrogant pride and war-like ferocity made the Shawnees one of the most
                        formidable of all the tribes with which the white settlers had to contend in
                        the Ohio Valley. They slew old and young, male and female, without pity and
                        without remorse. They rejoiced in battle and carnage, in deception,
                        stratagem, and faithlessness. But in judging them we must not forget that
                        they were savage. Their whole education made them what they were; and in too
                        many instances the white men, in the bitter struggles of "the dark
                        and bloody ground," easily forgot their civilization, and fell into
                        the cruelty, bad faith, and revengefulness of savages.
                    Tecumseh had the pride, the energy, and the fortitude of his race. In
                        intellect and humanity he was  superior to
                        them, but all their fierce antipathies were in him. He confessed that he
                        could not see a white man without feeling the flesh of his face creep. He
                        was a savage, patriotically believing in savage life, but he was none the
                        less one of the very ablest men that savage life has produced.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    THE CHILDHOOD OF TECUMSEH.
                    THERE are always curious contradictions in the accounts of
                        an event that reach us only through the traditions of Indians and frontier
                        men. Tecumseh was born, according to some accounts, in
                        1763, and according to others, in 1771, some say near Chillicothe, though
                        Tecumseh is reported to have said that his birth occurred near the old
                        Indian village of Piqua. There is a story that he and his brother, the
                            Prophet, were twins, and even that a third brother
                        was born at the same time; though according to one account the Prophet and a
                        twin brother were some years younger than Tecumseh. It
                        seems more likely that the earlier date—1768—was that
                        of Tecumseh's, and the later—1771—the date
                        of the Prophet's birth, who was perhaps a twin.
                        There can be little doubt that Tecumseh was born at the
                        old Indian village of Piqua, or Pickaway, on the Mad River, near the
                        Miami.
                    There is likewise a great contradictoriness in the accounts given of the
                        family history. It would be easy to believe, from Tecumseh's
                        superior mind, that  there was white blood in
                        his family. There is, however, pretty good evidence that the family was of
                        pure Shawnee extraction. The assertions of some, that he had both
                        Anglo-Saxon and Creek blood in his veins, seem to be entirely founded on a
                        boast of Lauliwasikau, the Prophet, who excelled more in bragging than he
                        did in battle, and who was more voluble than truthful. The story is
                        interesting to us as a small novel of the Prophet's own invention,
                        rather than for any probable historical basis.
                    His paternal grandfather, according to this incredible tale, was a Creek
                        Indian, who, with other Indians, went to one of the Southern cities, either
                        Savannah or Charleston, to hold a council with the English governor. The
                        governor's daughter was present at some of her father's
                        interviews with the Indians. She had previously conceived a violent
                        admiration for the Indian character, of which she took this opportunity to
                        inform the governor. This most obliging of fathers inquired of the Indians
                        in council, next morning, which of them was the most expert hunter.
                            Tecumseh's grandfather, then a handsome
                        young man, sitting modestly in a retired part of the room, was pointed out
                        to him. The governor, on finding that his daughter was really desirous of
                        marrying an Indian, directed her attention, in council the following day, to
                        this young Creek warrior,  and she promptly
                        fell in love with him. The chiefs were informed of the young lady's
                        attachment. It seemed to them incredible, at first, but finding that the
                        governor was in earnest, they advised the young Creek to
                        accept this piece of fortune, to which he seems to have made no objection.
                        He was immediately taken to another apartment, where a train of black
                        servants disrobed him of his Indian costume, washed him, and presented him
                        with a new suit of European clothes, after which the marriage ceremony was
                        performed. It is customary with the Indians to bathe a man on adopting him
                        among them, and this may be what suggested the soap and water part of the
                        story to the Prophet's mind, though one cannot but think it
                        possible that he appreciated the necessity for washing an Indian before
                        presenting him to a lady.
                    The young warrior did not return home with the other Indians at the close of
                        the council, but remained with his romantic wife. He amused himself with
                        hunting, in which he was very successful, usually taking two black servants
                        with him to bring back his large quantities of game. The Prophet's
                        father, Puckeshinwau, was a son of this marriage, and at his birth the
                        governor made great rejoicing, causing thirty guns to be fired. This boy,
                        who was permitted to visit the Indians, was given by them his name,  which means "something that
                        drops." He afterwards preferred to desert the governor's
                        house for a life among the Indians. This is the Prophet's tale; but
                        an account which is more credible state that
                            Tecumseh's father, Puckeshinwau, was a full
                        Indian belonging to the Kiscopoke, while his mother was of the Turtle tribe
                        of the Shawnee nation. His mother's name was Methoataske, and means
                        "a turtle laying eggs in the sand."
                    The parents of Tecumseh removed with others of their
                        tribe, under the lead of the great chief Black-hoof, from the South to the
                        valley of the Ohio, about the middle of the eighteenth century. They
                        established themselves at first on the Scioto and afterwards on the banks of
                        the Mad River, one of the tributaries of the Great Miami. Puckeshinwau was
                        not a chief by birth, but he rose to that rank, and was killed in the battle
                        of Kanawha in 1774. After her husband's death, Methoataske, who is
                        spoken of as a respectable woman, returned to the South, where she lived to
                        an advanced age among the Cherokee Indians.
                    Though the Prophet is known by several names, Tecumseh never had but the one,
                        which means "a shooting star." The influences surrounding
                            Tecumseh in babyhood and boyhood must have tended to
                        make him what he was in after life. The life of an Indian child is
                        pre-eminently one of hardship. 
                        
                         We can imagine him as a baby bound hand and
                        foot, and strapped to a board and carried like a piece of baggage on his
                        mother's back for the first six months. Then he must endure the
                        long periods of famine which come from the vicissitudes and improvidence of
                        an Indian hunter's life. Like other Indian boys who take to the
                        water from the time they are babies, Tecumseh, no doubt, enjoyed swimming in
                        the Mad and Miami Rivers during the warm summer days. His first toy was
                        probably a bow and arrow, and he learned to hunt as naturally as to
                        swim.
                    There were seven children in this remarkable Indian family, five of whom were
                        people of more or less distinction. Tecumseh's eldest brother.
                            Checseekau, is said to have taken great pains in the
                        education of the fatherless boy. This is rather remarkable, if it be true,
                        for there is usually little that can be called direct education among the
                        Indians. We must remember that the only honorable occupations for an Indian
                        man are hunting and warfare; all else is work for squaws. Of course,
                            Tecumseh's education was mainly in the arts
                        of the soldier and the hunter, but Cheeseekau is said not
                        only to have labored to make Tecumseh a great warrior,
                        but also to have taught him a love for truth, a contempt for everything mean
                        and sordid, and the practice of those cardinal Indian virtues, courage in
                        battle and fortitude  in suffering. If
                            Checseckau attempted the education of his other
                        brother, the Prophet, in any of these particulars, he must have failed
                        signally, for he possessed neither truth nor courage.
                    "From his boyhood Tecumseh seems to have had a passion for war. His
                        pastimes, like those of Napoleon, were generally in the sham battlefield. He
                        was the leader of his companions in all their sports, and was accustomed to
                        divide them into parties, one of which he always headed, for the purpose of
                        fighting mimic battles, in which he usually distinguished himself by his
                        activity, strength, and skill. His dexterity in the use of the bow and arrow
                        exceeded that of all the other Indian boys of his tribe, by whom he was
                        loved and respected, and over whom he exercised unbounded influence. He was
                        generally surrounded by a set of companions who were ready to stand or fall
                        by his side." Such are the stories told of Tecumseh's
                        boyhood by some who knew him. It seems very likely that he displayed in his
                        youth that skill in hunting and war, and above all the great powers of
                        leadership, which marked him so strongly in after life.
                    That Tecumseh was capable of strong affection is shown by his regard for his
                        only sister, Menewaula-koosee, or Tecumapease, the name
                        by which she is better known, and which was doubtless given to her  later in life, according to Indian usage, to
                            signify her relationship to the great Tecumseh. She
                        was "sensible, kind hearted, and uniformly exemplary in her
                        conduct," and must have been a person of commanding character, for
                        she is said to have exercised a remarkable influence over the females of her
                        tribe. She was married to a brave called Wasegoboah, or Stand Firm.
                        Tecumapease was a great favorite with her brother
                            Tecumseh up to the time of his death. He is said to
                        have treated her always with respect, making her many valuable presents.
                    In considering the influences which surrounded the boyhood of
                            Tecumseh, we must not forget the stories told around
                        the Indian camp-fires of the daily events of the time; and it will be
                        necessary to recall here what these events were. When he was very young the
                        war of the American Revolution began. Living in the Far West of those days,
                        he was not so entirely removed from the Revolutionary War
                        as not to feel some influence from it. Great Britain, remote from her
                        rebellious colonies, was engaged in war with France at the same time. She
                        carried on the war on this continent at great disadvantage, and it was the
                        policy of the mother country to use the savages to harass the Americans.
                    That Tecumseh listened well to all he heard of current events is shown in his
                        after life, when he evinced  a considerable
                        knowledge of the past differences between the United States and England.
                    The news which came to the hearing of the boy Tecumseh, as
                        fresh as that which comes to us in our newspapers to-day, consisted of
                        accounts of perpetual skirmishings, scalpings, and
                        fightings. The successive and exciting events of border warfare, in which
                        the Indians were very successful during Tecumseh's early childhood,
                        entered into his education. His patriotic feelings were all enlisted on the
                        side of the Indians, who were opposing themselves to the ever-increasing
                        stream of immigration which poured over the Alleghanies during the last
                        twenty-five years of the eighteenth century, and which became a flood during
                        the first decade of the nineteenth.
                    Tecumseh was not more than six years old when his father was killed, and his
                        family were several times sufferers from the war between the whites and
                        Indians. During all his childhood this fierce border war was waging. Between
                        1783 and 1790, it was estimated that fifteen hundred men, women and children
                        were slain or taken captive by the Indians upon the waters of the Ohio. The
                        loss was also undoubtedly great on the Indian side, and the whites were
                        often ready to learn from the Indians lessons of inhuman cruelty and
                        torture.
                    Tecumseh's childhood was thus rocked in the  cradle of the Indian wars of the Revolutionary period, and by
                        all the strength of early impressions and training he learned to love war,
                        to regard the English as allies, to hate the Americans, and to oppose
                        himself to the tide of immigration west of the Alleghanies.
                    Doubtless the boy Tecumseh, sitting by the camp-fire and
                        listening to the stories of this savage war and to reminiscences of the
                        "good old times" when the whites had not come among them
                        with guns and strong drink and the superfluous wants of civilization, laid
                        in his boyish mind the foundation for his great plan, in the strong
                        conviction that the whites had no right to leave the home on the sea-shore,
                        which the Indians had allowed them, and to encroach still further upon the
                        wilderness. He seems to have stored up carefully all that he heard of broken
                        treaties and injuries inflicted on the Indians by their neighbors. He
                        certainly was well versed in all facts of this kind, though he naturally did
                        not take the same pains to remember also the instances of perfidy on his own
                        side.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    WARS OF THE SHAWNEES IN TECUMSEH'S
                        CHILDHOOD.
                    ABOUT the time of Tecumseh's
                        birth (1768), the Shawnee and Delaware nations concluded a peace with the
                        Cherokees, a Southern nation of Indians, and remained at peace with both
                        whites and Indians until 1774. The cause of disturbance which sent them on
                        the war-path with the whites in this year was the murder of Indians by
                        lawless white men in retaliation for the stealing of horses, without regard
                        to whether the Indians killed were the offenders or not. The settlers along
                        the frontier, feeling sure that the Indians would avenge the death of their
                        friends, prepared for defence, and sent an express to the Assembly of the
                        colony of Virginia, then in session, asking for assistance. Hostilities were
                        begun by the celebrated Mingo chief, Logan, whose pathetic speech is
                        familiar to every school-boy. He had always been friendly to the whites,
                        but, Indian-like, now destroyed several settlers' families
                        indiscriminately in retaliation for the murder of his own relatives. The
                        Earl of Dunmore, at that time governor of Virginia,  raised several regiments west of the Blue Ridge, which he
                        placed under the command of General Andrew Lewis, with instructions to
                        proceed to the mouth of the Great Kanawha River, where he was to be joined
                        by Lord Dunmore at the head of forces raised in the interior. The Indians,
                        consisting of Shawnees, Delawares, Mingos, and Iowas, were under the command
                        of Cornstalk, a renowned Shawnee chief. General Lewis, after a march of
                        nineteen days through one hundred and sixty-five miles of wilderness,
                        reached the mouth of the Kanawha. Here he waited several days expecting the
                        arrival of Dunmore. He at length dispatched scouts overland to Pittsburg to
                        see if anything could be heard of the governor. Before the scouts returned,
                        an express arrived from Lord Dunmore, informing Lewis that he had changed
                        his plan and intended to march directly against the Indian towns on the
                            Scioto. General Lewis, though not altogether pleased
                        with this change of plan, was preparing, early the next morning, to obey the
                        orders of the governor, when he learned that a large body of Indians, which
                        "covered four acres of ground," was close at hand. When
                        Lewis, who was a man of remarkable coolness, received this intelligence, he
                        lighted his pipe and ordered out two detachments to meet the enemy, one to
                        march to the right, some distance from  the
                        Ohio, and the other to proceed along its bank. About a mile from camp they
                        met the Indians under Cornstalk, by whom the two detachments were almost
                        simultaneously attacked, it being now about sunrise.
                    The commanders of both these detachments being in full uniform were soon
                        severely wounded, one of them mortally. The troops having been reinforced
                        from the reserve, the battle was waged stubbornly all day long, and it is
                        ranked among "the most memorable and well contested that has been
                        fought on this continent." The underbrush, ravines, and fallen
                        trees were favorable to the Indians. They succeeded in carrying away their
                        wounded and throwing most of their dead into the Ohio, according to their
                        universal practice of concealing their slain in battle, whenever
                        possible.
                    There were many celebrated chiefs present at this battle, among whom were
                        Logan, Red Eagle, Elenipsico, and Cornstalk, who is styled "chief
                        sachem of the Shawnees and leader of the northern confederacy." It
                        is said that this chief, who was generally friendly to the whites, had
                        opposed this attack on General Lewis, but had been overruled. In battle he
                        fought with great bravery, being the loudest-voiced and most conspicuous in
                        encouraging the Indians. When their lines began to waver he was  among them in a moment, crying, "Be
                        strong!" Be strong!" He buried his tomahawk in the head of
                        one of his retreating warriors, and, shaming the rest, completely rallied
                        his forces.
                    It was during this day's battle that
                            Tecumseh's father, the chief Puckeshinwau,
                        was killed. His eldest son, Cheeseekau, fought at his side. Toward the
                        latter part of the day, the Indian forces, having been attacked in the rear
                        by the Virginians, began a slow and orderly retreat, conducted by Cornstalk,
                        the Indians advancing and falling back alternately, and fighting stubbornly
                        all the way. At length as night came on the savages disappeared in the
                        darkness. After the battle they recrossed the Ohio and marched to the valley
                        of the Scioto. Here a council of war was held to
                        determine future movements. Cornstalk rose in council and made this speech:
                        "What shall we do now? The Long Knives (a name by which the Indians
                        called the whites because of their swords) are coming upon us by two routes.
                        Shall we turn out and fight them?" Here he made an impressive
                        pause, and no one answering he proceeded: "Shall we kill all our
                        women and children and then fight until we are killed ourselves?"
                        All were silent. Then Cornstalk, striking his tomahawk into the war-post
                        standing in the midst of the council, said with great vehemence:
                        "Since you are not inclined to  fight,
                        I will go and make peace." And peace was made.
                    Governor Dunmore had marched to within a few miles of the camp, where he was
                        met by messengers from the Indians suing for peace. He sent an express to
                        General Lewis, who had crossed the Ohio and was marching for the Shawnee
                        towns on the Scioto, ordering him to retreat across the
                        river. The general and his forces were so anxious to continue the campaign
                        and avenge the blood of their companions, that they disregarded the
                        governor's order and continued their march until Lord Dunmore met
                        them in person and repeated his command emphatically.
                    Cornstalk was one of those able Indians of whom the Shawnees had more than
                        their proportion. He was the earnest friend of the Moravian missions among
                        the Indians, and always encouraged any effort which tended toward the moral
                        and physical betterment of his people. He was also spoken of very highly as
                        an orator. When the treaty was concluded between the Indians and Dunmore,
                        Cornstalk made a speech which showed his patriotism and sense of justice. He
                        described the wrongs his people had suffered from the colonists, and
                        contrasted the condition of his nation before their intercourse with the
                        whites, with their degraded and miserable state at that time.  He spoke boldly of the dishonesty of the
                        traders, and proposed that no commerce with the Indians should be carried on
                        for individual profit, but that honest men should be sent among them who
                        would trade for such things as they needed at a fair price; and, above all,
                        that no "fire-water" of any kind should be allowed to come
                        among them.
                    This treaty with Governor Dunmore did not bring a lasting peace. New
                        difficulties were ever arising. Cornstalk's friendship for the
                        whites, and his desire to avoid the disastrous effects of a war on his own
                        people, led him to his death. In 1777, two years after the beginning of the
                        Revolutionary War, an offensive alliance was formed among the Indians
                        against Western Virginia. Cornstalk opposed this with all his influence, but
                        in vain. He determined to give warning to the whites, in hope of thus
                        preventing the war he so much dreaded for his people. He went secretly to
                        the fort at Point Pleasant, accompanied by Red Hawk, who was also friendly
                        to the whites, and another Indian. After fully explaining all to the
                        commander, he frankly said, in speaking of the state of feeling among the
                        Shawnees: "The current sets so strongly against the Americans, in
                        consequence of the agency of the British, that they will float with it, I
                        fear, in spite of all my exertions."
                    The commander, Captain Arbuckle, in violation 
                        of all good faith, detained the chiefs as hostages. While
                        they were there the officers in the fort held many conversations with
                        Cornstalk, and were much surprised at his intelligence.
                        He seemed to take pleasure in giving them descriptions of his country. One
                        day as he was drawing a rude map on the floor by way of illustration, a call
                        was heard from the opposite shore, which he knew to be the voice of his
                        favorite son Elenipsico, a fine young Indian, who was prominent in the
                        battle at Kanawha. Elenipsico, at his father's request, crossed the
                        river and joined him at the fort, where they greeted each other very
                        affectionately. Soon after two men belonging to the fort went out hunting,
                        and one of them having been killed by some Indians, the regiment to which he
                        belonged rushed madly in to kill the captives at the fort in revenge,
                        believing Eleuipsico to have brought with him the Indians who killed their
                        friend. Cornstalk and his companions were warned by the
                        interpreter's wife, who had been a captive among the Indians and
                        felt an affection for them. Elenipsico denied having anything to do with it,
                        and seemed much agitated, but his father encouraged him, saying,
                        "If the Great Spirit has sent you here to be killed, you ought to
                        die like a man." Which they both did, being cruelly slain by the
                        enraged soldiers.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR IN THE WEST—COLONEL
                        CLARK'S EXPEDITIONS.
                    THE expedition of Colonel Clark against the British posts
                        in the West illustrates so well the general character of the West at that
                        time, and the Western methods of warfare, and is withal a story so full of
                        interest, that we give it briefly here. It has also certain relations to the
                        life of Tecumseh, in so far as it shows the early
                        conflict between the United States and Great Britain on this ground.
                    During the Revolutionary War the British were in possession of many posts on
                        the frontier, among which was Kaskaskia, near the junction of the Kaskaskia
                        River with the Mississippi, in what is now the State of Illinois. This place
                        was originally a French post, founded in 1673, but it had been surrendered
                        to the British at the time of the fall of Canada and the consequent
                        overthrow of the French power in America, and from this point the British
                        authorities during the Revolution furnished the Indians with the supplies
                        which enabled them to harry the American frontier.
                    
                    In 1778, one of the first expeditions beyond the Ohio was sent out from
                        Virginia against Kaskaskia. This expedition was placed under the command of
                        Colonel George Rogers Clark, a man of great courage, immense energy, and
                        incredible powers of endurance. He had, besides, a peculiar talent for
                        Indian warfare. Indians seldom fight in the open battlefield. Their great
                        strength lies in surprises. They make sudden movements and plan ambuscades
                        with great craft. A lack of attention to these peculiarities of a savage foe
                        caused Braddock's defeat and many other disasters. But the skillful
                        frontier man, in all border skirmishes, adopted the Indian methods. In
                        nearly all frontier conflicts the number of men killed and wounded was
                        small. Men were scarce, and craft took the place of force. Many of the
                        expeditions sent from the East after that of Colonel Clark, were disastrous
                        failures, from the fact that the large forces of regulars would march into
                        the country, allowing the wary Indians time to prepare traps into which the
                        troops would blindly march only to be cut to pieces.
                    The object of Clark's expedition was kept a profound secret. A
                        regiment was authorized to be raised for the protection of the Western
                        frontier, and the confidence in Colonel Clark was so great that no trouble
                        was found in raising three hundred men without delay.
                    
                    This little force made a wilderness journey of more than a thousand miles.
                        They crossed the mountains of the Monongahela and descended by water to the
                        Falls of the Ohio. Here they were met by some Kentucky volunteers; for no
                        conflict, great or small, took place on the Western frontier in which the
                        war-like Kentuckians did not have a part. The expeditionary force then
                        proceeded down the Ohio to a point about sixty miles above its mouth, where
                        they hid their boats to prevent their being discovered by the Indians.
                        Clark's little army was now one hundred and thirty miles from
                        Kaskaskia, and the country to be traversed—what is now Southern
                        Illinois—was, in its wild state, almost impassable. Through this low
                        prairie, covered with a dense vegetation, the brave colonel marched at the
                        head of his men, his rifle on his shoulder and his provisions on his back.
                        They waded through or crossed by the quickest means available the numerous
                        streams and morasses on their route. They marched two days after their
                        provisions were exhausted, and arrived before the fortifications of
                        Kaskaskia in the night. The long march had been accomplished without
                        alarming either the English or the Indians; no one had suspected his coming.
                        Clark halted, formed his men, and delivered a short and pointed speech, of
                        which the substance was that "the town was to  be taken at all events." But the surprise was so great
                        that the capture was effected by stratagem, without resistance, on the night
                        of the fourth of July. The inhabitants were closely shut within their
                        houses, to prevent intelligence of the arrival of the Americans becoming
                        known in the other settlements. A detachment was mounted on the horses of
                        the country and immediately pushed on up the Mississippi to surprise the
                        villages there. They were all taken as secretly and suddenly as Kaskaskia,
                        and the power of Great Britain was entirely broken in the Mississippi River
                        country, by the sudden onslaught of a few hundred men.
                    Winning the favor of the French at Kaskaskia by kindness and shrewd
                        management, Clark got them to take the oath of allegiance to the United
                        States. Then he dispatched a friendly priest, Father Gibault, to sound the
                        people at Vincennes, an old French settlement on the Wabash which had become
                        a British post, and which now lay between Clark and the American
                        settlements.
                    Through the influence of this priest in the absence of the governor,
                        Vincennes declared for the Americans; but on the approach of Governor
                        Hamilton with a British force, the American captain, who with one private
                        soldier constituted the garrison, was forced to surrender. By planting a
                        loaded cannon
                         in the gate of the fort, and standing over it
                        with a lighted match, the commander of this little garrison of two extorted
                        the honors of war from his captor.
                    
                        Vincennes, having been considered within reach of an
                        attack from the Americans, had been strongly fortified, and was now well
                        garrisoned, and under the command of the English governor, Hamilton, an
                        experienced and excellent officer. He proposed to march upon Clark as soon
                        as possibly, with a certainty of success, for his force was greatly superior
                        to that of the Americans, and he had also under his command a body of six
                        hundred Indian warriors. The season was such, however, as to make any
                        movement seem entirely impracticable. The intervening country is low and
                        level, and the rivers and streams overflow their banks during heavy rains.
                        They were by this time greatly swollen. The British commander reasoned that
                        Colonel Clark would also be unable to move for the same reason that detained
                        him, and that upon the shores of the Mississippi no reinforcements could by
                        any possibility reach him from the distant settlements. As soon as the
                        streams should fall in the spring, Hamilton proposed to attack the Americans
                        at Kaskaskia with the assurance of success; and had Clark been a regular
                        military officer, or a common man accustomed to regard  difficulties or even to respect impossibilities, Governor
                        Hamilton's plans would have been sure to bring victory.
                    He reckoned badly, however, in feeling sure that anything could detain so
                        impetuous a man as Clark anywhere. Shrewdly guessing what were the purposes
                        of the British governor, and having been informed of the size of
                        Hamilton's force, he quickly saw that to await his arrival at
                        Kaskaskia would be fatal. The other expedient was almost equally desperate;
                        but he decided, in spite of all obstacles, to be himself the first to
                        attack.
                    To carry out this arduous undertaking he would have to pass, without a road,
                        through one hundred and sixty miles of "fertile soil, whose light,
                        spongy loam, saturated with water, afforded no firm footing to the steps of
                        the soldiery, and to cross the Kaskaskia, the Little Wabash, the Embarras,
                        and the Great Wabash Rivers, besides a number of their tributaries, all of
                        which were swollen and margined by wide belts of inundated land."
                        He began the march for Vincennes, however, having nothing but a few
                        pack-horses and the backs of the soldiers on which to carry his provisions
                        and ammunition. This march was made in eleven weary days of plodding through
                        mud and water, the troops sleeping at night without shelter on the damp
                        ground. At one time the men  refused to march
                        through an icy river. Clark mounted a little drummer boy on the shoulder of
                        a tall sergeant, and ordered the one to beat a march while the other
                        proceeded into the water. Clark drew his sword and fell in behind the
                        sergeant, crying, "Forward!" The men were amused and
                        elated by the scene, and of course followed the commander. This dauntless
                        man had each of the companies give a "feast" on successive
                        nights of the march, to which the others were invited. By means of these
                            frolies the men were made to forget the awful perils
                        and hardships of their march.
                    At last they reached the Great Wabash River, which of itself seemed a barrier
                        quite impassable. On the high eastern shore of its bank stood the English
                        fort with the swift current of the river sweeping around its foot, while the
                        western shore was low and full of treacherous quicksands, where Hall, in his
                        "Sketches of the West," says he has seen the horse sink
                        under his rider and become instantly buried in the mire. The prairie was now
                        covered for five miles with water, in some places too deep for fording, in
                        others too shallow for boats. Clark hesitated for no difficulties. It took
                        him five days to get his now starving and exhausted troops across this waste
                        of water, maneuvering successfully to conceal his forces from the enemy by
                        keeping as nearly under shelter  of the timber
                        as possible, sometimes wading breast-deep, and at other times using canoes
                        or constructing rafts. At one time when the men faltered he diverted them by
                        blacking his face with powder, giving a war-whoop, and making them follow
                        his example. Having at last achieved the passage of the river he appeared
                        before Vincennes, surprising the post as completely as he had surprised the
                        more western forts.
                    Before attacking the post he sent secretly the following characteristic
                        letter to the French inhabitants of the town. One cannot but smile now at
                        this manifesto of a commander whose troops had eaten almost nothing for five
                        days, and who were now to contend with a force greatly superior, a part of
                        which was composed of Indians who would show no mercy in case they were
                        victorious: 
                            
                                
                                    "To the Inhabitants of Post
                                            Vineennes.
                                        
                                        "GENTLEMEN:
                                    
                                    Being now within two miles of your village with my army,
                                        determined to take your Fort this night, and not being
                                        willing to surprise you, I take this method to request such
                                        of you as are true citizens and willing to enjoy the liberty
                                        I bring you, to remain still in your houses. And those, if
                                        any there are, that are friends to the King, will instantly
                                        repair to the Fort, and join the HAIR-BUYER GENERAL, and fight like men. And if any such as do
                                        not go to the Fort shall be discovered afterwards, they may
                                        depend on severe punishment. On the contrary, those who are
                                        true friends to liberty will be well treated.
                                    
                                        G. R. CLARK."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    The nick-name of Hair-Buyer General applied to the English commander
                        doubtless refers to the British use of the Indians as allies, and the
                        practice, on the part of the savages, of scalping those who fell into their
                        hands. It is but fair to state that Hamilton was a courteous and magnanimous
                        gentleman, notwithstanding Clark's contempt. The latter, like many
                        other brave and patriotic soldiers, was not remarkable for observing the
                        courtesies of life, nor indeed for personal culture. His spelling is very
                        eccentric. He speaks of himself as having been very much
                        "adjutated" at one time; he says
                        "atacted," and he receives
                        "intiligence." But it does not take the education of the
                        schools to make a daring and skillful frontier commander, and this last he
                        was.
                    By repeating Hannibal's stratagem of marching his few soldiers round
                        and round so as to make them seem many more than they were, and by a series
                        of tricks, some of which seemed almost like practical jokes and school-boy
                        pranks, he outwitted the English commander in every way. He had so few men
                        that he could ill afford to lose one, and another force that he had sent
                        round by water had not yet come. He kept his men under shelter, had them now
                        fire rapidly and then slacken, so as to seem to be relieving one party with
                        another. After a particularly hot fire the men would shout and laugh as
                        though it  were only play. Fearing that some
                        important dispatches intended for him had fallen into the enemy's
                        bands and would be destroyed, he concluded to force a surrender at once, if
                        possible. The demand was made with characteristic effrontery, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "SIR:
                                    
                                    In order to save yourself from the impending storm that
                                        threatens you, I order you immediately to
                                        surrender yourself, with all your garrison, stores,
                                        &c., &c.; for if I am obliged to storm, you
                                        may depend on such treatment as is justly due a murderer. Beware of destroying stores of any kind,
                                        or any papers or letters that are in your possession, or
                                        hurting one house in town, for, by Heavens! if you do, there
                                        shall be no mercy shown you.
                                    
                                        "G. R. CLARK.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "TO GOV. HAMILTON."
                    Hamilton refused to surrender, but soon after proposed a truce. This Clark
                        refused, making up in assurance what he lacked in force. Colonel Hamilton at
                        last capitulated, surrendering to Clark a force much more numerous than the
                        attacking party. By this victory the great north-western region was added to
                        the territory of the United States.
                    Two years later the border war came directly to Tecumseh's own home,
                        in an affair that must have left a strong impression on the boy's
                        mind. The Indian village of Piqua, picturesquely situated on a precipitous
                        cliff overlooking the Mad River, and bordered by a beautiful prairie, was
                        then quite populous. It is said that there was within its limits a rude log
                             fort surrounded with pickets, and more
                        than two hundred acres of corn and other vegetables had been planted there
                        by the Indians.
                    This time Colonel Clark led an expedition of a thousand Kentuckians against
                        the Shawnees residing on the Great Miami. He dropped upon them suddenly, as
                        was his fashion, and they had scarcely time to send to the woods for safety
                        their squaws and children, among whom, no doubt, was the young Tecumseh.
                        Though they defended their cabins for a time, their villages were burned and
                        the corn-fields destroyed. "This seems," says James Hall,
                        with great justice, "to have been the most effectual method for
                        bridling the ferocity of the Indians; the death of a portion of their
                        warriors only increased their fury, but the destruction of their villages
                        and corn-fields chilled their courage by showing them that war could be
                        carried to their homes, while it crippled their military power by forcing
                        them to engage in hunting to support their families."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    EARLY BATTLES AND ADVENTURES OF TECUMSEH.
                    IN 1786, Captain Benjamin Logan led a party of mounted men
                        against the villages of Machachacs (or
                            Mequacakcs), one of the four tribes into which the
                        Shawnees were divided at that time, and who lived on the waters of the Mad
                        River. His attack was made on the villages while most of the warriors were
                        absent, which may account for the fact that two Indian youths, who
                        afterwards became distinguished on opposite sides, should have been among
                        those who defended the villages at this time. In one of Logan's
                        skirmishes, near where the city of Dayton now stands, Tecumseh, who was not
                        more than sixteen or eighteen years of age, came under fire for the first
                        time. He was under the charge of his brother, the distinguished brave
                        Cheeseekau. It is said that the boy Tecumseh took fright and fled. A similar
                        story is told of the great Seneca chief, Red Jacket, and of Frederick the
                        Great. This is the only instance on record in which Tecumseh showed fear or
                        lost his presence of mind in peril.
                    
                    In this same skirmish, or in some other during this expedition, Captain Logan
                        captured Spemica Lawba, who afterwards took Logan's own name and
                        became celebrated, not like Tecumseh, as the enemy of the white man, but as
                        his friend. Captain Logan having entered a village from which the warriors
                        were mostly absent, captured, with slight resistance, thirty prisoners,
                        mostly women and children. But after the conclusion of the battle he was
                        much annoyed by arrows shot by some one with an aim so good as to greatly
                        harass the men. Search was made in the tall grass about the village until an
                        Indian boy was discovered with bow and quiver, boldly persecuting the
                        enemies of his people, though he fought single-handed. He was made prisoner,
                        and lived in Captain Logan's family for some years, until he was
                        exchanged and returned to his own people. His name, Spemica Lawba, meant
                        "The High Horn," but after his captivity he was always
                        known as Logan, and was ever afterward a steadfast friend of the whites. He
                        is not to be confounded with Logan, the famous Mingo chief.
                    The services which Logan was able to render to the whites in the war of 1812,
                        were many and brilliant; but there was one earlier enterprise of this most
                        friendly and faithful savage that deserves mention here.
                    
                    The Indians around Fort Wayne had been showing signs of hostility, and the
                        whites though best to remove the women and children, of whom there were
                        twenty-five, to a better protected place in Ohio. This defenceless party was
                        intrusted to the care and guidance of Logan. After nearly a hundred miles of
                        perilous travel he brought them safely to their destination. His sense of
                        responsibility in this difficult and delicate mission was so great that he
                        is said not to have slept during the whole time of its performance.
                    Tecumseh, a little later, took part in an attack made by the Indians on some
                        flatboats descending the Ohio. The greater part of the commerce of the Ohio
                        River was, until very recent times, carried on by large flatboats of
                        peculiar construction, often more than a hundred feet in length. These
                        covered flatboats, which still float on the large Western rivers, are
                        propelled by great oars, that require from two to four men to the oar, and
                        are moved by the men walking forward on the deck of the boat as they push
                        the oars through the water. So that each boat needs a crew of six or more.
                        In the time of peril from the Indians several of these boats were lashed
                        together in order that the force for defense might be greater. The flatboat
                        men and keelboat men of that day led adventurous and dangerous lives.
                        Voyaging 
                        
                         down the great Ohio and Mississippi
                            Rivere, they were a prey to the Indians and the
                        fierce outlaws who infested the river and the wilds of Tennessee and
                        Kentucky, through which their return journey by land was made.
                    If Tecumseh had manifested any lack of bravery and coolness in his previous
                        battle, he seemed determined to wipe out the stain this time, for he showed
                        such courage as to leave in the background some of the oldest and bravest
                        warriors in the party. The boats were captured and the men all killed with
                        the exception of one, who was taken prisoner and burnt according to the
                        barbarous Indian custom. Tecumseh silently witnessed the revolting scene, it
                        being his first experience of the kind. When it was over, the youth
                        expressed his abhorrence of it, and made the Indians so eloquent and
                        forceful a speech that they all agreed with him in saying that they never
                        would burn another prisoner. And it is believed that none of the party were
                        ever afterward guilty of participation in this fiendish practice. Nothing
                        could better indicate Tecumseh's wonderful power over men. It was a
                        very extraordinary thing for a mere stripling to succeed in persuading
                        Indians to renounce a custom so fixed and so suited to the
                            savagery of the Indian temper. From this battle dates
                        the beginning of Tecumseh's renown as a brave. In  hunting, which is the chief occupation of an
                        Indian, he early became famous.
                    About 1787, when he could not have been more than nineteen years of age, he
                        and his brother Cheeseckau, with a party of Kiscopokes—moved no doubt by
                        the impulse to wander which was so strong in all of the Shawnees—started
                        westward on an expedition in search of adventure.
                    They stopped for some time on the Mississinewa River, in what is now the
                        north-eastern part of Indiana. Here the young men were near home. After some
                        months, growing bolder or more vagrant in disposition, they crossed the
                        country westward and encamped on the Mississippi, opposite the mouth of
                        Apple Creek. After remaining for eight or nine months, they started toward
                        the country of the Cherokees, traveling to the south through Illinois to the
                        Ohio River, where they engaged in a buffalo hunt, in which Tecumseh was
                        thrown from his horse and had his thigh broken. This accident detained them
                        for several months opposite Fort Massac. After his recovery they continued
                        their wanderings southward under the lead of Cheeseekau.
                        On their arrival in the Cherokee country they found that tribe at war with
                        the whites. With true Shawnee love of battle and adventure, they offered to
                        join the Cherokees in their attack on a fort, the name of which is unknown.
                             A day or two before the assault took
                        place, if we may believe the story, Cheeseekau made a
                        speech to his followers, in which he predicted that at a certain hour on a
                        certain morning they would reach the fort, and he would be shot in the
                        forehead and killed. He told them that they would succeed in the attack,
                        however, if they persevered. They tried to induc uce him to turn back from
                        the undertaking, but he refused. Cheeseekau was killed
                        according to his presentiment. He fell with true Shawnee fanaticism,
                        rejoicing that it was his lot to die in battle, and saying that he did not
                        want to be buried at home like an old woman, but preferred that the fowls of
                        the air should pick his bones. The Indians, always superstitious, were
                        panic-stricken, and fled in spite of the attempts of Tecumseh and the
                        Cherokee leaders to rally them.
                    They young Tecumseh had not yet had enough of this adventurous life. He
                        remained in the South nearly two years. After his brother's death
                        he seems naturally to have taken the lead of his party. He told them that he
                        was determined not to return to his own country until he had done something
                        worthy of being told. So he took with him eight or ten men, and going to the
                        nearest settlement he attacked a house, killed all the men, and took the
                        women and children prisoners.
                    Such is the adventure which an Indian could recount  with pride around the camp-fire on his return home. Tecumseh
                        visited many of the Southern tribes at this time, probably learning
                        something of their languages, and gaining acquaintance and a reputation
                        among them as a brave, which was of use in his visit to them in after life,
                        when he was forming his great confederacy. During the whole time he led a
                        daring life, joining in many forays of the Southern tribes. His encampment
                        was three times attacked in the night, but so great was his carefulness, and
                        so excellent his judgment in the choice of a camping-ground, that no
                        advantage was gained over him. At one time a party of thirty whites attacked
                        him. Tecumseh, who had not yet laid down, was dressing some meat. He was on
                        his feet in an instant, and ordered his little band to follow him. Under
                        Tecumseh's lead, they rushed boldly upon the whites and killed two,
                        putting the rest to flight by the sheer impetuosity of their charge, without
                        the loss of a man. Tecumseh at last set out for his own country with eight
                        followers. On their homeward journey they went through Western Virginia.
                        Crossing the Ohio near the mouth of the Scioto River, they visited the
                        Machachac villages on Mad River; thence, they went to the Auglaize, which
                        they reached in the fall of 1790, having been absent from Ohio for three
                        years.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    DEFEAT OF HARMER AND ST. CLAIR.
                    IF Tecumseh had a budget of adventure to relate to his
                        friends around the camp-fires, the Indians in Ohio had, on their part, the
                        fresh news of a great victory to recount. Just preceding Tecumseh's
                        return, a battle between General Harmer and the Indians had been fought. It
                        was now seven years since the close of the Revolutionary War, but the
                        English still held posts in the Western Country. It had been stipulated,
                        when the independence of the United States was acknowledged by Great
                        Britain, that Americans should be held responsible for debts due to British
                        subjects, which had been contracted before the war and repudiated after the
                        Revolution began. But under the earlier form of government, the United
                        States could not enforce the collection of these debts in opposition to
                        statutes enacted by the several States to defeat the British creditor. This
                        failure of our government to comply with one of the
                            tipulations of the treaty gave the British government
                        a pretext for refusing to surrender the frontier posts, the holding of which
                        kept the profitable fur  trade in the hands of
                        English traders. These posts were not surrendered until a new treaty had
                        been made, in 1794. Meantime the presence of this semi-hostile military
                        power, and of the English traders, kept the Indians in a state of constant
                        enmity to the growing American settlements at the West.
                    Harmer had been sent into the West at the head of about three hundred Federal
                        troops and over eleven hundred Kentucky volunteers. The sole object of this
                        expedition was to penetrate into the Miami country and to destroy the
                        corn-fields of the Indians. This it accomplished successfully; and had it
                        attempted nothing more, all would have been well. The forces were about to
                        return, when some Indians were seen. Colonel Hardin, the commander of the
                        Kentucky troops, was sent out in pursuit, with a small detachment. He
                        followed the enemy for six miles directly into a trap. The Indians had
                        retreated, and after dividing themselves into two parties, had
                        countermarched at some distance on either side of their own trail, and then
                        approached it, concealing themselves in the tall grass. When Colonel Hardin
                        and his men had walked into this snare, the savages suddenly appeared on all
                        sides and fired upon the troops. Hardin bravely tried to rally his
                        panic-stricken men, but the Indians were greatly superior in numbers to this
                        detachment, and they charged  upon the soldiers
                        with gun and tomahawk, destroying all but those who saved themselves by
                        flight.
                    Two days later the army again set out on its return. After marching about ten
                        miles from the ruined villages, Harmer sent back Colonel Hardin with a
                        detachment of four or five hundred militia and about sixty regulars to the
                        principal towns, where he supposed the scattered Indians would gather on the
                        departure of the troops. But by this movement Harmer again foolishly divided
                        his army. There were only a few Indians found at the village however, who
                        fled on being attacked. The undisciplined militia, eager for revenge, rushed
                        off without orders in pursuit of them, leaving the regulars at the village.
                        It was for some s-ch subdivision that the wily savages
                        were waiting. No sooner were the regular troops left alone than an immense
                        number of Indians rose from an ambuscade. A fierce battle followed, the
                        enraged Indians throwing aside guns and fighting with tomahawks, and the
                        Americans with their bayonets, with which they made great havoc in the
                        Indian ranks for a time. The savages greatly outnumbered them, however, and
                        these brave troops and their commander, Major Willis, were slain almost to
                        the very last man. The militia had been recalled, but though they fought a
                        brave battle, and themselves suffered considerable  loss, they were too late to relieve the regulars. They retired
                        at last in good order before the superior numbers of the savages, who
                        attacked their ranks "like demons."
                    In this victory over General Harmer, Blue Jacket, an influential Shawnee
                        chief, and Little Turtle, a chief of the Miamis, commanded the Indians.
                    The year following Tecumseh's return he spent in hunting. In the
                        fall of 1791, news reached the Indians that General St. Clair was preparing
                        to march into their country. The young warrior Tecumseh was sent out with a
                        party of spies to watch the movements of this new expedition. St. Clair, a
                        brave and veteran soldier, began his march cautiously at the head of
                        fourteen hundred troops. Two forts were erected about forty miles apart, on
                        the route, for places of deposit, and to secure safety in case of retreat.
                        While Tecumsch and his party were lying on Nettle Creek, a stream which
                        flows into the Great Miami, St. Clair passed out through Greenville to the
                        head waters of the Wabash. In this way it happened that Tecumsch, acting as
                        a scout, did not participate in the battle itself.
                    General St. Clair, who had no skill in Indian warfare, was suddenly, at a
                        moment when he fancied himself secure, attacked on all sides by an
                        over-whelming force of Indians, who had long been  hanging upon his flanks, and had thus become thoroughly
                        acquainted with the numbers and disposition of his troops. The soldiers
                        fought bravely, but seeing themselves environed on all sides by countless
                        hordes of savages, they became panic-stricken and fled, pursued by the
                        Indians, who filled the air with demoniac yells, while they killed all they
                        could lay their hands on. Weary with slaughter, they turned back at last to
                        enjoy the plunder of the deserted camp.
                    The troops had been formed in close order; a plan which was always bad, and
                        which was wholly given up in Indian warfare after this disaster. The close
                        order of the whites gave the Indians a great advantage, and St.
                        Clair's loss in this defeat amounted to nearly eight hundred, while
                        it is supposed that the Indian loss did not much exceed ten men. The whole
                        country was plunged into grief and consternation by this overthrow of an
                        army regarded as well-nigh invincible.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    SKIRMISHES WITH THE WHITES—TECUMSEH AND KENTON.
                    IN the month of December, 1792, Tecumseh was encamped with
                        ten warriors and a boy, near a place called Big Rock. As the party sat
                        smoking around their camp-fire, early in the morning, they were suddenly
                        fired upon by a company of whites of nearly three times their number, under
                        command of Robert McClelland. Tecumsch instantly gave the war-whoop, and the
                        Indians sprang to their feet and returned the fire. He told the boy to run,
                        but looking around saw Black Turkey, one of his warriors, running also.
                        Tecumseh angrily called him back, and although he was a hundred yards away
                        when Tecumsch saw him, he obeyed the order and joined in the fight. Two
                        whites were killed, of whom one was slain by Tecumsch himself.
                        McClelland's party retreated, and while following them Tecumsch
                        broke the trigger to his gun, and then gave over the pursuit. The Indians
                        came off with a loss  of but two wounded, one
                        of whom was the runaway, Black Turkey.
                    In Tecumseh's next adventures he came into conflict with Simon
                        Kenton, one of the most famous of all the frontier men and Indian fighters.
                        In March, 1792, some horses were stolen from settlements in Kentucky by
                        Indians. A party of thirty-six whites immediately gathered to pursue the
                        marauders, and of this party Kenton was the leader. Following the trail of
                        the Indians they crossed the Ohio River by means of rafts, and continued to
                        follow the Indian trail all the next day in bad weather and over wet ground.
                        The following morning twelve men were permitted to return, being unable to
                        continue the pursuit. The remaining twenty-four still followed the trail
                        until about eleven in the morning, when they heard the tinkling of a bell,
                        such as the frontier men were accustomed to tie on the necks of their
                        horses. Supposing themselves to be near an Indian encampment, all
                        unnecessary articles of clothing and baggage were laid aside, and two
                        detachments sent ahead to reconnoiter. The scouts advancing found that the
                        sound of the bell was coming nearer. A halt was ordered, and the whites saw
                        a solitary Indian approaching them. He was dispatched, and the scouts were
                        again sent forward by Kenton, who felt sure of finding an Indian encampment
                        close at hand. This  they soon discovered on a
                        fork of the Little Miami But the Indian force appeared to be so large that
                        on calling a council it was thought best to retire until night came on, if a
                        retreat could be effected without discovery. This was done, two scouts being
                        left to watch the enemy's camp. At night, the men being wet and
                        cold, the party was marched into a ravine, where a fire could be built
                        without danger of discovery by means of the smoke.
                    The men were then divided into three divisions, which were to attack the
                        Indians simultaneously. They had approached very near the camp when an
                        Indian rose and stirred the fire. For fear of discovery he was instantly
                        shot, and the attack began. The whites had chosen "Boone"
                        for their watchword. This choice of a watchword was unfortunate, for
                        Boone's was a name which the savages had many good reasons for
                        knowing, and which was indeed quite as familiar to their ears as to those of
                        the whites. The attack was made after midnight, and it was very dark. In a
                        few moments the whites and Indians were mingled together; wild and confusing
                        cries of "Boone," and "Che Boone," arose
                        on all sides from both parties. Kenton expected the Indians to be
                        panic-stricken at the first dash of a night attack, but the presence of
                        Tecumseh had prevented this. At the first alarm he had rushed forward and
                        killed a  white man with his war-club, and his
                        presence of mind and the confidence of the Indians in his leadership quite
                        defeated Kenton's hopes. By some it is said that Kenton discovered
                        another camp on the opposite bank of the river, but that account is the more
                        probable which tells how in the melee an Indian fell into the water; the
                        splashing which he made led the whites to believe that reinforcements were
                        coming. Kenton accordingly ordered a retreat after a few minutes of
                        fighting. They were pursued by the Indians through the remainder of the
                        night and a part of the next day.
                    On the day previous to this battle one of the white men had succeeded in
                        catching an Indian horse, which he had tied in the rear of the camp. When a
                        retreat was ordered he mounted this horse and rode off. Early the following
                        morning Tecumsch and four of his men started out in pursuit of the
                        retreating Kentuckians. Discovering this man's trail, they followed
                        him, and at last came upon him where he had stopped to cook some meat. He
                        fled at sight of the Indians, two of whom with Tecumsch pursued him. Seeing
                        that they would inevitably overtake him, he turned and aimed his gun at
                        them. The two Indians who were in advance of Tecumsch immediately sprang
                        behind trees, but Tecumsch rushed up and took him prisoner. He was tied and
                        taken  back to camp. Tecumseh then asked some
                        of the Indians to catch the horses, but as they seemed unwilling to do it,
                        he went himself with one other.
                    When he returned to the camp, he found that his men had killed the prisoner.
                        At this he was very indignant, angrily denouncing it as cowardly to kill a
                        helpless captive. In this matter of the treatment of prisoners, he was
                        always far more humane than the savages, and indeed more humane than many of
                        the white settlers.
                    Tecumsch's next skirmish was with another party under Kenton. In
                        1793, a party of thirty-three men was formed to cut off some Indians who had
                        attacked settlements in Kentucky, and were returning through Ohio with their
                        prisoners. In this expedition Kenton commanded one of the three divisions
                        into which the small party were divided. After crossing the Ohio River, they
                        encamped near Paint Creek. Soon after their halt for the night, a noise was
                        heard, and an Indian camp was discovered close at hand. This camp was not
                        that of the marauders, but of Tecumseh, who with a few followers,
                        accompanied by their women and children, was engaged in hunting on the banks
                        of this creek. The whites reconnoitered and found that the Indian horses
                        were between them and the Indian camp. It was decided that no attack should
                        be made on the Indians until  it should be
                        light enough to shoot accurately. The plan was for each of the three bodies
                        of men to place themselves on different sides of the encampment, which would
                        then be guarded, as the creek was on the fourth side. The Kentuckians
                        marched to the enemy's camp very early. Before two of the parties
                        had reached their positions, a dog barked among the Indians, and a gun was
                        fired. On this alarm, the whites instantly began their attack, the men
                        rushing to their positions; but the plan was entirely deranged by the first
                        party's having taken the wrong side of the camp. It is said that
                        Tecumseh called out to his warriors, of whom their were but six or seven,
                        that the women and children must be defended. The Indians sent back the
                        battle cry, and instantly "treed," in Western
                        parlance—that is, concealed themselves behind trees, It was still quite
                        dark, and a good dead of random shooting and much Indian shouting was done
                        with little effect. At this time Tecumseh sent some of his men around to the
                        rear of the whites to get the horses; these were brought to the front
                        without discovery, and the Indians all quickly mounted and rode away,
                        carrying with them their only wounded man, a white man by the name of John
                        Ward. He had been captured when three years old by the Indians, among whom
                        he had grown up, married, and raised several children.  Curiously enough, he was the brother of one of the men
                        associated in this expedition with Simon Kenton. John Ward died of the wound
                        received in this fight. So strange were the vicissitudes of border life in
                        that day.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    A SKETCH OF SIMON KENTON.
                    SIMON KENTON lived one of the most
                        eventful of lives, and there is no frontier man whose adventures give us a
                        more vivid picture of border warfare, and of the relations of the settlers
                        and Indians at the time of Tecumseh's advent, than his. In the
                        present chapter, therefore, we turn aside from Tecumseh to give a sketch of
                        some incidents in the life of one who was several times his antagonist.
                        Kenton fled from Virginia at seventeen years of age, in consequence of a
                        fight with a young man who was his rival in the affections of a country
                        belle. The girl had been unable to decide between the two; or what is more
                        likely, had preferred the glory of having her lovers fight it out. Kenton
                        was but sixteen when the fight took place, and, owing to foul play on the
                        part of the friends of his robust rival, he had been beaten. A year after he
                        sought another fight, in which his antagonist, after throwing him, kicked
                        and taunted him brutally. He however managed in the moment of his
                        humiliation to tie his enemy's hair, which was very long, to some
                        brush, after which he beat him  most
                        unmercifully. Believing that the man would die from the effects of the
                        beating, Kenton fled to the West and assumed the name of Butler. Here he
                        became renowned as a hunter and Indian fighter. One of his adventures will
                        illustrate the character of the backwoodsman and that of the ordinary
                        Indian, who was quite different from the exceptional man like Tecumseh.
                    About 1777, Kenton, who was acting as a scout under Boone, was sent in this
                        capacity with two other men to a Shawnee town on the Little Miami. In this
                        adventure, the spies made off with a number of Indian horses. They were
                        discovered and chased by the Indians. The captured horses were led by two
                        men, who rode in front, while the other one rode in the rear, lashing the
                        horses with a whip to keep them up to time. They dashed through the woods
                        thus, hearing behind them the cries of the pursuing Indians. They rode
                        forward, aiming a straight course for the Ohio River, during the whole
                        night, without stopping to rest, and after halting but a short time in the
                        morning, traveled all that day and the following night. They thus reached
                        the river far ahead of their pursuers. Its waters, however, were so rough
                        that it was impossible to force the animals to cross. They were unwilling to
                        let them go, however, in order to save their own lives.  "Death or captivity might be tolerated, but the loss
                        of so beautiful a let of horses, after having worked so hard for them, was
                        not to be thought of."
                    The Indians were upon them at the close of twenty-four hours which they had
                        wasted on this spot. Kenton's gun flashed when he fired, and he
                        tried to save himself by running through the woods, but an Indian soon
                        galloped up near him, extending his hand and calling out affectionately,
                        "Brother! brother!" Kenton said afterwards that if his
                        gun, which was wet, would have made fire he would have
                        "brothered" him to his heart's content. Making
                        him promise good treatment, however, Kenton surrendered. He then received
                        many proofs of brotherly kindness, the Indians using their ramrods over his
                        head and e-ming with indignation, "Steal Indian
                        hoss, hey!" Meantime, one of Kenton's friends was shot
                        while bravely riding to his rescue, but the other made good his escape.
                    The captors secured their prisoner for the night by
                            foreing him to lie upon his back and putting a stout
                        pole across his breast, to which they fastened his wrists with thongs made
                        of buffalo hide. His feet were then made fast in the same manner to stakes
                        driven into the ground. A halter was tied around his neck and secured to a
                        sapling growing near. Finally a strong rope was passed around his breast  and tied to the stick to which his arms had
                        been fastened, his elbows also being tied to this pole. While this operation
                        was being performed they boxed his ears soundly, calling him "A
                        tief! a hoss steal! a rascal!" and swearing profusely at the same
                        time. For, as the author of "Western Adventure" says,
                        "all the Western Indians had picked up a good many English words,
                        particularly our oaths, which, from the frequency with which they were used
                        by our hunters and traders, they probably looked upon as the very root and
                        foundation of the English language."
                    The Indians with their prisoner were three days in reaching their village of
                        Chillicothe. During the night he was confined in the way described, and in
                        the day time was tied, for their amusement, on a fine, wild, and entirely
                        unbroken colt, which was one of the horses the Indians had recovered from
                        Kenton's party.
                    When they came near Chillicothe, the party halted and a messenger was sent
                        forward to inform the village of their arrival. A chief by the name of
                        Blackfish soon came to meet them. He regarded Kenton severely.
                    "You have been stealing horses?" he shouted, in good
                        English.
                    "Yes, sir," answered Kenton.
                    
                    "Did Captain Boone tell you to steal our horses?" demanded
                        the chief.
                    "No, sir; I did it of my own accord," said Kenton.
                    This enraged Blackfish so that he applied a hickory stick with great force to
                        Kenton's back and shoulders.
                    On nearing the village he saw all the inhabitants, men, women, and children
                        down to the smallest, running to meet him. He was now greeted with torrents
                        of abuse, and demands that he should be immediately tied to the stake. This
                        operation was soon performed, the squaws assisting in it. They then danced
                        around him until midnight, whooping and yelling, striking him freely with
                        their hands and with switches. They reserved the pleasure of burning him,
                        however, until another time.
                    The following day he was made to run the gauntlet. In this operation, a
                        double row of men, women, and boys extended about a quarter of a mile, each
                        holding some instrument of torture, such as clubs, switches, hoe-handles,
                        and tomahawks. At the beginning of the line stood two warriors with
                        butcher-knives in their hands, while at the end an Indian was beating a
                        drum. A little beyond the drum was the council-house. The prisoner is forced
                        to run the length of this line, between the double row of well-applied  Indian vengeance, taking refuge in the
                        council-house.
                    The race being over, a council was held to decide the question of whether the
                        prisoner should be immediately burned or taken first to the other villages
                        and exhibited to the tribes. The warriors sat entirely silent, in a ring on
                        the floor of the council-house, while the vote was taken. The manner of this
                        was to pass a war-club around the circle. Those who were in favor of
                        postponing the execution were to pass the club on in silence, while those
                        who were "contrary minded" were to strike it violently on
                        the ground.
                    An Indian, furnished with a knife and piece of wood, was appointed to count
                        the votes. This he did by making a mark on one side of the wood for those of
                        one opinion, and on the other side for the other. He quickly announced that
                        the execution was postponed, and that the prisoner was to be taken to a
                        village called Waughcotomoco. Kenton inquired of the interpreter, when
                        informed of this decision, what they would do with him there. He was
                        fiercely informed that he was to be burned.
                    On the way to Waughcotomoco, Kenton meditated an escape. He thought if he
                        must burn anyway they could do no worse to him if he were recaptured. He
                        could not make up his mind to this daring act, 
                        
                         however, until the Indians fired their guns
                        and raised the scalp halloo, which was answered by the deep roll of a drum
                        far ahead. With a loud cry Kenton fled into the dense woods. He was
                        instantly pursued, but so swift was his flight that he would have escaped
                        had it not been that he stumbled into the midst of another war party, which
                        had come forth from the village on hearing the firing.
                    At this village of Piqua, Tecumseh's birthplace. he was again tied
                        to the stake, the warriors assembling in the council-house. After their
                        debate they surrounded the stake, dancing and yelling for some hours.
                    At Waughcotomoco he was once more compelled to ran the gauntlet, in which he
                        was severely hurt. He was then taken to the council-house, where his fate
                        was to be decided. He was sitting dejectedly awaiting his death, when the
                        council-house door opened, and Simon Girty, a famous outlaw who had joined
                        the Indians, and excelled them in savagery, appeared, along with some
                        prisoners and scalps. Kenton was removed from the council-house, and after
                        some hours was taken back and informed that his fate had been decided. He
                        divined from the savage scowls of the Indians on his entrance that there was
                        no hope for him. He was ordered by Girty to seat himself. Kenton seems to
                        have felt  somewhat stubborn about obeying in
                        any hurry this renegade white man, but Girty violently jerked him down.
                    "How many men are there in Kentucky?" demanded Girty.
                    "It is impossible for me to answer that question," said
                        Kenton, "but I can tell you the number of officers, and you can
                        judge for yourself."
                    "Do you know William Stewart?" was the next inquiry.
                    "Perfectly well; he is an old and intimate acquaintance,"
                        answered the prisoner.
                    "What is your own name?"
                    "Simon Butler," replied Kenton.
                    As soon as Girty heard the name he sprang to his feet and threw his arms
                        around the neck of the prisoner. Previous to Simon Girty's
                        desertion of the whites, they had been spies together in Governor
                        Dunmore's expedition, and Girty had formed a warm attachment for
                        Kenton.
                    Girty then made the astonished warriors a speech in which he told them that
                        their prisoner "was his bosom friend; that they had traveled the
                        same war-path, slept upon the same blanket, and dwelt in the same
                        wigwam." He earnestly pleaded for the life of his friend. Several
                        of the chiefs expressed their approval by a low guttural sound. Many others
                        disapproved, crossing the Ohio River, they encamped near Paint Creek. Soon
                        after their halt for the night, a noise was heard, and an Indian camp was
                        discovered close at hand. This camp was not that of the marauders, but of
                        Tecumseh, who with a few followers, accompanied by their women and children,
                        was engaged in hunting on the banks of this creek. The whites reconnoitered
                        and found that the Indian horses were between them and the Indian camp. It
                        was decided that no attack should be made on the Indians until  proved, saying they would be acting like
                        squaws to change their mind every hour, recounting Kenton's
                        misdemeanors, and pathetically pleading the disappointment of those who had
                        come from a distance to see the burning.
                    Girty again urged vehemently his request, claiming it as the reward of his
                        own savage loyalty to the Indian cause since he had come among them.
                    The debate lasted for an hour and a half, and then the vote was taken.
                        Kenton, who a few hours before had been despairingly resigned to his fate,
                        now watched with the greatest excitement the war-club go around. He saw that
                        there were many more who passed the club in silence than those who struck
                        the ground with it.
                    For three weeks Kenton lived with his friend, being treated with great
                        kindness. One day, however, the war-whoop was heard, and they were obliged
                        to go to the council-house—Kenton with dread in his heart, having a great
                        dislike to all council-houses. It was unusually full, many chiefs and
                        warriors from a distance being present. Kenton saw that there was an ominous
                        look on the faces of the warriors. Girty walked around the room offering his
                        hand to those present, and it was received with cordiality, but when Kenton
                        offered his it was rejected with scowls. He tried six Indians in this way
                        and then  sat down in utter dejection. A warm
                        debate followed, in which the chiefs from a distance were stern and
                        indignant, and Girty's arguments seemed to have little influence.
                        He at last turned to Kenton.
                    "Well, my friend, you must die!" said he.
                    The prisoner was then started on his journey with a halter around his neck.
                        When they had gone some distance, Girty passed them on horseback, telling
                        Kenton he had friends at the next village whom he hoped to influence in his
                        favor. Girty, however, could do nothing, and returned to Waughcotomoco
                        another way, not wishing to see his friend under the circumstances.
                    They passed through the next village. On the road Kenton was attacked by an
                        Indian, who had been sitting on a log smoking and directing his wife in her
                        labor of chopping, but who, on the approach of the prisoner, seized the ax
                        and dealt Kenton such a blow as to wound him severely. He was reprimanded by
                        those Indians who accompanied Kenton, for trying to destroy their own
                        amusement by interfering with their right to kill their prisoner.
                    They stopped at a village on the head waters of the
                        Scioto. Here Kenton saw the celebrated lingo
                        chief, Logan. "Logan's form was striking and manly, his
                        countenance calm and noble."
                    
                    "Well, young man, these young men seem to be very mad at
                        you!" said Logan, in correct English.
                    "Yes, sir, they certainly are," answered Kenton.
                    "Well, don't be disheartened," said Logan.
                        "I am a great chief. You are to go to Sandusky; they speak of
                        burning you there, but I will send two runners to-morrow to speak good for
                        you."
                    The runners were sent, and during their absence Kenton was treated with
                        kindness, holding many conversations with the friendly chief. When the
                        runners returned they were closeted with Logan, of whom Kenton saw nothing
                        until the next morning, when the chief gave him a piece of bread, told him
                        that he was to go instantly to Sandusky, and turned on his heel and walked
                        away. At this, Kenton naturally lost all hope.
                    He was taken to Sandusky, and was to be burned the following morning. An
                        English Indian agent, however, interceded for him this time, saying that he
                        wished to obtain information for the commandant at Detroit. The Indians were
                        much opposed to giving up their victim, and it was only with the pleasant
                        promise to return him after he had obtained the information that the agent
                        got possession of Kenton. At Detroit he remained a prisoner, though kindly
                        treated, for almost a year. He then laid a plan to escape with two
                        Kentuckians. They had  to pass through a
                        hundred miles of country filled with hostile Indians, but by taking a
                        circuitous route, and by journeying only at night, they arrived at
                        Louisville after thirty days.
                    In this strange adventure among the Shawnees, Simon Kenton was forced to run
                        the gauntlet eight times, and was three times tied to the stake to be
                        burned.
                    Kenton afterwards rose to the rank of general in the militia, and died at the
                        age of eighty-one, in a populous country filled with cities and
                        manufactories, where he used to wander as a hunter and warrior, and through
                         he had been led as a doomed captive.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    WAYNE'S VICTORY OVER THE INDIANS.
                    THE country was now greatly distressed by the Indian war
                        on the frontier. The administration of President Washington was severely
                        condemned by the opposition for the defeats of Harmar and St. Clair. The
                        treasury was so low that the money which had been expended on these
                        expeditions—a large amount for the times—was greatly regretted. Those
                        who had any liking for a military life looked with horror upon the Indian
                        war. Soldiers came to have a superstitious dread of the savages. So great
                        indeed was this dread that bare intelligence of the approach of Indians
                        would throw them into a panic. Under these circumstances, General Anthony
                        Wayne was placed in command of the North-Western army. "Mad Anthony
                        Wayne," as he was often called, had distinguished himself by his
                        services during the Revolutionary War, in which he had fought from the
                        beginning to the end. He was known as "the hero of Stony
                        Point," he having stormed the fort of that name, on the Hudson.
                        Washington now selected him to retrieve the fortunes of the United States in
                             her Indian wars, and impressed upon his
                        mind "that another defeat would be inexpressibly ruinous to the
                        reputation of the government."
                    The troops placed under General Wayne were new and undisciplined. Without
                        sufficient aid, and with the greatest labor, he set out to instruct them in
                        military discipline, and to practice them especially in shooting at a
                        target, knowing that marksmanship was of the very first importance in Indian
                        warfare. He stimulated their emulation by offering prizes to be contended
                        for in these rifle matches. He was also very careful to keep whisky, which
                        he called "ardent poison," out of the reach of his
                        camp.
                    In time they gave their commander much pleasure by their progress, and the
                        general and his army were impatient to be engaged in active service. This
                        was not yet permitted, the government being anxious to make peace if
                        possible, and feeling very cautious about risking another great defeat. Many
                        overtures for peace were made through General Wayne, but the Indians, elated
                        by their brilliant successes, and encouraged by the half-hostile English
                        authorities in Canada and in the Western posts yet held by the British,
                        rejected all advances.
                    Among other forts built by Wayne, one was crected on the
                        spot of General St. Clair's defeat  and named Fort
                        Recovery.
                    
                    This fort was attacked in the summer of 1794 by a large body of Indians of
                        various tribes, estimated at more than fifteen hundred. One of the Shawnees
                        in this attack was Tecumseh. The savages assailed a body of ninety riflemen
                        and fifty dragoons, who were starting on their return after having escorted
                        a large amount of supplies to the fort. An exciting battle ensued, in which
                        many of the officers and men were killed before the retreat into the fort
                        could be effected. After the troops had reached the fort, two officers were
                        given up for dead, when they were seen running from different directions,
                        hotly pursued by the Indians, and notwithstanding the fire of the enemy they
                        reached the fort in safety. One of them had escaped by knocking down an
                        Indian who had captured him.
                    The savages continued the attack for the remainder of the day, losing many of
                        their number by the artillery fire from the fort. During the night they
                        carried off their dead by the light of torches, with the exception of a few
                        which were too near the fort to be reached.
                    The attack was resumed the following morning, but resulted in the final rout
                        of the Indians.
                    Wayne had called upon the governor of Kentucky for two thousand mounted
                        volunteers. In July, 1794, they arrived, under the command of Major-General
                             Scott. General Wayne now made
                        demonstrations which led the enemy to believe that he intended to attack the
                        villages on the Miami, but he moved suddenly and rapidly into the very heart
                        of the Indian settlements on the Grand Glaize. These lay almost under the
                        very guns of one of the frontier forts yet held by British troops. Full of
                        exultation, the general wrote:—
                    "We have gained possession of the grand emporium of the hostile
                        Indians in the West without loss of blood. The very extensive and
                        highly-cultivated fields and gardens show the work of many hands. The
                        margins of those beautiful rivers, the Miamis of the Lake and the Au Glaize,
                        appear like one continued village for a number of miles above and below this
                        place; nor have I ever beheld such immense fields of corn in any part of
                        America from Canada to Florida."
                    Here—in the western part of what is now the State of Ohio—Wayne built a
                        fort, and named it Defiance. He generously made one more offer of peace to
                        the Indians. In writing of this, he adds: "But should war be their
                        choice, that blood be upon their own heads. America shall no longer be
                        insulted with impunity. To an all-powerful and just God I therefore commit
                        myself and gallant army."
                    The Indians, assembled in great force, held a council,  composed of Miami, Pottawatomie, Delaware, Shawnee, Chippewa,
                        Ottawa, and Seneca chiefs. It was proposed to attack General
                        Wayne's encampment that night. This was decided in the negative.
                        The plan of meeting him next day in battle was then discussed. The Miami
                        chief, Little Turtle, was much opposed to this, and favored peace.
                    "We have beaten the enemy twice under different
                        commanders," said he. "We cannot expect the same good
                        fortune always to attend us. The Americans are now led by a chief who never
                        sleeps. The night and the day are alike to him; and during all the time that
                        he has been marching upon our villages, notwithstanding the watchfulness of
                        our young men, we have never been able to surprise him. Think well of it.
                        There is something whispers me, it would be prudent to listen to his offers
                        of peace."
                    The Shawnee chief Blue Jacket, who had entire command of the Indians in the
                        ensuing battle, was strongly in favor of giving battle. His influence
                        prevailed over the wiser advice of Little Turtle. In the morning General
                        Wayne advanced, not yet sure whether the Indians intended to fight or not. A
                        body of his men were soon fired on, however, by the Indians who were
                        secreted in the woods and tall grass. Tecumseh, already distinguished as a
                        brave, led a party of Shawnees. At the beginning of the action  he and two of his brothers were in the advance
                        guard. Wayne found the ground covered with fallen trees, probably the result
                        of a tornado. This was particularly favorable to the Indian mode of
                        fighting.
                    In General Wayne's own account of the battle, he says that the
                        Indians "were formed in three lin, within supporting
                        distance of each other, and extending nearly two miles, at right angles with
                        the river." He adds: "I soon discovered from the weight of
                        the fire, and the extent of their lines, that the enemy were in full force
                        in front, in possession of their favorite ground, and endeavoring to turn
                        our left flank. I therefore gave orders for the second line in advance to
                        support the first, and directed Major-General Scott to gain and turn the
                        right flank of the savages, with the whole of the mounted volunteers, by a
                        circuitous route. At the same time I ordered the front line to advance with
                        trailed arms, and to rouse the Indians from their coverts, at the point of
                        the bayonet; and, when up, to deliver a close and well-directed fire on
                        their backs, followed by a brisk charge, so as not to give time to load
                        again. I also ordered Captain Mis Campbell, who commanded
                        the legionary cavalry, to turn the left flank of the enemy next the river,
                        and which afforded a favorable ground for that corps to act in. All these
                        orders were obeyed with spirit and promptitude; but such was the impetuosity
                        of the  charge by the first line of infantry,
                        that the Indians and Canadian militia and volunteers were driven from all
                        their coverts in so short a time, that although every exertion was used by
                        the officers of the second line of the legion, and by Generals Scott, Todd,
                        and Barbee, of the mounted volunteers, to gain their proper positions, yet
                        but a part of them could get up in season to participate in the action; the
                        enemy being driven, in the course of one hour, more than two miles, through
                        the thick woods, by less than one-half their numbers."
                    During this battle Tecumsch fought for some time, when in loading his rifle
                        he put a bullet in before the powder and thus lost the use of his gun. He
                        was at the same time forced to retreat by some infantry which pressed him in
                        front. This he did with his party until he met another company of Indians,
                        whom he urged to stand fast, saying if any one would lend him a gun he would
                        show them how to do it. With a fowling-piece which was handed him he fought
                        a while, until again compelled to give ground. This time, while falling
                        back, he met a party of Shawnees whom he rallied and induced to make a stand
                        in a thicket. When the infantry pressed them close and fired their muskets
                        into the bushes, Tecumseh's party returned the fire, and then
                        retreated to the main force of the Indians. A 
                        brother of Tecumseh's, named Sauwaseekau, a brave warrior, was
                        killed during the day.
                    In this famous battle Tecumsch was for the first time opposed to William
                        Henry Harrison, who was afterward to become his chief antagonist. Harrison
                        was then a young man of about Tecumseh's own age. Neither of them
                        had any part in the plan of the battle, but both acted their parts well. An
                        immense destruction of Indian villages and corn-fields followed the victory
                        of General Wayne.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    THE PEACE AT GREENVILLE—BLUE JACKET.
                    FORT MIAMI, the British fort which
                        stood in the midst of these Indian villages, was a great provocation to the
                        American troops, who knew well that the presence of an English force was one
                        of the chief causes of trouble. General Wayne made a reconnoissance in force
                        under the very walls of the fort, and the English officers with difficulty
                        restrained their men from firing on him. Some angry correspondence ensued
                        between the two commanders, but "Mad Anthony Wayne" was a
                        man of coolness and self-control, and he could easily see that it was not
                        wise to plunge the infant nation into a new war with the mother country.
                        And, notwithstanding his courage, there can be little doubt that the
                        powerful armament of Fort Miami helped him to a prudent decision in the
                        matter. To have assailed so strong a work as this with the means at his
                        disposal, would have been to have risked all the fruits of his victory in a
                        most desperate venture.
                    The Indians were beaten and anxious for peace. In October, Blue Jacket, the
                        Shawnee, headed a  deputation of chiefs, for
                        the purpose of bearing a flag to General Wayne. English agents intercepted
                        this flag by inviting the chiefs of the combined army to meet them at the
                        mouth of the Detroit River. Here they were urged to remain in hostility to
                        the United States. In a speech to them, Governor Simcoe
                        said:—
                    "CHILDREN: I am still of the opinion that the
                        Ohio is your right and title. I have given orders to the commandant of Fort
                        Miami to fire on the Americans whenever they make their appearance again. I
                        will go down to Quebec, and lay your grievances before the great men. From
                        thence they will be forwarded to the King, your father. Next spring you will
                        know the result of everything what you and  will do."
                    The English in Canada did not know at what moment hostilities might break out
                        again between England and the United States, and they succeeded by such
                        persuasions in delaying the conclusion of peace between the Indians and the
                        Americans.
                    During the following winter, however, parties of Wyandots, Ottawas,
                        Chippewas, Pottawatomies, Saes, Miamis, Delawares, and
                        Shawnees visited General Wayne's headquarters, where they signed
                        preliminary treaties of peace, agreeing to meet Wayne at Greenville in June,
                        with all their sachems and war-chiefs, to conclude a definite treaty of
                        peace.
                    
                    This treaty of Greenville was of the greatest importance to the Western
                        country. By it the Indians relinquished large bodies of lands for
                        settlement, and the peace there established continued so long as the memory
                        of Wayne's victory remained fresh in the minds of the savages.
                        During the eighteen years of peace which followed, the Western settlements
                        were so firmly established that, on the rise of the new opposition under
                        Tecumsch and the Prophet, it was quite beyond the reach of possibility for
                        the Indians to check for any considerable time the rapid development of the
                        West. Tecumseh heartily hated this treaty of Greenville; it had given repose
                        to the settlements, and had confirmed the title of the whites to the land on
                        which new and powerful communities had grown up.
                    The principal speaker on behalf of the Shawnees in this council was the
                        famous Blue Jacket, who had commanded the Indian forces in the battle with
                        Wayne, and who had been a joint commander with Little Turtle in the attack
                        on St. Clair. When he met Wayne at Greenville he made apologies for his
                        tardiness in not coming sooner, as he had promised, and gave the most solemn
                        assurance of his sincerity. We get a curious glimpse of the relations
                        subsisting between the various Indian nations in his speech on the second
                        day of the council: "Brothers, I  hope
                        you will not take amiss my changing my seat in this council. You all know
                        that the Wyandots are our uncles, and the Delawares our grandfathers, and
                        that the Shawnees are the elder brothers of the other nations present. It is
                        therefore proper that I should sit next my grandfathers and
                        uncles."
                    This fictitious relationship between the various tribes is quite often
                        alluded to in the Indian transactions among themselves. At the close of the
                        council Blue Jacket made another speech that brings out the temporary
                        character of the authority of a war-chief. He began: "Elder
                        brother, and you my brothers present, you see me now present myself as a
                        war-chief to lay down that commission, and place myself in the rear of my
                        village chiefs, who for the future will command me."
                    Notwithstanding all his protestations of peaceful intentions for the rest of
                        his life, he appears again in the troubles fomented by Tecumsch.
                    There is a curious story that illustrates his duplicity. In the year 1800, he
                        agreed to show to a company a valuable mine on the head waters of the
                        Kentucky River. But ever as their eagerness increased did his demands become
                        more exorbitant. As he was during all these negotiations boarding at the
                        expense of the company, he did not seem to be in any  hurry to conclude them. When at length the bargain was made,
                        and the horses, goods, and money were delivered, Blue Jacket and another
                        chief who was associated with him were escorted in great state to Kentucky,
                        their wives and children accompanying them. They were treated in the most
                        flattering way, and all their wants were anticipated. When they reached the
                        region of the fabled mine, traveling with great secrecy, he spent some time
                        in "pow-wow-ing," humbling himself with fasting and
                        prayer, to get permission from the Great Spirit to reveal the location of
                        this secret wealth. He got but a doubtful answer in his dreams, and after
                        many days of fruitless search the mine could not be found. He laid the blame
                        on his eyes, which he said were dimmed by age. He promised on his return
                        home to send his son, who was young, and who knew the exact spot, and would
                        disclose it to the company. But the son came not, and the great Blue Jacket
                        Mining Company never found its mine.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    DEATH OF WAWILLAWAY—TECUMSEH AS A PEACE-MAKER.
                    WE again find Tecumsch engaged in hunting, in the spring
                        of 1795, on Deer Creek. This occupation he carried on more as pastime than
                        as business. It is said of him, on the authority of those captives and
                        half-breeds who knew him well, that he was not avaricious, but that his
                        generosity was proverbial. The furs that he caught or the goods acquired by
                        exchange were dispensed with a bountiful hand. He did not hunt for the
                        purpose of bettering his fortunes, but from love for it as a manly and
                        soldierly employment, and as a means of furnishing food to those who were
                        not able to hunt for themselves. No doubt this generous temper had much to
                        do with the popularity he acquired among his people. While encamped on Deer
                        Creek, one of his brothers and several other young Shawnees proposed to
                        wager Tecumsch that they could each kill as many deer in three days as he
                        could. This wager was probably the result of that vain boasting to which the
                        Indians are greatly addicted, and which is not uncommon  among hunters of all kinds. Tecumseh accepted the challenge,
                        and they all repaired to the woods. When the time had expired, they all
                        returned with the skins of the deer in evidence of what success they had
                        had. The challengers had none of them more than twelve deer-skins, while
                        Tecumseh returned with about thirty. From this time he was generally
                        confessed the greatest hunter in his nation.
                    Wayne's treaty with the Indians of the North-West was finally
                        concluded at Greenville, in August, 1795. The Indians ceded at this time to
                        the whites a large tract of land in consideration of annuities.
                    During the summer of 1795, in which a large body of Indian lands was finally
                        ceded to the whites in exchange for annuities, Tecumseh began to form a new
                        band of his own and to call himself a chief. He did not attend
                        Wayne's council at Greenville, though he was certainly considered a
                        man of influence and importance in his nation, for after this treaty Blue
                        Jacket visited him on Deer Creek and told him the terms on which peace had
                        been made.
                    In the spring of 1796, Tecumseh and his followers moved to the Great Miami.
                        In this place they raised a crop of corn, moving the next fall to the upper
                        branches of the White Water, where, during the spring an summer of
                        1797, they raised another crop of corn. In 1798, Tecumseh received an
                        invitation  from the Delawares, part of whom
                        were residing on White River in Indiana, to take up his quarters in their
                        neighborhood. This invitation was accepted, and, like roving Shawnees that
                        they were, the band moved again. Here on the White River he remained for
                        several years peacefully occupied in hunting. During this time he was
                        steadily extending his influence among the different tribes, and adding to
                        his band of followers.
                    Some difficulties had grown up between the Indians and the settlers on Mad
                        River. In 1799, a council was held by them near the place where Urbana now
                        stands. Tecumseh, who with other Shawnee chiefs attended this council, is
                        said to have been the principal orator, and his speech was much admired for
                        its eloquence. The interpreter, Dechouset, said "that he found it
                        very difficult to translate the lofty flights of Tecumseh, although he was
                        as well acquainted with the Shawnee language as with the French, which was
                        his mother tongue." The Indian eloquence is often very striking and
                        remarkable, especially for its poetical element, which is well suited to
                        "children of nature," as they are styled. Single sentences
                        in the speeches of Indian orators often sparkle like gems, as for instance
                        the saying of a Winnebago chief, portraying the wrongs of his people in an
                        address to a government commissioner. 
                        "The very leaves of the forest," he cried, "drop
                        tears of pity on us as we walk beneath."
                    In 1803, the inhabitants of the Scioto Valley were thrown
                        into a panic which it took Tecumseh's eloquence to allay. Captain
                        Herrod, one of the first settlers, a man greatly beloved, was found dead and
                        scalped in the woods. This event put the whites, who had no confidence in
                        Indian fidelity to the treaty, into great consternation, though it was
                        believed by some to have been the deed of a certain white man who had a
                        grudge against the murdered Captain Herrod. The inhabitants of the
                            Scioto Valley, however, residing five and fifteen
                        miles apart, moved together, and in many instances built block-houses for
                        protection, while the citizens of Chillicothe collected for the purpose of
                        fortifying the town.
                    A wicked and wanton retaliation, attempted by some white men, greatly
                        increased the panic. Wawillaway, a Shawnee chief and an unwavering friend of
                        the whites, was one day returning from Old Town, where he had been for the
                        purpose of trading off his game and skins. He was an Indian of sober habits,
                        brave and intelligent, and well-known among the whites.
                    He was met in the trail by an old hunter and settler appropriately named Wolf
                        and two men whom Wolf had hired to go with him to his farm. Wawillaway  shook hands with them cordially, and asked
                        after their health and that of their families. Wolf then proposed to
                        exchange guns with the Indian. While they were examining each
                        other's guns with reference to an exchange, he secretly took the
                        priming from that of the chief and returned it, saying he would not trade.
                        The white men then asked if the Indians had begun war.
                    "No, no!" said Wawillaway, "the Indians and white
                        men are now all one—all brothers."
                    Wolf asked him if he had heard that the Indians had killed Captain Herrod.
                        Wawillaway seemed much surprised at this story, and doubted its truth. On
                        being assured, however, that it was true, he said,
                    "May be whisky, too much drink, was the cause of the
                        quarrel."
                    "Herrod had no quarrel with the Indians, nor is it known by whom he
                        was killed," said Wolf.
                    "May be some bad white man kill Captain Herrod," suggested
                        the Indian. Wawillaway now shook hands all round and turned to go, when he
                        was shot from behind and mortally wounded by the dastardly white man. The
                        brave Shawnee turned upon his assailants, killed one of them, and wounded
                        Wolf and the other man severely before he died. When this occurrence became
                        known it greatly augmented the 
                        
                         excitement. The whites fled in one direction,
                        and the Indians, equally alarmed, in another.
                    In consequence of this distressing excitement some prominent citizens rode
                        into the Indian country near Greenville. Here they found a large body of
                        Indians, and among them Tecumseh. A council was held with these Indians, and
                        the whites frankly related all the circumstances connected with the death of
                        Herrod and Wawillaway. The Indians denied having any knowledge of these
                        things, and declared their intention of standing by the treaty which had
                        been made at that place. Tecumseh at last agreed to return with the white
                        men and make these peaceful declarations in person to the settlers. On their
                        arrival, a day was appointed when this chief should address all the people.
                        A white man, who had been a prisoner among the Indians, acted as
                        interpreter. An immense throng gathered to hear Tecumseh's speech,
                        which was, even when translated, full of telling and eloquent passages.
                    He spoke in the strongest language of the friendly relations existing between
                        the Indians and their white brethren, and of the determination on the part
                        of the Indians to abide by this treaty forever. He hoped that it would be
                        kept inviolate by both parties, and that brotherly love would be as long and
                        lasting as time between the white man and the Indian. When  Tecumseh closed, the sachems shook hands to
                        express the friendship and fellowship existing between the two people. After
                        this speech of Tecumseh, whose tall, commanding figure and noble dignity
                        impressed all who saw him, the people returned contented to their quiet
                        homes. It seems a pity that Tecumseh should ever have held other views about
                        the treaty at Greenville, than those expressed in Chillicothe.
                    It is the right and duty of the nearest of kin among the Indians, to kill the
                        murderer of their relative, unless he purchase his life at a price agreed
                        upon by the family. The two sons of Wawillaway had therefore vowed vengeance
                        upon Wolf. He, however, moved to Kentucky, and employed an agent to make
                        terms with the young men. This agent finally agreed to furnish each son with
                        a horse, a new saddle and bridle, and a new rifle, and they, on their part,
                        though not without much debate and hesitation, agreed to bury the tomahawk
                        and make peace with the murderer and his family forever.
                    At the time fixed for the fulfillment of this contract, a large gathering of
                        people assembled at Old Town to see the Indian ceremonies. Rev. J. B.
                        Finley, at one time an Indian missionary, thus describes the scene:
                        "A hollow square was formed, in which were Wolf and his horses and
                        trappings and the two  young men. The Indians,
                        in relinquishing their claim to the life of the murderer, raised their hands
                        toward heaven invoking the Great Spirit, declaring that to Him alone they
                        transferred the blood and life of Wolf, forfeited by the death of their
                        father. The scene was full of the most impressive solemnity, and many were
                        moved to tears. In token of their forgiveness, they advanced and took Wolf
                        by the hand—the same bloody hand which sent their beloved father to the
                        grave and made them orphans. Then saluting him as a brother, they lighted
                        the calumet, or pipe of peace, and smoked with him in the presence of the
                        Great Spirit. They remained good friends ever afterward, and often visited
                        each other."
                    During this year a stalwart Kentuckian came to Ohio to explore the lands on
                        Mad River. He stopped over night at the house of Captain Abner Barrett,
                        living on the head waters of Buck Creek. He was evidently startled to hear
                        that there were Indians encamped in the immediate neighborhood. Soon after
                        learning this, the door of the dwelling was suddenly opened and the noble
                        form of Tecumseh appeared. He walked in with his usual stately dignity and
                        looked around him in silence. His eye soon lit upon the alarmed Kentuckian,
                        who was showing the greatest agitation. Tecumseh regarded him a moment, and
                        then turning to Barrett exclaimed, 
                        "A big baby! a big baby!" He then walked up to the
                        frightened fellow and patting him gently on the shoulder repeated
                        contemptuously, "Big baby! big baby!" increasing the alarm
                        of the poor man, to the great amusement of those present.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    THE RISE OF THE PROPHET.
                    THE immense tract of land between the Ohio and Mississippi
                        rivers, now divided into many states, constituted the old North-western
                        Territory. In 1801, the State of Ohio was formed out of this, and the
                        remainder was called the Indiana Territory. Of this territory William Henry
                        Harrison was appointed governor. There were then but three settlements in
                        the territory, and these were widely separated. The first was on a grant of
                        one hundred and fifty thousand acres at the Falls of the Ohio, made to
                        General George Rogers Clark's successful troops; the second, the
                        old French settlement at Vincennes, and the third, the old settlement
                        between Kaskaskia and Cahokia on the Mississippi. The whole of this vast
                        territory then contained but five thousand people. Tecumseh's
                        brother, the Prophet, now for the first time comes into notice. The earlier
                        and latter parts of his life were passed in entire obscurity. He is only
                        prominent during the time his notoriety as a prophet served to further
                        Tecumseh's ambitious scheme. The Prophet is called by many
                        different  names, or modifications of the same
                        name. His earlier name was Laulewasikaw, or the Loud Voice, possibly in
                        reference to his self-assertion and boastfulness, as much as to his really
                        stentorian voice.
                    Long before he divulged it to his followers, Tecumseh may have meditated his
                        plan for gathering the red men into a great confederacy, driving the whites
                        back across the Ohio, or at least arresting their further progress, and thus
                        preventing that extinction of the Indian race which he so much dreaded. Or,
                        shall we regard him as an ambitious leader whose ambition grew with his
                        increasing influence and success?
                    In 1805, a part of the Shawnees were living at the Tawa villages, at the head
                        of the Auglaize River. Wishing to unite their scattered nation, they sent a
                        deputation to Tecumseh's party on White River, and to another party
                        of Shawnees on the Mississinnewa, inviting them to move to the Tawa towns
                        and there join their brethren. Both of the companies thus invited resolved
                        to accept the invitation. They immediately set out for the Tawa villages,
                        but at Greenville the two parties met, and through Laulewasikaw's
                        influence they decided to remain at that place. It seems likely that
                        Tecumseh was behind Laulewasikaw in this, seeing in it a chance to increase
                        the number of his followers. Laulewasikaw impressed  all who knew him with his craftiness; Tecumseh's
                        shrewdness must have been of a much deeper and more far-seeing kind, and it
                        was hidden under a noble dignity and reserve.
                    About this time there died an old Shawnee Indian by the name of Penagashega,
                        or The-Change-of-Feathers, "who had for some years been engaged in
                        the respectable calling of a prophet." Laulewasikaw, who had seen
                        the old prophet's influence with the Indians for some time, now
                        began himself to receive communications from the Great Spirit, and announced
                        himself a prophet in place of the departed Change-of-Feathers. Prophet-wise,
                        he assumed a new name, that of Tenskwatawa, which signifies "The
                        Open Door." This name pointed him out as a means of deliverance to
                        his people, and indicated the new way he undertook to show forth in his
                        teachings.
                    The Prophet is not an uncommon institution among the Indians. Every body of
                        Indians has its medicineman. Prophecy, however, seems to be somewhat higher
                        than the calling of the medicineman, who is a sort of juggler,
                        superstition-monger, exorcist, and curer of diseases by
                        means of "pow-wows," mysterious incantations, and solemn
                        humbuggery. A prophet adds to this the character of a seer and a
                        moral-reformer among his people.
                    We have already mentioned that more than a century  before the times of Tecumseh the Indians at Conestoga, part of
                        whom were Shawnees, had among them a venerable prophetess, whom they took
                        with them to all their councils, and to whom they paid great respect. During
                        Schoolcraft's residence among the Chippewas, he found the widow of
                        a man named Soangageshick, or "Strong Sky," who followed
                        the profession of prophetess, or jossakeed. The jossakeed enters a lodge
                        which is closed up, and from this utters oracular things, like an ancient
                        pythoness or a modern "trance-medium." Of another prophet,
                        Schoolcraft says that he was "a tall, not portly, red-mouthed and
                        pucker-mouthed man, with an unusual amount of cunning and sagacity, and
                        exercising an unlimited popularity by his skill and reputation as a
                        jossakeed or seer." This man, like Mohammed, Brigham Young, and
                        other prophets, practiced polygamy, having three wives. The better to
                        impress his clients, he "had an elaborately-built seer's
                        lodge, sheathed with rolls of bark carefully and skillfully united, and
                        stained black inside. Its construction, which was intricate, resembled the
                        whorls of a sea-shell. The white prints of a man's hand, as if
                        smeared with white clay, were impressed on the black surface. I have never
                        witnessed so complete a piece of Indian architectural structure, nor one
                        more worthy of the name of a temple of darkness."
                    
                    That the curious reader may understand what the seer's office was at
                        the time of the setting up of "The Open Door," and may see
                        how far the office of prophet was modified by him, we give another instance.
                        One Rue was made captive in 1781. He was at Detroit, and meditating plans of
                        escape. During the drunken revels of the tribes gathered at the
                        trading-house there, an Indian lost a purse containing ninety dollars in
                        silver. Great excitement ensued; there were many accusations and
                        recriminations among them, and the tribes became so far exasperated toward
                        each other as to threaten the use of knives and tomahawks, when the
                        announcement was made that there was a prophet present who belonged to none
                        of the bands engaged in the wrangle. Order was immediately established,
                        while this prophet undertook to detect the thief by conjuration. Very
                        solemnly he unrolled a deer-skin, which he spread upon the ground with the
                        flesh side up. He then emptied upon it a little bag of fine sand which he
                        drew from his belt. With a magic wand he spread this smoothly upon the skin.
                        The crowd were now watching with eager, awe-struck faces. The prophet gazed
                        steadily at the sand for several moments, and then muttered some
                        inarticulate words. Taking another long look, he exclaimed: "I see
                        the thief and the stolen treasure." The prophet was pressed to tell
                             who the culprit was, but this he
                        benevolently refused to do, declaring that he feared that the information
                        would lead to the extermination of one or more tribes before the matter
                        ended. It was very improper, he said, to divulge a fact that might produce
                        results so disastrous as he foresaw. He said, however, that none of those
                        who had been accused were guilty, but it was a member of a tribe other than
                        those embroiled in the quarrel. He thus shrewdly restored harmony among the
                        Indians. Rue and his companions now resolved to question the fortune-teller
                        regarding their friends at home. They visited him in private, and, paying
                        the fee, seated themselves around the deer-skin. After a long silence the
                        prophet announced that he saw Rue's family passing through the
                        door-yard, and gave their number, sex, age, and appearance so well as to
                        incline Rue to believe him a real wizard.
                    "You two intend to make your escape, and you will effect it
                        soon," said the soothsayer, raising his eyes. Looking again into
                        the sandy future, he said,
                    "You will meet many trials and hardships in passing over so wild a
                        district of country, inhabited by so many hostile nations of Indians. You
                        will almost starve to death, but about the time you have given up all hope
                        of finding game to sustain you in your famished condition, succor will come
                        when you least  expect it. I see dimly the
                        carcass of some wild animal taken as game; what it is I can't
                        clearly see. It will be of the male sex. After that you will find plenty of
                        game, and will arrive safely at your homes."
                    These things are said to have indeed happened to the fugitive captives pretty
                        nearly according to the Indian's prophecy.
                    But Laulewasikaw took hints from the missionaries, and got many things from
                        the Shakers. He did not mutter from a darkened lodge, nor tell fortunes with
                        sand. He was a preaching prophet.
                    In November, 1805, our Shawnee prophet gathered together quite an assembly of
                        his own nation, with many Wyandots, Ottawas, and Senecas,
                        at Wapakonetta, on the Auglaize River, in Northern Ohio, where he made them
                        a speech declaring his new vocation. In this address he harangued against
                        witchcraft, a thing very much believed in by the Indians. He said that all
                        those who practiced it or remained bewitched would not go to heaven or see
                        the Great Spirit. He next denounced drunkenness most vehemently. He said
                        that since he had become a prophet he had gone up into the clouds, and the
                        first place he came to was the dwelling of the Devil. Here he saw all who
                        had died drunkards, with flames of fire issuing from their mouths. He  admitted that previous to this he had himself
                        been a drunkard, but his vision had frightened him so that he drank no more.
                        He then preached with a good deal of earnestness against Indian women
                        intermarrying with the whites, saying this was one of the causes of their
                        unhappiness. He proposed community of property—an adjustment of things
                        which would well have suited this indolent reformer. He also preached that
                        which Tecumseh so constantly practiced—the duty of the young at all times
                        supporting and cherishing the aged and infirm. He denounced innovations in
                        the dress and habits of the red man, and appealed to their national pride by
                        boasting of the superiority of the Shawnees over any other nation. He
                        promised to those who would follow him and obey his injunctions all the
                        comfort and happiness enjoyed by their ancestors before the advent of the
                        whites among them. He closed by announcing the power which had been given
                        him by the Great Spirit to confound his enemies, to cure all diseases, and
                        to p-vent death either from sickness or on the
                        battlefield.
                    From this opening speech we can judge of the nature of his teachings. We can
                        see that his doctrines were many of them wild and fanatical, while the
                        denunciations of drunkenness and of the assumption of the habits and dress
                        of the whites by the  Indians agreed with the
                        well known opinions of Tecumseh. The natural boastfulness of the Prophet is
                        shown in his claims to supernatural power, which were well calculated to
                        excite the superstitious mind of the savage. The Prophet was even a better
                        speaker than his brother; and though his face as shown in his portrait is
                        certainly not attractive, it is said that his manner was more graceful than
                        that of any other Indian. Without Tecumseh's dignity, he is said to
                        have possessed more persuasion and plausibility. He certainly possessed none
                        of the noble qualities of his brother. His main characteristics were cunning
                        and a certain showy smartness. He was neither courageous, truthful, nor
                        above cruelty. It is, however, very probable that he believed even more
                        firmly in himself than did any of his followers. As is often the case with
                        impostors, he may have succeeded in deceiving himself more completely even
                        than he deceived his fellows. Some of his preaching shows the influence of
                        the white man's opinions upon him. It is believed that he picked up
                        some scraps of his system from the Shakers, who made their advent into Ohio
                        at this time.
                    President Jefferson wrote his opinion of Laulewasikaw after the close of his
                        administration, to his predecessor, ex-President Adams. He said:
                        "The Wabash Prophet is more rogue than fool, if to be a  rogue is not the greatest of all follies. He
                        rose to notice while I was in the administration, and became, of course, a
                        proper subject for me. The inquiry was made with diligence. His declared
                        object was the reformation of his red brethren, and their return to their
                        pristine manners of living. He pretended to be in constant communication
                        with the Great Spirit; that he was instructed by Him to make known to the
                        Indians that they were created by Him distinct from the whites, of different
                        natures, for different purposes, and placed under different circumstances,
                        adapted to their nature and destinies; that they must return from all the
                        ways of the whites to the habits and opinions of their forefathers; they
                        must not eat the flesh of hogs, of bullocks, of sheep, &c., the deer
                        and the buffalo having been created for their food; they must not make bread
                        of wheat, but of Indian corn; they must not wear linen nor woolen, but must
                        dress like their fathers, in the skins and furs of animals; they must not
                        drink ardent spirits; and I do not remember whether he extended his
                        inhibitions to the gun and gunpowder, in favor of the bow and arrow. I
                        concluded from all this that he was a visionary, enveloped in their
                        antiquities, and vainly endeavoring to lead back his brethren to the fancied
                        beatitudes of their golden age. I thought there was little danger of his
                        making many proselytes from the habits and 
                        comforts they had learned from the whites, to the hardships and privations
                        of savagism, and no great harm if he did. But his followers increased until
                        the British thought him worth corrupting, and found him corruptible. I
                        suppose his views were then changed; but his proceedings in consequence of
                        them were after I left the administration, and are therefore unknown to me;
                        nor have I ever been informed what were the particular acts on his part
                        which produced an actual commencement of hostilities on ours. I have no
                        doubt, however, that the subsequent proceedings are but a chapter apart,
                        like that of Henry and Lord Liverpool, in the book of the Kings of
                        England."
                    There can be no doubt that the Prophet really sought the good of his people.
                        With all his vanity, deception, superstition, and craft, he no doubt
                        believed in the beneficial tendency of the measures he advocated. This is
                        quite consistent with the opinion that he had ambitious projects in assuming
                        the character of a prophet, and that Tecumseh's gradually
                        developing schemes had much to do with the Prophet's plans.
                    His influence soon began to show itself. Many followers gathered around him,
                        most of whom were young men and persons of wild and adventurous tendencies
                        from the various tribes. It is stated that 
                        they entirely abstained from strong drink, and in many other ways practiced
                        their leader's precepts. Opposition was naturally made to the
                        innovations of the new prophet by the neighboring chiefs, who felt that he
                        sought to undermine their power. An inquisition was now introduced by
                        Tenskwatawa. A course of fanatical persecution for witchcraft was begun,
                        shocking indeed in its cruelty and injustice, but only too much resembling
                        something which occurred in Salem, among people of our own enlightened
                        race.
                    The superstition of the Indians was so great that if the Prophet denounced
                        some chief who opposed him, as a witch, a loss of reputation and perhaps of
                        life ensued. Several Delawares were among the first victims. An old woman
                        was burned to death, being called upon many times by the Indians to give up
                        her charm and medicine bag. As she was dying, she exclaimed that her
                        grandson who was out hunting had it. He was pursued, tied, and brought into
                        camp. He confessed that he had borrowed the charm, and by means of it had
                        flown through the air, over Kentucky to the banks of the Mississippi and
                        back again between twilight and bedtime. He insisted that he had returned
                        the charm, however, and was finally released. The following day a very old
                        chief named Teteboxti was sentenced at a council held for the purpose, at
                        which he was present.  Knowing there was no
                        escape, he arrayed himself in his finest clothes and calmly assisted in the
                        building of his own funeral pile. In consideration of his age, the
                        white-haired chief was treated mercifully, being killed before his body was
                        burned. An old "preacher" called Joshua—probably a
                        Christian convert—next met the same fate. A council was held over the wife
                        of Teteboxti and his nephew, Billy Patterson. The latter died like a
                        Christian, singing and praying. Preparations were then made for the burning
                        of Teteboxti's wife, when her brother, a young man of twenty,
                        suddenly started up and bravely led her by the hand out of the house. He
                        returned to the amazed council, and said "The Devil,"
                        (alluding to the Prophet) "has come amongst us, and we are killing
                        each other." He then reseated himself. This seemed to awaken the
                        Indians to a realization of what they were doing, and put a stop for a time
                        to further persecutions among the Delawares, while it gave a check to the
                        influence of the Prophet.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    THE BAND AT GREENVILLE—THE PROPHET IN COUNCIL.
                    AS soon as Governor Harrison heard of this witch. craft
                        delusion, he sent to the Delaware Indians the following
                        "speech" or letter, by a special messenger:—
                    "MY CHILDREN: My heart is filled with grief, and my eyes are
                        dissolved in tears at the news which has reached me. You have been
                        celebrated for your wisdom above all the tribes of the red people who
                        inhabit this great island. Your fame as warriors has extended to the
                        remotest nations, and the wisdom of your chiefs has gained you the
                        appellation of grandfathers from all the neighboring tribes. From what
                        cause, then, does it proceed that you have departed from the wise counsels
                        of your fathers and covered yourselves with guilt? My children, tread back
                        the steps you have taken, and endeavor to regain the straight road which you
                        have abandoned. The dark, crooked, and thorny one which you are now pursuing
                        will certainly lead to endless woe and misery. But who is this pretended
                        prophet who dares to speak  in the name of the
                        great Creator? Examine him. Is he more wise and virtuous than you are
                        yourselves, that he should be selected to convey to you the orders of your
                        God? Demand of him some proofs at least of his being the messenger of the
                        Deity. If God has really employed him, He has doubtless authorized him to
                        perform miracles that he may be known and received as a prophet. If he is
                        really a prophet, ask of him to cause the sun to stand still, the moon to
                        alter its course, the rivers to cease to flow, or the dead to rise from
                        their graves. If he does these things, you may believe that he has been sent
                        from God. He tells you that the Great Spirit commands you to punish with
                        death those who deal in magic, and that he is authorized to point them out.
                        Wretched delusion! Is then the Master of Life obliged to employ mortal man
                        to punish those who offend Him? Has He not the thunder and the power of
                        nature at His command? And could He not sweep away from the earth a whole
                        nation with one motion of his arm? My children, do not believe that the
                        great and good Creator of mankind has directed you to destroy your own
                        flesh; and do not doubt that if you pursue this abominable wickedness His
                        vengeance will overtake you and crush you.
                    "The above is addressed to you in the name of the Seventeen Fires. I
                        now speak to you from myself,  as a friend who
                        wishes nothing more sincerely than to see you prosperous and happy. Clear
                        your eyes, I beseech you, from the mist which surrounds them. No longer be
                        imposed upon by the arts of an impostor. Drive him from your town, and let
                        peace and harmony prevail amongst you. Let your poor old men and women sleep
                        in quietness, and banish from their minds the dreadful idea of being burnt
                        alive by their own friends and countrymen. I charge you to stop your bloody
                        career; and if you value the friendship of your great father, the President;
                        if you wish to preserve the good opinion of the Seventeen Fires, let me hear
                        by the return of the bearer that you have determined to follow my
                        advice."
                    It is necessary to explain that by "Seventeen Fires" is
                        meant the United States, which consisted at that time of seventeen states,
                        or council-fires in the Indian mode of speaking.
                    There is no evidence that Tecumseh was in favor of this persecution for
                        witchcraft, and one authority asserts that he was opposed to it, though it
                        is not unlikely that he was quite willing to serve his ends by the
                        Prophet's reign of terror.
                    The Prophet lost many followers among the Shawnees at this time, there being
                        only about forty of that nation left in his village. He was not so
                        successful in gaining an ascendency among the Miamis  as he was with the Delawares, in whose midst he had lived for
                        some years. During the year 1806, however, the Prophet and Tecumseh were
                        established at Greenville, where they were visited by very many Indians, so
                        that they again greatly augmented the strength of their band of followers.
                        The Prophet exercised his gifts with diligence, seeing visions and dreaming
                        dreams. It is probable that he had heard beforehand from the whites of the
                        great colipse of the sun which was to occur in 1806.
                        Governor Harrison's challenge that he should work wonders was an
                        unfortunate one, for nothing is easier than miracles wrought among ignorant
                        and credulous people. He boldly announced to his followers that on a certain
                        day he would make darkness come over the sun as proof of his supernatural
                        power. Accordingly at the time appointed, the Prophet, standing in the midst
                        of his party at midday, cried out, when all grew dark, "Did I not
                        prophesy truly? Behold! darkness has shrouded the sun!" This
                        incident, of course, made a great impression on the Indian mind, and
                        established the belief in his right to the claim of intercourse with the
                        Great Spirit.
                    About April, 1807, great alarm began to be felt on the frontier. At this time
                        the Prophet had gathered near four hundred Indians around him. These savages
                        were greatly excited by religious fanaticism, 
                        and were ready, it was believed, to join any enterprise into which the
                        brothers should lead them. Several efforts were made to learn the objects of
                        the leaders in gathering together so many warriors, but without success. The
                        Indian agent at Fort Wayne, William Wells, sent Anthony Shane, a half-blood
                        Shawnee, to them, with a request that Tecumseh and the Prophet, with two of
                        their other chiefs, should visit him at Fort Wayne, in order that he might
                        read to them a letter which he had just received from their great father,
                        the President of the United States.
                    A council was called, and Shane delivered his message. Tecumseh, who seems
                        now to have risen to the first place in the band, leaving his brother to
                        play Aaron to his Moses, arose, without consulting any other member of the
                        council, and, with an assumption of kingly dignity, said, "Go back
                        to Fort Wayne, and tell Captain Wells that my fire is kindled on the spot
                        appointed by the Great Spirit above; and if he has anything to communicate
                        to me, he must come here. I shall expect
                        him in six days from this time."
                    With this message Shane was obliged to return to the Indian agent, who, not
                        feeling inclined to wait on Tecumseh in person, sent Shane back at the
                        appointed time with a copy of the President's communication. The
                        substance of this was that they were  desired
                        to remove from where they were established, it being within the limits of
                        the purchase from the Indians. If they would move beyond the boundaries
                        agreed upon at the treaty of Greenville, assistance would be given them by
                        the government until they were established in their new home. This was all
                        carefully interpreted to the Indians at a council which was assembled for
                        the purpose.
                    Tecumseh's dignity was much offended that Captain Wells had not
                        visited him in person. He arose, and turning to his followers, deeply
                        excited, made them a long, fiery, and eloquent speech, in which he spoke of
                        the injuries the red men had received from the whites and of their constant
                        encroachments. He closed with these words: "These lands are ours;
                        no one has a right to remove us, because we were the first owners; the Great
                        Spirit above has appointed this place for us on which to light our fires,
                        and here we will remain. As to boundaries, the Great Spirit above knows no
                        boundaries, nor will his red people know any."
                    He paused a moment, and then turning with dignified indifference to the
                        messenger, he said:—
                    "If my father, the President of the Seventeen Fires, has anything
                        more to say to me, he must send a man of note as his messenger. I will hold
                        no further intercourse with Captain Wells."
                    
                    The Prophet then rose and spoke in the same lofty and defiant strain, doing
                        also some personal bragging on his own account: "Why does not the
                        President of the Seventeen Fires send us the greatest man in his nation? I
                        can talk to him—I can bring darkness between him and me; nay, more, I can
                        bring the sun under my feet; and what white man can do this?"
                    The stir among the Indians went on increasing, and at the last of May it was
                        estimated that so many as fifteen hundred Indians had passed and repassed
                        Fort Wayne on visits to the Prophet. Many of these were from very remote
                        nations. There was a great assembling of councils; messengers were sent from
                        tribe to tribe with pipes and belts of wampum, and it was evident that some
                        uncommon movement was afoot. English agents were also known to be very
                        active in assisting in the excitement, while the object of all this was kept
                        entirely secret from the Americans and friendly Indian chiefs. It was
                        estimated by those familiar with Indian affairs, that in the month of August
                        the Prophet and Tecumseh had gained the leadership of seven or eight hundred
                        Indians at Fort Wayne and Greenville. Many of these were armed with new
                        rifles.
                    These facts coming to the knowledge of the governor of Ohio, he sent Thomas
                        Worthington and  Duncan McArthur to Greenville
                        to hold a council with the Prophet and Tecumseh, in order to inquire what
                        was their intention in assembling so large a body of Indians within the
                        limits of the land they had already ceded to the United States in 1795.
                        These commissioners were courteously received, and a general council of the
                        Indians was called, at which Stephen Ruddell, who had lived among them
                        seventeen years and understood the Shawnee tongue, acted as interpreter. The
                        governor's letter was first read and interpreted in the Shawnee,
                        Pottawatomic, and Chippewa languages. The commissioners then made a speech
                        referring to the relations existing between the Indians and the United
                        States in the past, Great Britain's policy toward the latter, and
                        the importance of the Indians remaining neutral in the event of a war
                        between these two nations.
                    The council was continued the following day, when it was announced that the
                        Shawnee chief, Blue Jacket, who was authorized by all the Indians present to
                        speak for them, would answer the commissioners.
                    "Brethren," said Blue Jacket, "we are seated who
                        heard you yesterday. You will get a true relation, as far as we and our
                        connections can give it, who are as follows: Shawnees, Wyandots,
                        Pottawatomies, Tawas, Chippewas, Winnepaus, Malominese, Malockese,
                        Secawgoes, and one more from the north  of the
                        Chippewas. Brethren, you see all these men sitting before you who now speak
                        to you.
                    "About eleven days ago we had a council at which the tribe of
                        Wyandots, the elder brother of the red people, spoke and said, God had
                        kindled a fire, and all sat around it. In this council we talked over the
                        treaties with the French and the Americans. The Wyandots said, the French
                        formerly marked a line along the Alleghany Mountains, southerly to
                        Charleston (S. C.). No man was to pass it from either side. When the
                        Americans came to settle over the line, the English told the Indians to
                        unite and drive off the French, until the war came on between the British
                        and Americans, when it was told them that King George, by his officers,
                        directed them to unite and drive the Americans back.
                    "After the treaty of peace between the English and the Americans,
                        the summer before Wayne's army came out, the English held a council
                        with the Indians, and told them if they would unite as one man, they might
                        surround the Americans like deer in a ring of fire and destroy them all. The
                        Wyandot spoke further in the council. We see, said he, there is like to be
                        war between the English and our white brethren, the Americans. Let us unite
                        and consider the sufferings we have undergone from interfering in the wars
                        of the English. They have often promised  to
                        help us, and at last, when we could not withstand the army that came upon
                        us, and went to the English fort for refuge, the English told us, `I cannot
                        let you in; you are painted too much, my children.' It was then we
                        saw the English dealt treacherously with us. We now see them going to war
                        again. We do not know what they are going to fight for. Let us, my brethren,
                        not interfere, was the speech of the Wyandot.
                    "Further, the Wyandot said, I speak to you, my little brother, the
                        Shawnee at Greenville, and to you our little brothers all around. You appear
                        to be at Greenville to serve the Supreme Ruler of the Universe. Now send
                        forth your speeches to all our brethren far around us, and let us unite to
                        seek for that which shall be for our eternal welfare, and unite ourselves in
                        a band of perpetual brotherhood. These, brethren, are the sentiments of all
                        the men who sit around you; they all adhere to what the elder brother, the
                        Wyandot, has said, and these are their sentiments. It is not that they are
                        afraid of their white brethren, but that they desire peace and harmony, and
                        not that their white brethren could put them to great necessity, for their
                        former arms were bows and arrows by which they got their
                        living."
                    The commissioners made some explanations in 
                        reply to the speech of Blue Jacket. They were then told that the Prophet
                        would tell the reasons why the Indians had established themselves at
                        Greenville. "He then proceeded to inform us," say the
                        commissioners in their report, "that about three years since he
                        became convinced of the error of his ways, and that he would be destroyed
                        from the face of the earth if he did not amend them; that it was soon after
                        known to him what he should do to be right; that from that time he
                        constantly preached to his red brethren the miserable situation they were in
                        by nature, and endeavored to convince them that they must change their
                        lives, live honestly, and be just in all their dealings; kind toward one
                        another and their white brethren; affectionate toward their families; put
                        away lying and slandering, and serve the Great Spirit in the way He had
                        pointed out; never think of war again; that the Lord did not give them the
                        tomahawk to go to war with one another. His red brethren, the chiefs of the
                        Shawnees at Tawa town, would not listen to him, but persecuted him. This
                        produced a division in the nation; those who adhered to him separated
                        themselves from their brethren at Tawa town, removed with him, and settled
                        where he now was, and where he had constantly preached the above doctrine to
                        all the strangers who came to see them. They did not remove to this place
                        because  it was a pretty place or very
                        valuable, for it was neither, but because it was revealed to him that the
                        place was a proper one to establish his doctrines; that he meant to adhere
                        to them while he lived; they were not his own, nor were they taught him by
                        man, but by the Supreme Ruler of the Universe; that his future life should
                        prove to his brethren the sincerity of his professions. He then told us that
                        six chiefs should go with us to Chillicothe."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    TECUMSEH'S DEFIANT SPEECHES.
                    ACCORDING to the Prophet's promise, four
                        chiefs—Tecumseh, Blue Jacket, Roundhead, and Panther—returned with the
                        commissioners to the seat of government in Ohio. Here they remained about a
                        week, during which time a council was held. Curiously enough, Tecumseh, who
                        seems to have reserved his eloquence for some one of more importance than
                        the commissioners, was the principal speaker at this conference held with
                        the governor of Ohio. He at one time spoke for three hours. In this speech
                        he undertook to prove the nullity of the treaties under which the Americans
                        claimed any land north and west of the Ohio. He reviewed all the treaties of
                        the whites with the Western tribes in their order, and showed a thorough
                        knowledge of them. He denied their validity with great bitterness and scorn,
                        and boldly declared his intention of resisting any further encroachments of
                        the whites. While he so frankly stated his opinions, he still disavowed any
                        intention of making war on the whites.
                    Tecumseh's eloquence is highly spoken of by  those who heard this speech. "The utterance of the
                        speaker was rapid and vehement; his manner bold and commanding; his gestures
                        impassioned, quick, and violent, his countenance indicating that there was
                        something more in his mind struggling for utterance than he deemed it
                        prudent to express." The governor was satisfied at the close of
                        this council that there was no immediate danger to be feared from these
                        Indians at Greenville and Fort Wayne, and disbanded the militia which had
                        been called into service.
                    In the fall of 1807, new apprehensions arose in consequence of the murder of
                        a white man near the spot where Urbana now stands, by some straggling
                        Indians. This event, and the fact that so many Indians were assembled under
                        the Prophet, produced a great alarm on the frontier, which led many families
                        to return to Kentucky. The whites made a demand on Tecumseh and the Prophet
                        for the murderers. They, however, denied any knowledge of the affair. In
                        order to quiet the increasing disturbance, it was finally agreed that a
                        council should be held at Springfield.
                    In this council, which included in all nearly three hundred Indians, were
                        present two parties—one from the north and that of Tecumseh, consisting of
                        sixty or seventy warriors, including Roundhead,  Blackfish, and several other chiefs. Between these two parties some
                        jealousy existed, and each was willing that the other should be blamed with
                        the murder. The commissioners wished the Indians to leave their arms a few
                        miles outside of Springfield. With this request the northern party complied,
                        but Tecumseh, who was never willing to appear in any council without proper
                        dignity, refused. The conference was held in a maple grove. After it was
                        opened, the commissioners, who feared some violence, renewed their efforts
                        to induce Tecumseh to lay aside his arms. He refused again, saying his
                        tomahawk was also his pipe, and he might wish to use it as such before they
                        closed their session. (The tomahawk had a pipe-bowl on the back.) At this
                        point a long, lank Pennsylvanian, who was among the spectators, approaching
                        Tecumseh with great caution, handed him his pipe, a long-stemmed,
                        dirty-looking earthen affair, intimating that Tecumseh might smoke it if he
                        would deliver up the dreadful tomahawk. The kingly chief took it between his
                        thumb and finger, held it up, looked at it and then at the owner, who was
                        cautiously backing away, and then threw it with an indignant sneer over his
                        head into the bushes.
                    The oldest chief present, Tarfee, or the Crane, who was head chief of the
                        Wyandots, took charge of the opening ceremonies in the council. The  chiefs and braves were seated in a semicircle
                        in front of the agent's stand. The peace-pipe was passed round in
                        token of good-will. The old chief of the Wyandots and the chief of the
                        Ottawas replied in a conciliatory tone, and all seemed to be going on toward
                        a peaceful termination. But unhappily Tecumseh's part was no longer
                        that of peace-maker. The growth of his ambitious plans involved the keeping
                        alive of hostile feeling towards the whites; and no doubt the hatred of his
                        childhood and the conflicts of his early manhood had left a deep and bitter
                        antagonism in his mind. Just at this moment of reconciliation he rose and
                        made a speech of fiery eloquence, tracking the history of the relations of
                        the two races from the first settlements to his own time. So tremendous was
                        the effect of this defiant oratory, that the younger warriors were hardly
                        able to keep their seats in the council, and even the old men, who sat
                        smoking, showed the greatest excitement, so that the immediate breaking up
                        of the council seemed imminent. Tecumseh, when he had closed, turned his
                        back on the agent's stand and walked to the remotest part of the
                        semicircle, where he took his seat among the young braves. Here again, as
                        elsewhere, the interpreter was obliged to confess his inability to put
                        Tecumseh's speech into a foreign tongue. There were some parts that
                        he  purposely omitted, fearing that General
                        Simon Kenton, who was one of the agents at this council, would not brook
                        words that "were so defiant, so wrathful, so denunciatory, so full
                        of indignant abuse." But the speech was not meant for the agents,
                        but for the Indians. The shrewd Tecumseh knew that all of the Indians
                        present would give admiring reports of his gallant defiance of the whites,
                        by every camp-fire. Thus his ascendency would be extended in other tribes.
                        He was not unlike the congressman whose speech is made for the
                        newspapers.
                    The council afterward became more conciliatory, and the affair was
                        settled.
                    During their stay at Springfield the Indians amused themselves several times
                        with games and athletic sports. In these Tecumseh was generally victorious.
                        Those who attended the council admired his splendid physical vigor almost as
                        much as his intellectual character.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    GENERAL HARRISON AND THE PROPHET.
                    WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON was born in Virginia, in the year 1773. His father,
                        Benjamin Harrison, was one of the signers of the Declaration of
                        Independence. When very young, Harrison was desirous of joining the Western
                        campaign under St. Clair. For this purpose, Washington, who had been an
                        intimate friend of his father, gave him an appointment.
                    He set out, at the age of nineteen, with the commission of ensign to join the
                        army, and arrived immediately after St. Clair's defeat. When
                        General Wayne came into control of the North-Western army he noticed the
                        spirit and wisdom of young Harrison, and appointed him one of his
                        aids-de-camp. In this capacity he fought in Wayne's campaign in
                        1794, and received flattering commendation from his commander.
                    On the death of General Wayne, in 1797, Harrison left the army and was
                        appointed secretary of the North-western Territory. He declined to allow his
                        name to be brought forward for the governorship,  because he was unwilling to be brought into competition with
                        St. Clair. In 1801, on the erection of the territory of Indiana, he was
                        appointed governor of the new territory, and ex-officio superintendent of
                        Indian affairs. He was made by President Jefferson sole commissioner for
                        treating with the Indians. It was thus that he came to be so nearly
                        connected with the history of Tecumseh.
                    The council with Tecumseh at Springfield in 1807 did not quiet the general
                        alarm on the frontier. Governor Harrison, in the autumn of this year, sent a
                        speech, by one of the Indian agents, named John Connor, to the head chiefs
                        of the Shawnees. These chiefs, and probably Tecumseh among them, were absent
                        from Greenville when the speech was delivered. The Prophet listened
                        patiently while it was read, as follows, to him:—
                    "MY CHILDREN: Listen to me. I speak in the name of your father, the
                        great chief of the Seventeen Fires.
                    "My children, it is now twelve years since the tomahawk, which you
                        had raised by the advice of your father, the King of Great Britain, was
                        buried at Greenville, in the presence of that great warrior, General
                        Wayne.
                    "My children, you then promised, and the Great Spirit heard it, that
                        you would in fuure live in  peace
                        and friendship with your brothers, the Americans. You made a treaty with
                        your father, and one that contained a number of good things, equally
                        beneficial to all the tribes of red people who were parties to it.
                    "My children, you promised in tat treaty to acknowledge no
                        other father than the chief of the Seventeen Fires, and never to listen to
                        the proposition of any foreign nation. You promised never to lift up the
                        tomahawk against any of your father's children, and to give notice
                        of any other tribe that intended it. Your father also promised to do
                        something for you, particularly to deliver to you every year a certain
                        quantity of goods, to prevent any white man from settling on your lands
                        without your consent, or to do you any personal injury. He promised to run a
                        line between your land and his, so that you might know your own; and you
                        were to be permitted to live and hunt upon your father's land as
                        long as you behaved yourselves well. My children, which of these articles
                        has your father broken? You know that he has observed them all with the
                        utmost good faith. But, my children, have you done so? Have you not always
                        had your ars open to receive bad advice from the white people
                        beyond the lakes?
                    "My children, let us look back to times that are past. It has been a
                        long time since you called the King of  Great
                        Britain father. You know that it is the duty of a father to watch over his
                        children, to give them good advice, and to do everything in his power to
                        make them happy. What has this father of yours done for you during the time
                        that you looked up to him for protection and advice? Are you wiser and
                        happier than you were before you knew him; or is your nation stronger or
                        more respectable? No, my children, he took you by the held when you were a
                        powerful tribe; you held him fast, supposing he was your friend, and he
                        conducted you through paths filled with thorns and briars, which tore your
                        flesh and shed your blood. Your strength was exhausted, and you could no
                        longer follow him. Did he stay by you in your distress and assist and
                        comfort you? No, he led you into dangers and then abandoned you. He saw your
                        blood flowing, and he would give you no bandage to tie up your wounds. This
                        was the conduct of the man who called himself your father. The Great Spirit
                        opened your eyes; you heard the voice of the chief of the Seventeen Fires
                        speaking words of peace. He called you to follow him; you came to him, and
                        he once more put you on the right way—on the broad, smooth road that would
                        have led to happiness. But the voice of your deceiver is again heard, and,
                        forgetful of your former sufferings, you are listening to him.
                    
                    "My children, shut your cars and mind him not, or he will lead you
                        to ruin and misery.
                    "My children, I have heard bad news. The sacred spot where the great
                        council-fire was kindled, around which the Seventeen Fires and ten tribes of
                        their children smoked the pipe of peace—that very spot where the Great
                        Spirit saw his red and white children encircle themselves with the chain of
                        friendship — that place has been selected for dark and bloody
                        councils.
                    "My children, this business must be stopped. You have called in a
                        number of men from the most distant tribes to listen to a fool, who speaks
                        not the words of the Great Spirit, but those of the devil and of the British
                        agents. My children, your conduct has much alarmed the white settlers near
                        you. They desire that you will send away those people, and if they wish to
                        have the impostor with them they can carry him. Let him go to the lakes; he
                        can hear the British more distinctly."
                    When the reading of this speech was finished, the Prophet dictated the
                        following answer:—
                    "Father, I am sorry that you listen to the advice of bad birds. You
                        have impeached me with having correspondence with the British, and with
                        calling and sending for Indians from the most distant part of the country,
                        `to listen to a fool that speaks not the 
                        words of the Great Spirit, but the words of the devil.' Father,
                        these impeachments I deny, and say they are not true. I never had a word
                        with the British, and I never sent for any Indians. They came here
                        themselves to listen and hear the words of the Great Spirit.
                    "Father, I wish you would not listen any more to the voice of bad
                        birds; and you may rest assured that it is the least of our idea to make
                        disturbance, and we will rather try to stop any such proceedings than to
                        encourage them."
                    A man by the name of John Tanner, who had been taken captive by the Indians
                        when a boy, was at this time among the Chippewas, or Ojibbeways, a nation
                        living then as now on Lake Superior and Lake Michigan, and known to all
                        readers of literature as the people made famous by Longfellow's
                        poem of Hiawatha. He gives an interesting account of the influence of the
                        Prophet's reputation over the superstitious mind of the Indian.
                    He says that news reached this distant people that the Shawnees had received
                        a revelation from the Great Spirit. A messenger brought this piece of
                        information, and appeared deeply impressed with the solemnity of his
                        mission. When he arrived he at first maintained a long and mysterious
                        silence before announcing that he was the forerunner of the great  Prophet, who would soon shake hands with the
                        Chippewas, reveal to them his inspired character, and set forth the new
                        manner of living which they were hereafter to adopt. He repeated the
                        doctrines of the Prophet to them, and solemnly enjoined the observance of
                        his system of morals. A strong impression was made by all this upon the
                        principal men among the Chippewas, and a time was appointed and a lodge
                        built, that the new doctrines might be accepted in public. When the Indians
                        had gathered in this lodge, "we saw something," says Mr.
                        Tanner, "carefully concealed under a blanket, in figure and
                        dimensions bearing some resemblance to a man. This was accompanied by two
                        young men, who, it was understood, attended constantly upon it, made its bed
                        at night, as for a man, and slept near it. But while we remained no one went
                        near it, or raised the blanket which was spread over its unknown contents.
                        Four strings of mouldy and discolored beads were all the visible insignia of
                        his important mission. After a long harangue, in which the prominent
                        features of the new revelation were stated and urged upon the attention of
                        all, the four strings of beads, which we were told were made of the flesh of
                        the Prophet, were carried with much solemnity to each man in the lodge, and
                        he was expected to take hold of each string at the top, and draw them gently
                             through his hand. This was called shaking
                        hands with the Prophet, and was considered as solemnly engaging to obey his
                        injunctions and accept of his mission as from the Supreme. All the Indians
                        who touched the beads had previously killed their dogs; they gave up their
                        medicine bags, and showed a disposition to comply with all that should be
                        required of them. The influence of the Prophet was very sensibly and
                        painfully felt by the remotest Ojibbeways of whom I had any knowledge, but
                        it was not the common impression among them that his doctrines had any
                        tendency to unite them in the accomplishment of any human purpose. For two
                        or three years, drunkenness was much less frequent than formerly, was less
                        thought of, and the entire aspect of things among them was changed by the
                        influence of this mission. But in time these new impressions were
                        obliterated, medicine bags, flints and steels, the use of which had been
                        forbidden, were brought into use; dogs were reared, women and children
                        beaten as before, and the Shawnee Prophet was despised."
                    Early in the year 1808, great numbers of Indians came flocking from the lakes
                        to visit the Prophet. With the characteristic improvidence of savages, they
                        prolonged their visit until their provisions were entirely exhausted. Their
                        religious excitement of  the previous year had
                        interfered with the more prosaic occupation of corn-raising. Governor
                        Harrison benevolently and prudently (for hungry Indians are apt to be
                        dangerous neighbors) ordered them to be supplied from the public stores at
                        Fort Wayne. The Indian agent who carried out this order came to the
                        conclusion that the Prophet's followers had no hostile designs
                        against the United States. It seems very likely that in the beginning the
                        purpose of the Prophet was simply the establishment of a new religion, with
                        an accompanying reformation of morals, and that he got many suggestions in a
                        fragmentary and distorted way from the missionaries who had preached
                        Christianity among the Indians. As with Mohammed and other leaders, the
                        political purpose was an afterthought. It may have been the rising influence
                        of Tecumseh that gave this final bent to the preaching of the Prophet.
                        Tecumseh, about 1808, visited the Mississinawa villages. The object of this
                        trip could not be discovered, but it was probably connected with his
                        incipient scheme of uniting the Indians in a confederacy, of which he should
                        be the leader. The Indians in these towns promised to meet him and his
                        brother the following June, on the Wabash, to which place they had decided
                        to move. An Indian agent, Mr. Jouett, wrote to the
                        governor that he feared this meeting would result in some  hostile movement on the frontier, and advised
                        that the Prophet should be seized and imprisoned, in order to extinguish his
                        influence: General Harrison rejected this proposition, probably because so
                        violent a measure would have precipitated hostilities with
                        Tecumseh's band.
                    The Pottawatomies and Kickapoos granted Tecumseh and the Prophet a tract of
                        land on the Tippecanoe, one of the tributaries of the Wabash River. To this
                        place, in the western part of what is now the State of Indiana, Tecumseh and
                        the Prophet, with their party, started to remove in the spring of 1808, much
                        to the relief, no doubt, of their civilized neighbors in Ohio. The Miami and
                        Delaware nations had strong objections to their establishing themselves on
                        the Wabash, and set out to prevent it. At this time the number of the
                        Prophet's immediate band was still very small, there being only
                        about forty Shawnees and less than a hundred of other nations, mostly
                        Pottawatomies, Chippewas, Ottawas, and Winnebagoes. Tecumseh, however,
                        boldly met the deputation of chiefs from the Miamis and Delawares, and
                        turned them back from their purpose of stopping his settlement in Indiana.
                        They returned to their tribes, but with strong suspicions of the motives of
                        the brothers.
                    Tecumseh and his brother established a village on  the Tippecanoe, which came to be known as the
                        Prophet's Town. They now drew around them a body of Northern
                        Indians, much to the disgust of the Miamis and Delawares. The
                        Prophet's followers here, for the first time, began to combine
                        war-like sports with their religious exercises. Tecumseh's genius
                        for war was gradually asserting its ascendency over the Prophet's
                        gift for exciting religious fanaticism.
                    The Prophet now announced that he intended to visit Governor Harrison, in
                        order to explain his movements and to procure provisions for his band. He
                        said "these could not be consistently withheld from him, since the
                        white people had always encouraged him to preach the word of God to the
                        Indians, and it was in this holy work that he was now engaged."
                    In the latter part of June, 1808, he sent a small deputation of Indians to
                        Vincennes with a "speech" to the governor. This speech
                        denied all the unfavorable representations of his purposes which had been
                        circulated, saying that he and Tecumseh wished to live in peace with the
                        white people, and promising soon to visit the governor. The messenger who
                        bore this speech of the Prophet's, said, in a conference with the
                        governor:—
                    "I have now listened to that man upward of three  years, and have never heard him give any but
                        good advice. He tells us that we must pray to the Great Spirit who made the
                        world and everything in it for our use. He tells us that no man could make
                        the plants, the trees, and the animals, but that they must be made by the
                        Great Spirit, to whom we ought to pray and obey in all things. He tells us
                        not to e, to steal, nor to drink whisky; not to go to war, but to
                        live in peace with all mankind. He tells us also to work and make
                        corn."
                    In August, the Prophet made his visit, staying two weeks at Vincennes, and
                        holding frequent interviews with Governor Harrison. To prove his sincerity
                        and earnestness, he frequently addressed the Indians, who were with him in
                        the presence of the governor, dwelling upon the great evils resulting from
                        war and the use of liquor. Harrison soon formed a very favorable estimate of
                        the Prophet's talents. He tested his influence over his followers
                        by holding conversations with them and offering them whisky, which they
                        always refused. The governor had long been interested in the discussion of
                        what was to be done for the Indians, and had many times urged, in his
                        letters to the government, the necessity for keeping whisky from them. He
                        now began to hope that this preacher of temperance might better their
                        condition.
                    
                    
                    
                    Before the close of his visit, the Prophet delivered this speech before the
                        governor:—
                    "FATHER: It is three years since I first began that system of
                        religion which I now practice. The white people and some of the Indians were
                        against me, but I had no other intention but to introduce among the Indians
                        those good principles of religion which the white people profess. I was
                        spoken badly of by the white people, who reproached me with misleading the
                        Indians, but I defy them to say that I did anything amiss.
                    "Father, I was told you intended to hang me. When I heard this, I
                        intended to remember it and tell my father when I went to see him and relate
                        to him the truth.
                    "I heard, when I settled on the Wabash, that my father, the
                        governor, had declared that all the land between Vincennes and Fort Wayne
                        was the property of the Seventeen Fires. I also heard that you wanted to
                        know, my father, whether I was God or man; and that you said if I was the
                        former I should not steal horses. I heard this from Mr. Wells, but I
                        believed it originated with himself.
                    "The Great Spirit told me to tell the Indians that he had made them,
                        and made the world—that he had placed them on it to do good and not
                        evil.
                    
                    "I told all the redskins that the way they were in was not good, and
                        that they ought to abandon it.
                    "That we ought to consider ourselves as one man, but we ought to
                        live agreeably to our several customs, the red people after their mode and
                        the white people after theirs; particularly that they should not drink
                        whisky; that it was not made for them, but for the white people who knew how
                        to use it, and that it is the cause of all the mischiefs which the Indians
                        suffer, and that they must follow the directions of the Great Spirit, and we
                        must listen to Him, as it was He that made us; determine to listen to
                        nothing that is bad; do not take up the tomahawk should it be offered by the
                        British or by the Long Knives; do not meddle with anything that does not
                        belong to you, but mind your own business and cultivate the ground, that
                        your women and children may have enough to live on.
                    "I now inform you that it is our intention to live in peace with our
                        father and his people forever.
                    "My father, I have informed you what we mean to do, and I call the
                        Great Spirit to witness the truth of my declaration. The religion which I
                        have established for the last three years has been attended by all the
                        different tribes of Indians in this part of the world. Those Indians were
                        once different people; they are now but one; they are all determined to  practice what I have communicated to them,
                        that has come immediately from the Great Spirit through me.
                    "Brother, I speak to you as a warrior. You are one. But let us lay
                        aside this character and attend to the care of our children, that they may
                        live in comfort and peace. We desire that you will join us for the
                        preservation of both red and white people. Formerly, when we lived in
                        ignorance, we were foolish; but now, since we listen to the voice of the
                        Great Spirit, we are happy.
                    "I have listened to what you have said to us. You have promised to
                        assist us. I now request you, in behalf of all the red people, to use your
                        exertions to prevent the sale of liquor to us. We are all well pleased to
                        hear you say that you will endeavor to promote our happiness. We give you
                        every assurance that we will follow the dictates of the Great Spirit.
                    "We are all well pleased with the attention you have shown us, also
                        with the good intentions of our father, the President. If you give us a few
                        articles, such as needles, flints, hoes, powder, etc., we will take the
                        animals that afford us meat with powder and ball."
                    This speech has the characteristic Indian peroration. A bit of begging is in
                        almost every speech of the kind, and the close of this plea of the
                        Prophet's  attests its genuineness.
                        Nor can one read this part of Tenskwatawa's life without feeling
                        that beneath all his ignorance, persecuting fanaticism, and imposture, there
                        was a real ambition to be a benefactor to the Indians. Like many another
                        so-called prophet, he did not hold out so well as he began. His system of
                        religion was a farrago compounded of Indian prejudices and scraps of ideas
                        gathered here and there from the missionaries. But it seems to have been a
                        genuine advance on the superstitions that it had begun to supplant, and
                        under more favorable circumstances it might have been a stepping-stone to a
                        genuine enlightenment by the removal of old prejudices and the reformation
                        of morals. The Prophet and his followers received a supply of provisions and
                        returned to the Tippecanoe, leaving the governor in doubt as to whether the
                        new sect really had any hostile intentions toward the United States.
                        Harrison believed afterward that the Indian seer had played him false in
                        this movement, and that this display of piety was a mere ruse to allay his
                        fears and put him off his guard.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    PLANS AND CHARACTER OF TECUMSEH.
                    IN all these events Tecumseh stood in the background,
                        while the Prophet seemed to be the leader. So much was this so that, at the
                        time, the Prophet was supposed by the white people, including the governor
                        and President Jefferson himself, to be the sole mover of this excitement
                        among the Indian tribes. Tecumseh's greatness is shown in nothing
                        more than in his ability to wait. He must have had a consciousness of
                        talents far transcending the craft of his brother. And yet he quietly saw
                        the growing fame and influence of the latter. When the time came he asserted
                        his ascendency, and turned even the Prophet's fame and power to his
                        own purpose, which was a far less practicable one than that of
                        Tenskwatawa—being nothing less than the formation of a vast confederacy of
                        the Indian tribes to restrain the white race within limits, or, if possible,
                        to force them to retreat beyond the Alleghanies. It was in his failure to
                        estimate the resources of the whites and the relative persistency of
                        civilization  and savagery that the weakness
                        of the Indian mind shows itself.
                    But the scheme of Tecumseh should be judged from his own standpoint. He had
                        seen the whites overthrown under Harmar and St. Clair, and in many
                        skirmishes besides. And that too without any very large combinations among
                        the Indians. If now he could succeed in bringing together all the Indians,
                        so that the Southern border should be harassed at the same time that the
                        Western border was being over-whelmed, there seemed to Tecumseh a great
                        likelihood that the whites could be finally defeated and brought to sue for
                        peace at the hands of the Indians.
                    We cannot give Tecumseh credit for originality in this scheme. The idea was
                        an old one with energetic Indian warriors. Pontiac, before
                        Tecumseh's birth, had planned a similar rising against the whites,
                        and had allied himself with the French against the English, as Tecumseh
                        after this formed an alliance with the English against the Americans. But
                        with the Tippecanoe chiftain originated the idea of making use of
                        religious fanaticism and superstition as a motive to union and action. It is
                        hardly likely that Tecumseh and his brother deliberately adopted prophecy as
                        a ruse. Tenskwatawa, indolent and lacking in courage, was inferior in the
                        hunt and on the battlefield. What more natural than that his  crafty spirit should seek an ascendency of
                        another kind, and that the death of his predecessor, the Prophet
                        Change-of-Feathers, should have suggested the means. That he soon came to
                        believe in his own mission is not unlikely. Such cases of self-delusion are
                        common enough.
                    It seems probable that Tecumseh, ambitious of military fame, and desirous of
                        leading a larger band than the small company about him, saw in the flocking
                        of the tribes to the preaching of his brother the opportunity he desired.
                        From step to step his imagination rose to his large scheme, which was not to
                        form a temporary alliance, such as had been sought by Pontiac and others,
                        but a great and permanent confederation—an empire of red men, of which he
                        should be the leader and emperor.
                    To this end he fostered his brother's influence. He raised the
                        Prophet to the highest position among his followers, and affected always the
                        greatest respect for him, as though he were a superior being, and added much
                        to his brother's power by his own noble presence and influence over
                        the minds of others. But though the Prophet seemed to govern, Tecumseh ruled
                        with a quiet but imperious will. It is probable that he distrusted the
                        Prophet's judgment, for, though Tenskwatawa is said to have been a
                        more pleasing speaker even than Tecumseh, it was rarely the case  that he uttered a word in council when
                        Tecumseh was present.
                    Tecumseh was despotic, but not a tyrant. His mind was large, foreseeing the
                        probable destruction of the Indian tribes through the force of civilization.
                        He was largely patriotic—not a Shawnee, but a red man—loving all red
                        people and working for their advancement. He was a remarkable leader of men,
                        possessing a strong influence over them; he was brave in battle, calm and
                        dignified in every presence, acknowledging no man as his superior by the
                        slightest action, and fond of a certain regal dignity without pomp; but he
                        was never known to be cruel or revengeful to those who were helpless in his
                        power.
                    Tecumseh never allowed his portrait to be painted. He "was near six
                        feet in stature, with a compact, muscular frame, capable of great physical
                        endurance. His head was of a moderate size, with a forehead full and high,
                        his nose slightly aquiline, teeth large and regular, eyes black,
                        penetrating, and overhung with heavy arched brows, which increased the
                        uniformly grave and severe expression of his countenance. He is represented
                        by those who knew him to have been a remarkably fine-looking man, always
                        plain but neat in his dress, and of a commanding personal
                        presence."
                    An English writer on the war of 1812 says that 
                        Tecumseh was endowed "with more than the usual stoutness, and
                        possessed all the agility and persevrance of the Indian character.
                        His carriage was dignified, his eyes penetrating, his countenance, even in
                        death, giving indications of a lofty spirit. The Indians in general are full
                        as fond as other savages of the gaudy decoration of their persons, but
                        Tecumseh was an exception. Clothes and other valuable articles of spoil had
                        often been his, yet he invariably wore a deer-skin coat and pantaloons. He
                        had frequently levied subsidies to comparatively a large amount, yet he
                        preserved little or nothing for himself. It was not wealth but glory that
                        was Tecumseh's ruling passion."
                    There are two stories with regard to the marriage of Tecumseh, one being that
                        he was married to several wives, but never to more than one at a time; while
                        the other is that he had but one wife. The latter is probably the truth, for
                        it is on the testimony of men who knew him all his life. His marriage took
                        place at the age of twenty-eight, and was in compliance with the wishes of
                        his friends. His wife, Mamate, was older than himself, and seems to have
                        been a mediocre person, both physically and mentally. Tecumseh's
                        only child was a son named Pugeshashenwa, which means
                        "A-panther-seizing-its-prey." Mamate died soon after his
                        birth, and he was left to  the care of his
                        aunt, Tecumseh's beloved sister, Tecumapease.
                    An intelligent Shawnee who knew Tecumseh from childhood states that
                        "he was kind and attentive to the aged and infirm, looking
                        personally to their comfort, repairing their frail wigwams when winter
                        approached, giving them skins for moccasins and clothing, and sharing with
                        them the choicest game which the woods and the seasons afforded. Nor were
                        these acts of kindness bestowed exclusively on those of rank or reputation.
                        On the contrary, he made it his business to search out the humblest objects
                        of charity and in a quiet, unostentatious manner relieve their
                        wants."
                    "From the earliest period of his life," says one of the
                        Indian agents who had a great deal to do with him, "Tecumseh was
                        distinguished for virtue, for a strict adherence to truth, honor, and
                        integrity. He was sober and abstemious, never indulging in the use of liquor
                        or eating to excess."
                    A man who lived nearly twenty years among the Indians as a prisoner, part of
                        the time in Tecumseh's family, says, "I know of no peculiarity about him that gained him popularity. His
                        talents, rectitude of deportment, and friendly disposition commanded the
                        respect and regard of all about him. In short, I consider him a very great
                        as well a very good man,  who, had he enjoyed
                        the advantages of a liberal education, would have done honor to any age or
                        nation."
                    Benjamin Drake, in his life of Tecumseh, says: "When Burns, the
                        poet, was suddenly transferred from his plow, in Ayrshire, to the polished
                        circles of Edinburgh, his ease of manners and nice observance of the rules
                        of good breeding excited much surprise and became the theme of frequent
                        conversation. The same thing has been remarked of Tecumseh. Whether seated
                        at the tables of Generals McArthur and Worthington, as he was during the
                        council at Chillicothe in 1807, or brought in contact with British officers
                        of the highest rank, his manners were entirely free from vulgarity and
                        coarseness; he was uniformly self-possessed and with the tact and case of
                        deportment which marked the poet of the heart, and which are falsely
                        supposed to be the result of civilization and refinement only. He readily
                        accommodated himself to the novelties of his new position, and seemed more
                        amused than annoyed by them."
                    We can never know just when Tecumseh formed his scheme for a union of the red
                        men, to offset the union of the "Seventeen Fires" of the
                        whites; but the plan now began to reveal itself to the government in various
                        ways. Operations so extensive as his could not long be entirely hidden. He
                        had been  for some time engaged in visiting
                        various tribes and trying by the power of his masterful oratory to induce
                        them to join his confederacy. For at least three or four years he traveled
                        almost ceaselessly for the accomplishment of his purpose. He was at one time
                        away uamong the lakes in the remotest part of the old Indiana
                        Territory; at another time he was moving through the South; and at still
                        another he was in that then almost unknown world lying beyond the
                        Mississippi. What history we have of these travels of Tecumseh is in the
                        merest scraps, such as came to the knowledge of the whites from time to
                        time. Tirelessly he journeyed through the wilderness, eloquently he labored
                        with his red brethren, returning often to his headquarters, where the
                        Prophet reigned in his absence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    FORMATION OF TECUMSEH'S CONFEDERACY.
                    UNTIL 1810, Tecumseh seemed to be quietly strengthening
                        his influence among the tribes without distinctly announcing his ultimate
                        purpose.
                    Early in the year 1809, accompanied by Captain Lewis, a well-known Shawnee
                        chief, he attended a council of Indians held at Sandusky. Here he tried to
                        persuade the Wyandots and Senecas to remove to his settlement at Tippecanoe.
                        Among other inducements, he said that the country on this river was better
                        than what they now occupied, that it was further removed from the whites,
                        and that they would have more game and be happier there. The wary Indians,
                        however, had a suspicion that Tecumseh meant something more than he said,
                        and their experience in Wayne's campaign had given them a wholesome
                        fear of rashly offending the United States. The Crane, an old chief of the
                        Wyandots, answered, "that he feared Tecumseh was working for no
                        good purpose at Tippecanoe; that they would wait a few years, and then if
                        they found their red  brethren at that time
                        contented and happy, they would probably join them."
                    In April, 1809, the United States agent at Fort Wayne informed Governor
                        Harrison that, according to reports, the Indians had been required by the
                        Prophet to take up arms against the government, to exterminate the
                        inhabitants of Vincennes and of the settlements along the Ohio; this being
                        the order of the Great Spirit, who threatened destruction to those who
                        disobeyed. It was also reported that the Chippewas, Pottawatomies, and
                        Ottawas were deserting the Prophet in consequence of this order. Whether
                        this was true or not, and whether in any case it was Tecumseh's
                        plan, or only an ambitious undertaking of the Prophet's in
                        Tecumseh's absence, is not known. The agent said that there were
                        not more than a hundred warriors remaining with the Prophet; but the
                        Governor had information that there were within fifty miles of his
                        headquarters four or five times that number who were his devoted followers.
                        Harrison immediately organized two companies of volunteer militia with which
                        he garrisoned Fort Knox, which was situated within two miles of Vincennes.
                        If there had been any war-like purpose on the part of the Prophet, this show
                        of force put a stop to it, for Indians do not often strike an enemy who
                        stands on guard.
                    
                    In July, the Prophet and about forty followers visited Vincennes, at that
                        time the capital of the territory and the residence of the governor. He
                        meekly denied any part in the combination to attack the white settlements.
                        He claimed, indeed, that the plot was entirely confined to the tribes of the
                        Mississippi and Illinois Rivers, and that he had dissuaded them from their
                        intended hostilities.
                    Governor Harrison was not to be so easily deceived again by the
                        Prophet's plausibility, for he writes to the Secretary of War:
                        "I must confess that my suspicions of his guilt have been rather
                        strengthened than diminished at every interview I have had with him since
                        his arrival. He acknowledges that he received an invitation to war against
                        us from the British, last fall, and that he was apprised of the intention of
                        the Sacs and Foxes, &c., early in the spring, and was warmly
                        solicited to join their league. But he could give no satisfactory
                        explanation of his neglecting to communicate to me circumstances so
                        extremely interesting to us, and towards which I had a few months before
                        directed his attention, and received a solemn assuance of his
                        cheerful compliance with the injunctions I had impressed upon him. The
                        result of all my inquiries on the subject is that the late combination was
                        proed by British intrigue and influence, in antipation
                        of war  with the United States. It was,
                        however, premature and ill-judged. . . . The war-like and well-armed tribes
                        of the Pottawatomies, Ottawas, Chippewas, Delawares, and Miamis, I believe,
                        neither had nor would have joined in the combination; and although the
                        Kickapoos, whose warriors are better than those of any other tribe, the
                        remnant of the Wyandots excepted, are much under the influence of the
                        Prophet, I am persuaded that they were never made acquainted with his
                        intentions, if they were really hostile toward the United
                        States."
                    In 1809, at a council at Greenville, Governor Harrison purchased a large
                        tract of land lying on the east of the Wabash River from the Indian owners
                        — the Miami, Eel River, Delaware, and Pottawatomie tribes. He also made a
                        treaty with the Kickapoos, who confirmed the grant and sold another large
                        piece of land. When he made these treaties, Governor Harrison invited all
                        Indians to be present who were considered to have any claim to the land.
                    By April, 1810, there was a general conviction on the part of the whites that
                        the plans of Tecumseh and the Prophet were really hostile to the United
                        States. A trader who had been for some time at Tippecanoe informed Governor
                        Harrison that there were at least one thousand souls, perhaps four hundred
                        men, in that place under the control of the 
                        Prophet. It was plain that there was strong hostile feeling toward the
                        government among these Indians. They refused to buy any ammunition from
                        American traders, saying that they had a plentiful supply, and intimated
                        that they could get more from the English without paying for it.
                    About the middle of May, the governor was informed that the
                        Prophet's followers amounted to six or eight hundred men, and that
                        it was probable that this force could be doubled from those tribes over
                        which the Prophet had influence. All this led to much fear for the safety of
                        the small, exposed settlements in Indiana.
                    A large meeting of Indians was held at this time on the St. Joseph's
                        River. To this meeting Governor Harrison sent an appeal through the
                        Delawares, pointing out the inevitable destruction of those tribes who
                        should take up the hatchet against their fathers, and the great danger to
                        the friendly tribes through the difficulty of distinguishing friend from
                        foe.
                    The Prophet now succeeded in gaining the Wyandots over to his side. This
                        nation had always possessed great influence among the Indians, the members
                        of it being called "uncles," and venerated for their
                        talents and valor. The great belt, which had been the symbol of union
                        between the tribes in their previous war, was committed to the care of this
                        tribe.
                    
                    They also possessed the original copy of the treaty of Greenville. The
                        negotiations between this tribe and the Prophet are a good example of Indian
                        diplomacy. The Prophet sent a deputation to them saying that he was
                        surprised that the Wyandots, who had always directed the councils of the
                        Indians, in consequence of their talents and bravery, should sit still and
                        see the property of the Indians usurped by a part.
                    Flattered by this message, the Wyandots answered that they had carefully
                        preserved the belt which formerly united the Indians as one nation. This
                        belt, they said, had remained so long in their possession without being
                        called for, that they supposed it was forgotten. They assured the Prophet
                        that they were glad, however, that at last it was wanted. As for themselves,
                        they were tired of the situation; nothing was nearer their hearts than the
                        union of the tribes again as one man. They looked upon everything that had
                        been done since the treaty of Greenville as nothing; that they would join
                        with the Prophet in endeavoring to bring together all the tribes for the
                        purpose of stopping the encroachments of the white people, and recovering
                        that which had been unjustly taken from them.
                    This answer was exactly according to the wishes of the Prophet. He
                        immediately circulated it among all the Indian nations, and it proved a
                        powerful influence  in favor of
                        Tecumseh's scheme. The Wyandots soon started to make a visit to
                        Tippecanoe. On their way they held a conference with the Miami chiefs. They
                        showed the great belt, and reproached the Miamis with having united with the
                        whites against their Indian friends. The Miamis were so intimidated that
                        they joined the Wyandots on their journey to the Prophet's Town,
                        inviting the Weas to go with them.
                    An old Piankishaw Indian named Grosble, who was very much attached to
                        Governor Harrison and to the United States, asked at this time permission to
                        move beyond the Mississippi, saying that he had heard nothing but rumors of
                        war among the Indians, and as he would not engage in it he wished to be out
                        of danger. He told the governor that which he heard from other
                        sources—that the Prophet intended to attack Vincennes, and boasted that he
                        would follow the footsteps of the great Pontiac.
                    The governor had stationed a person as spy at the Prophet's Town, by
                        whom he was now informed that there were about three thousand men within
                        thirty miles of this place, who carried on a great deal of secret
                        counseling, and who were at least resolved to prevent the survey of any land
                        west of the Wabash River.
                    In June, a boat was sent up the Wabash with salt  for the Indians, as part of their annuities. The Prophet refused to
                        receive the salt, and the men who brought it were treated rudely and told to
                        go back to Vincennes.
                    About the time when the salt was refused, the indefatigable Tecumseh was
                        among the Shawnees on the Auglaize; but the new leader was without honor
                        among his own people. He tried in vain to induce them to join his scheme,
                        but they even refused to go into council with him. The Shawnee chiefs on the
                        Auglaize had received a letter from Governor Harrison some months previous
                        to Tecumseh's arrival, which no doubt had something to do with
                        their peaceful disposition. This letter Tecumseh took from from the hand of
                        the interpreter and scornfully threw it into the fire, declaring that if
                        Governor Harrison were present he would serve him in the same way.
                    He told the Indians that the white people were deceiving them; that for his
                        part he would never put any confidence in the whites. He said that if he
                        were dead the cause would not die with him. But he went away much
                        dissatisfied with his ill success among the Shawnees.
                    Tecumseh owed his failure with this tribe in great part, no doubt, to the
                        influence of the great See chief, Black Hoof. This Indian had been
                         in  Florida, and was old enough at
                        the time of the removal of his nation to Ohio to remember bathing in the
                        salt water of the ocean. He had been present at the defeat of Braddock, in
                        1755, during the French and English war, and had been very actively engaged
                        in all the wars in Ohio until Wayne's treaty with the Indians. It
                        is said that his wisdom and energy in the planning and executing of his
                        military expeditions was so great that he was never at a loss for braves to
                        fight under his lead.
                    Black Hoof had been the orator of his tribe during most of his life, and had
                        fought bravely in the vain hope of staying the tide of white emigration to
                        the valley of the Mississippi. But after the disastrous defeat of the
                        Indians by Wayne, the old chief, grown wise by the experience of years,
                        became convinced of the futility of all attempts to drive back the whites.
                        He signed the treaty of Greenville, and from that time actively opposed all
                        war with the settlers. As he was the head chief of the Shawnee nation, the
                        influence of his office and of his personal character gave him a great
                        ascendency in the councils of his people.
                    Every persuasion was brought to bear by Tecumseh on Black Hoof to induce him
                        to join his scheme, but all failed; the chief and the greater part of his
                        tribe remained faithful to the treaty of Greenville.  In the war which succeeded between the United States and Great
                        Britain, he was firmly attached to the American cause, although he took no
                        active part in the conflict.
                    Like Tecumseh, this great chief was opposed to polygamy and the burning of
                        prisoners. He is said to have lived for forty years with one wife, and to
                        have raised a large family of children, who loved and respected him. He was
                        of a cheerful disposition and sprightly in conversation. Black Hoof was
                        rather small, being about five feet eight inches in height. He died at
                        Wapakonetta, Ohio, in 1831, at the age of one hundred and ten. Up to the
                        time of his death his health was good and his eyesight undimmed.
                    Governor Harrison was visited in June by a deputation of Pottawatomie
                        Indians, headed by the chief Winnemac, to inform him of the result of the
                        council held at the St. Joseph's of Lake Michigan. It had been
                        attended by all the neighboring Indians, and by the Delawares, who were to
                        have gone there for the purpose of dissuading the Indians from joining the
                        Prophet. This they succeeded in doing, and Winnemac was sent to inform the
                        governor of all they knew of the Prophet's plans, which was that
                        every exertion was to be made on the part of the Prophet's party to
                        induce the trans-Mississippi tribes to join 
                        the confederacy; and that Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, St. Louis, and
                        Vincennes were all to be surprised. It was reported that the Prophet had
                        even suggested to his young men the murder of some of the neighboring chiefs
                        in order that their own hands might be free to carry forward their
                        purposes.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    EXECUTION OF LEATHERLIPS FOR WITCHCRAFT.
                    ON the evening of the first day of June, six Wyandots,
                        equipped in the most war-like manner, appeared at the house of a white man
                        on the Scioto, near where the city of Columbus, Ohio, now stands. They were
                        much agitated, and inquired after an old Wyandot chief named Leatherlips,
                        whom they had been seeking. When they found that he was encamped two miles
                        further up the river, they immediately started off, saying they intended to
                        kill him.
                    A Mr. John Sells was told of the visit of the Indians the next morning, and
                        started off for Leatherlips' camp. He came upon the six warriors,
                        who were headed, it is believed, by the chief Roundhead, seated in council
                        in a grove of sugar maples a short distance from Leatherlips'
                        lodge. The old chief, with his arms tied with a slight cord, sat calmly in
                        their midst. A few white neighbors were also present, and a sullen and
                        gloomy Indian, who had been Leatherlips' companion, sat apart in
                        the camp. Going up to the Indians, Mr. Sells found them in  earnest debate. They were trying the
                        white-haired Leatherlips for witchcraft. With this he had been previously
                        charged by some of the Indians present, who believed they had lost some of
                        their friends through his evil powers.
                    For two or three hours the council lasted. The accusers spoke with much
                        ceremony, but evidently very bitterly. The prisoner answered eloquently, but
                        without passion, occasionally smiling disdainfully. The council was closed
                        with a sentence of death. Some of the white men inquired as to the time of
                        the execution. The captain of the accusers pointed to the sun, indicating
                        one o'clock. Mr. Sells asked him what Leatherlips had done.
                    "Very bad Indian," answered he; "make good Indian
                        sick; make horse sick; make die; very bad chief." Mr. Sells tried
                        to induce the white men to interfere for the safety of the chief, but they
                        refused, fearing the results of Indian animosity on their unprotected
                        settlements. He then tried to purchase the life of Leatherlips with a very
                        fine horse, worth three hundred dollars. This staggered the Indians at
                        first, but after a long council their fanatical zeal triumphed, and the
                        offer was refused.
                    After the close of the council, five of the Indians amused themselves with
                        athletic sports, such as running, jumping, etc. In these, Roundhead took no
                             part. He now indicated the hour of four
                        as the time of execution. Leatherlips then walked slowly to his camp, ate a
                        dinner of jerked venison, washed and dressed himself in his best apparel,
                        which was very rich, and finally painted his face. His graceful figure and
                        gray hair gave him a very impressive look. He requested that the company
                        should draw around him at the lodge. He had noticed that Mr. Sells had
                        exerted himself for him, and now handed him a paper, which was a
                        recommendation from Governor Hull. This paper was read to the company and
                        then fixed to a tree at the prisoner's desire. He shook hands
                        silently with the whole company, but on coming to Mr. Sells he grasped his
                        hand warmly, spoke a few words in the Wyandot tongue, and pointed to the
                        sky. He then turned, and, in a voice of wonderful strength and melody, began
                        chanting his death-song. He was followed by the six warriors, keeping time
                        to the wild melancholy dirge with their slow steps. The white men also
                        silently fell into this procession. At about eighty yards from the camp they
                        came upon a shallow grave. Here the venerable Leatherlips kneeled down and
                        solemnly prayed to the Great Spirit. This was followed by a prayer from the
                        leader. Mr. Sells now told him that if he did this deed he ought at least to
                        go beyond the limits of the white settlements.
                    
                    "No!" he answered sternly and with much displeasure;
                        "no! good Indian 'fraid; he no go with this bad man; mouth
                        give fire in the dark night; good Indian 'fraid; he no
                        go."
                    Mr. Sells reluctantly gave up the old man's cause. Up to this time
                        there was no weapon visible Leatherlips again sank on his knees
                        and prayed  before. In this position he remained, after he had
                        finished praying, until the fatal blow was struck, with a tomahawk suddenly
                        drawn from beneath the blanket of the leader.
                    Leatherlips, in all his rich clothing and decorations, was then buried, and
                        the executioners returned as they had come.
                    This execution is believed to have taken place by order of the Prophet. It is
                        thought that the six Wyandots came immediately from Tippecanoe to the banks
                        of the Scioto. Whether or not motives of policy dictated the charge of
                        witchcraft against Leatherlips, we do not know. It is quite possible that
                        the hostile chiefs now found it needful to strike with terror all those
                        leaders who held aloof from their movement.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    MEETING OF HARRISON AND TECUMSEH AT VINCENNES.
                    IN the month of June, 1810, Governor Harrison sent two
                        confidential agents to Tippecanoe to discover more fully if possible the
                        designs of the Prophet. One of these agents, a Mr. Dubois, was received
                        kindly. He told the Prophet that Governor Harrison had sent him to find out
                        what was the reason of his war-like preparations and his enmity against the
                        United States. He told the Prophet that his movements had so alarmed the
                        white people that warriors in Kentucky and Indiana were arming themselves,
                        but that the Governor wished him to say that this was only for defence, and
                        that no attempt should be made against him until there was no more doubt of
                        his intentions. The Prophet said that he did not intend to make war, that he
                        had been unjustly accused, and that he was fixed in that place by the
                        express commands of the Great Spirit. The agent urged him to state his
                        complaints against the government. The Prophet replied that the Indians had
                        been cheated of their lands; that a sale to be valid must be  sanctioned by all the tribes. Mr. Dubois told
                        him that he ought to go to Vincennes and present his complaints to the
                        governor.
                    The Prophet declined doing this, saying that he had been badly treated on his
                        former visit. Mr. Dubois also visited the Wea and Eel River tribes. They
                        were fearful that war would break out, and that they would be involved in
                        it.
                    On the 4th of July, four canoes filled with some of the Prophet's
                        followers descended the Wabash. One of these canoes, containing some
                        Kickapoos, came down as low as a settlement above Vincennes, where they
                        stopped and attended a Shaker meeting on Sunday. After this act of piety
                        they wound up their Sabbath by stealing five horses in the night.
                    A few days later, a party of Indians who had been visiting the Sac and Fox
                        Indians on the Mississippi, told Governor Harrison that these tribes had
                        taken up the hatchet and said they were ready to act with the Prophet
                        whenever he should desire. It was also said that a Miami chief, who had been
                        on his annual visit to the English post at Malden, after receiving his
                        supplies, was addressed thus by the English agent:—
                    "My son, keep your eyes fixed on me. My tomahawk is now up; be you
                        ready, but do not strike till I give the signal."
                    Governor Harrison sent a confidential agent, Mr.  Baron, with a letter to Tippecanoe. When this messenger reached the
                        Prophet's Town he was received in very dramatic fashion. He was
                        first conducted ceremoniously to the place where the Prophet, surrounded by
                        a number of Indians, was seated. Here he was left standing at the distance
                        of about ten feet from the Indian prophet. "He looked at
                        me," said Mr. Baron, "for several minutes, without
                        speaking or making any sign of recognition, although he knew me well. At
                        last he spoke, apparently in anger. `For what purpose do you come
                        here?' said he. `Brouilette was here; he was a spy. Dubois was
                        here; he was a spy. Now you have come. You too are a spy.
                        There is your grave! look on it!' The Prophet then pointed to the
                        ground near the spot where I stood."
                    Tecumseh, who seems to have been accustomed to check his brother's
                        fondness for stage acting, now came out of one of the lodges, greeted Mr.
                        Baron coldly, told him that his life was in no danger, and asked him to
                        state the object of his visit. Mr. Baron then read the following
                        letter:—
                    "William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander-in-chief of the
                        Territory of Indiana, to the Shawnee chief and the Indians assembled at
                        Tippecanoe: Notwithstanding the improper language which you have used
                        towards me, I will endeavor to open  your eyes
                        to your true interests. Notwithstanding what white men have told you, I am
                        not your personal enemy. You ought to know this from the manner in which I
                        received and treated you on your visit to this place.
                    "Although I must say that you are an enemy to the Seventeen Fires,
                        and that you have used the greatest exertions to lead them [the Indians]
                        astray. In this you have been in some measure successful; as I am told, they
                        are ready to raise the tomahawk against their father, yet their father,
                        notwithstanding his anger at their folly, is full of goodness, and is always
                        ready to receive into his arms those of his children who are willing to
                        repent, acknowledge their fault, and ask his forgiveness.
                    "There is yet but little harm done, which may be easily repaired.
                        The chain of friendship which united the whites with the Indians may be
                        renewed, and be as strong as ever. A great deal of that work depends on
                        you—the destiny of those who are under your direction depends upon the
                        choice you may make of the two roads which are before you. The one is large,
                        open, and pleasant, and leads to peace, security, and happiness; the other,
                        on the contrary, is narrow and crooked, and leads to misery and ruin.
                        Don't deceive yourselves; do not believe that all the nations of
                        Indians united are able to resist  the force
                        of the Seventeen Fires. I know your warriors are brave, but ours are not
                        less so. But what can a few brave warriors do against the innumerable
                        warriors of the Seventeen Fires? Our blue-coats are more numerous than you
                        can count; our hunters are like the leaves of the forest, or the grains of
                        sand on the Wabash. Do not think that the red-coats can protect you; they
                        are not able to protect themselves. They do not think of going to war with
                        us. If they did, you would in a few moons see our flag wave over all the
                        forts of Canada. What reason have you to complain of the Seventeen Fires?
                        Have they taken anything from you? Have they ever violated the treaties made
                        with the red men? You say they have purchased lands from those who had no
                        right to sell them. Show that this is true and the land will be instantly
                        restored. Show us the rightful owners. I have full power to arrange this
                        business; but if you would rather carry your complaints before your great
                        father, the President, you shall be indulged. I will immediately take means
                        to send you, with those chiefs that you may choose, to the city where your
                        father lives. Everything necessary shall be prepared for your journey, and
                        means taken for your safe return."
                    The Prophet made no answer to this speech, but promised to send Tecumseh to
                        visit the governor.  Mr. Baron had much
                        conversation with Tecumseh, however. He said that he did not intend to make
                        war, but he solemnly declared that it was impossible to remain friends with
                        the United States unless they would give up the idea of making settlements
                        further to the north and west, and would acknowledge the principle that the
                        Western country was the common property of all Indian tribes.
                    "The Great Spirit," said Tecumseh, "gave this
                        great island to his red children; he placed the white on the other
                        side of the big water. They were not contented with their own, but came to
                        take ours from us. They have driven us from the sea to the lakes: we can go
                        no further. They have taken upon them to say this tract belongs to
                        the Miamis, this the Delawares, and so on; but the Great Spirit intended it
                        as the common property of all. Our father tells us that we have no business
                        upon the Wabash—the land belongs to other tribes; but the Great Spirit
                        ordered us to come here, and here we will stay."
                    Tecumseh said, however, that he was much pleased with the governor's
                        speech. He had never been to see him, but he remembered him as a very young
                        man sitting by the side of General Wayne. He had never troubled the white
                        people much, he said, but he would now go to Vincennes and show the governor
                        that he had been listening to bad men, when he  was told that they meditated war against the United States.
                    From Mr. Baron's report we gather that some dissatisfaction and
                        jealousy had arisen in the Prophet's paradise at Tippecanoe,
                        probably through the unwise over-boastfulness of the seer with regard to his
                        divine power. A Pottawatomie chief told Baron, in the Prophet's
                        presence, that he had promised them that there should be no more deaths at
                        his town, but that three Kickapoos had been buried in as many days. The
                        Prophet did not understand what the chief said, and asked Baron to repeat
                        it. When he heard what it was, he said that the Pottawatomie had lied, for
                        no one had died.
                    "I will not say," the chief answered, with Indian sarcasm,
                        "that any have died, but I know that you promised that none should
                        die, and I have seen three bodies buried within three days; but they may
                        have been dogs or persons long since dead, who have been taken up to be
                        buried over again."
                    Tecumseh told Mr. Baron that he would probably bring thirty of his principal
                        men to Vincennes with him, and as the young men were fond of attending on
                        such occasions, there would probably be a hundred in all. The Prophet added
                        that they might expect to see a great many more than that.
                    This idea did not please the governor, and he sent  an Indian messenger requesting that but a few should attend
                        Tecumseh on his visit.
                    Tecumseh, however, descended the Wabash on the 12th of August, with four
                        hundred warriors, armed with their tomahawks. Captain Floyd, the commander
                        at Fort Knox, describes the passing of this chief in a letter, thus:—
                    "Nothing new has transpired since my last letter to you except that
                        the Shawnee Indians have come; they passed this garrison, which is three
                        miles above Vincennes, on Sunday last, in eighty canoes. They were all
                        painted in the most terrific manner. They were stopped at the garrison by
                        me, for a short time. I examined their canoes, and found them ell prepared
                        for war in case of an attack. They were headed by the brother of the
                        Prophet, Tecumseh, who perhaps is one of the finest looking men I ever
                        saw—about six feet high, straight, with large, fine features, and
                        altogether a daring, bold looking fellow. The governor's council
                        with them will commence tomorrow morning."
                    In this council, Harrison and Tecumseh each distrusted the other's
                        good faith at first. The governor had intended that it should be held on the
                        portico of his own house, which was fitted up with seats for the purpose.
                        Here he placed himself, attended by the judges of the Supreme Court, some
                        officers of the  army, a sergeant with twelve
                        men from Fort Knox, and a large number of citizens. At the time appointed,
                        Tecumseh, who was encamped outside of the town, appeared with forty
                        warriors. He approached within thirty or forty rods, and stopped. Governor
                        Harrison sent out an interpreter to request him and his followers to take
                        seats on the portico. Tecumseh refused to do this, saying he did not think
                        it a proper place to hold the council, and that he preferred a grove of
                        trees which stood a short distance from the house. The governor answered
                        that he had no objection to the grove, but that there were no seats there.
                        Tecumseh replied that it would only be necessary to bring out chairs enough
                        to accommodate the white men, saying, "The earth is my mother, and
                        on her bosom will I repose."
                    The governor yielded the point, chairs and benches were removed to the grove,
                        but the Indians, according to their habit, sat upon the grass.
                    As Tecumseh's speech on this occasion is very remarkable, indicating
                        his modes of thought, we give passages from it as follows:—
                    "Brother: I wish you to listen to me well. As I think you do not
                        clearly understand what I before said to you, I will explain it again. . .
                        .
                    "Brother, since the peace was made, you have killed some of the
                        Shawnees, Winnebagoes, Delawares, and  Miamis,
                        and you have taken our land from us, and I do not see how we can remain at
                        peace if you continue to do so. You try to force the red people to do some
                        injury. It is you that are pushing them on to do mischief. You endeavor to
                        make distinctions. You wish to prevent the Indians doing as we wish
                        them—to unite, and let them consider their lands as the common property of
                        the whole; you take tribes aside and advise them not to come into this
                        measure; and until our design is accomplished we do not wish to accept of
                        your invitation to go and see the President. The reason I tell you this, you
                        want, by your distinctions of Indian tribes in allotting to each a
                        particular tract of land, to make them to war with each other. You never see
                        an Indian come and endeavor to make the white people do so. You are
                        continually driving the red people; when, at last, you will drive them into
                        the Great Lake, where they can't either stand or walk.
                    "Brother, you ought to know what you are doing with the Indians.
                        Perhaps it is by direction of the President to make those distinctions. It
                        is a very bad thing, and we do not like it. Since my residence at Tippecanoe
                        we have endeavored to level all distinctions—to destroy village chiefs, by
                        whom all mischief is done. It is they who sell our lands to the Americans.
                        Our object is to let our affairs be transacted by warriors.
                    
                    "Brother, this land that was sold and the goods that were given for
                        it were only done by a few. The treaty was afterwards brought here, and the
                        Weas were induced to give their consent because of their small numbers. The
                        treaty at Fort Wayne was made through the threats of Winnemac; but in future
                        we are prepared to punish those chiefs who may come forward to propose to
                        sell the land. If you continue to purchase of them it will produce war among
                        the different tribes, and at last, I do not know what will be the
                        consequence to the white people.
                    "Brother, I was glad to hear your speech. You said that if we could
                        show that the land was sold by people that had no right to sell, you would
                        restore it. Those that did sell did not own it. It was me. These tribes set
                        up a claim, but the tribes with me will not agree with their claim. If the
                        land is not restored to us you will see, when we return to our homes, how it
                        will be settled. We shall have a great council, at which all the tribes will
                        be present, when we shall show to those who sold that they had no right to
                        the claim that they set up; and we will see what will be done to those
                        chiefs that did sell the land to you. I am not alone in this determination;
                        it is the determination of all the warriors and red people that listen to
                        me. I now wish you to listen to me. If you do not, it will appear as if you
                        wished me to kill all the  chiefs that sold
                        you the land. I tell you so because I am authorized by all the tribes to do
                        so. I am the head of them all; I am a warrior, and all the warriors will
                        meet together in two or three moons from this; then I will call for those
                        chiefs that sold you the land and shall know what to do with them. If you do
                        not restore the land, you will have a hand in killing them.
                    "Brother, do not believe that I came here to get presents from you.
                        If you offer us any, we will not take. By taking goods from you, you will
                        hereafter say that with them you purchased another piece of land from us. .
                        . . It has been the object of both myself and brother to prevent the lands
                        being sold. Should you not return the land, it will occasion us to call a
                        great council that will meet at the Huron village, where the council-fire
                        has already been lighted, at which those who sold the lands shall be called,
                        and shall suffer for their conduct.
                    "Brother, I wish you would take pity on the red people and do what I
                        have requested. If you will not give up the land and do cross the boundary
                        of your present settlement, it will be very hard, and produce great troubles
                        among us. How can we have confidence in the white people? When Jesus Christ
                        came on earth, you killed him and nailed him on a cross. You thought he was
                        dead, but you were mistaken.
                    
                    You have Shakers among you, and you laugh and make light of their worship.
                        Everything I have said to you is the truth. The Great Spirit has inspired
                        me, and I speak nothing but the truth to you. . . . Brother, I hope you will
                        confess that you ought not to have listened to those bad birds who bring you
                        bad news. I have declared myself freely to you, and if any explanation
                        should be required from our town, send a man who can speak to us. If you
                        think proper to give us any presents, and we can be convinced that they are
                        given through friendship alone, we will accept them. As we intend to hold
                        our council at the Huron village, that is near the British, we may probably
                        make them a visit. Should they offer us any presents of goods, we will not
                        take them; but should they offer us powder and the tomahawk, we will take
                        the powder and refuse the tomahawk. I wish you, brother, to consider
                        everything I have said as true, and that it is the sentiment of all the red
                        people that listen to me."
                    All this was not calculated to promote a peaceful or friendly feeling in the
                        council. Each side felt exceedingly distrustful of the other. Tecumseh had
                        awakened in his own mind, and in the minds of his companions, the bitterest
                        feeling of injury from the United States, while he had increased the
                        suspicions  of treachery on the part of the
                        inhabitants of Vincennes who were present.
                    Governor Harrison now arose and denied that the Indians were one nation. He
                        said that when the white people had come to America, the Miamis occupied all
                        the country on the Wabash, and the Shawnees lived in Georgia, from which
                        place they had been driven by the Creeks. These lands had been bought from
                        the Miamis, who were the owners. It was ridiculous to say that the Indians
                        were all one nation. If the Great Spirit had meant it to be so, he would not
                        have put different tongues into their heads, but would have taught them to
                        speak a language that all could understand. The Miamis thought it to their
                        interest to sell part of their land for a further annuity, the benefit of
                        which they had for a long time experienced from the punctuality with which
                        the Seventeen Fires had paid them. The Shawnees had no right to come from a
                        distant country and control the Miamis in the disposal of their
                        property.
                    The governor sat down, to allow the interpreter time to explain this. He had
                        interpreted it to the Shawnees, and had begun to do so to the Pottawatomies,
                        when Tecumseh rose up and began to speak very vehemently. The governor was
                        surprised at his violent gestures, but thinking he must be making some
                        explanation, turned his attention to the friendly  chief, Winnemac, who was priming his pistol, which he kept
                        concealed from the Indians, but which was in full sight of the governor.
                        Just then he heard General Gibson, who understood the Shawnee language, say
                        to Lieutenant Jennings.
                    "Those fellows intend mischief; you had better bring up the
                        guard."
                    The governor looked at the Indians, who at that moment seized their arms and
                        sprang to their feet around their leader with their eyes upon Harrison. He
                        rose immediately from his arm-chair and drew a small sword which hung at his
                        side, while Captain Floyd drew a dirk and Winnemac cocked his pistol. The
                        unarmed citizens, of whom there were quite a number present, laid hold of
                        clubs and brickbats, while Mr. Winans, a Methodist minister, ran to the
                        governor's house, got a gun, and stood at the doorway to defend the
                        family. During this strange scene no one spoke a word. The guard soon came
                        running up, and were about to fire, when the governor ordered them not to do
                        so, and asked the interpreter to explain what had happened. He replied that
                        Tecumseh had interrupted him, saying that all that the governor had said was
                        false, and that the Indians had been cheated and imposed upon by him and the
                        Seventeen Fires.
                    The governor then told Tecumseh that he was a 
                        bad man, and that he would have no further communication with him, that he
                        might go in safety, since he had come under protection to the council-fire,
                        but that he must immediately leave the neighborhood.
                    The following morning Tecumseh sent for the interpreter. Through him he
                        earnestly entreated the governor to give him an opportunity to explain his
                        action, saying that he did not intend to attack him, and that he had acted
                        under the advice of white people.
                    The governor at last consented to receive the Indian chief, each party having
                        the same force as before. Harrison and his friends took pains to be better
                        armed, however.
                    At this interview Tecumseh behaved very differently, being cool and
                        dignified. When the governor asked him if he intended to prevent the survey
                        of the land on the Wabash, he answered that he was determined the old
                        boundary should continue.
                    When Tecumseh finished speaking, Wyandot, Kickapoo, Pottawatomie, Ottawa, and
                        Winnebago chiefs all spoke, saying that they had joined Tecumseh's
                        confederacy, and appointed him their leader, and that they would support
                        him.
                    Governor Harrison then told Tecumseh that as he had been candid in
                        acknowledging his intentions, he  would be so
                        too. He would send to the President a faithful statement of what he had said
                        in disputing the claim to the lands in question, and tell Tecumseh his
                        answer when he received it, but he was sure the President would never admit
                        them to be the property of any other than those tribes who had occupied them
                        since the white people came to America, and that as they had come by their
                        title by fair purchase, he might be sure that it would be supported by the
                        sword. The council then adjourned.
                    The governor was exceedingly anxious to have a more satisfactory conversation
                        with Tecumseh. He accordingly went to visit him at his encampment next day,
                        accompanied only by an interpreter. Tecumseh received the governor very
                        politely, and talked with him for a long time. Governor Harrison asked him
                        if his intentions were such as he had declared in council. Tecumseh said
                        they certainly were; that it would be with great reluctance that he would
                        make war upon the United States, of whom he had nothing to complain but
                        their purchase of Indian lands. He was anxious to be their friend, and if
                        the governor would prevail upon the President to give up the land recently
                        bought, and agree never to make another treaty without the consent of all
                        the tribes, he would be their faithful ally, and assist them in all their
                        wars with the English. He  said he knew that
                        the British were always urging the Indians to war for their own advantage,
                        and not for the good of the red men; and clapped his hands and imitated the
                        halloo of a man setting a dog on to fight, to represent the way in which the
                        British urged the Indians on to the Americans. But, he continued, he would
                        rather be the friend of the Seventeen Fires. If they did not comply with his
                        terms, however, he would be obliged to take the other side. Probably this
                        was all true, for there was very little credulity about Tecumseh, and if he
                        hated the Americans, he equally despised the English.
                    Governor Harrison again said that he would tell the President of all his
                        propositions, but that there was not the least probability that he would
                        accede to his terms.
                    "Well," said Tecumseh, "as the great chief is to
                        determine the matter, I hope the Great Spirit will put sense enough into his
                        head to induce him to direct you to give up this land. It is true, he is so
                        far off he will not be injured by the war; he may sit in his town and drink
                        his wine, while you and I will have to fight it out."
                    The governor then said that he had one thing to request of Tecumseh, that in
                        case it came to war he would put a stop to that cruel and disgraceful mode
                        of warfare which the Indians were accustomed to  wage against women and children, and those who were no longer in a
                        situation to resist. Tecumseh very readily agreed to this, and he kept his
                        promise.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    THE LAST COUNCIL BETWEEN HARRISON AND TECUMSEH.
                    IN the fall of 1810, a Kickapoo chief visited the governor
                        and told him that the designs of Tecumseh and the Prophet were certainly
                        hostile. At the same time, Governor Clark of Missouri wrote to Harrison that
                        belts had been sent to the tribes west of the Mississippi with an invitation
                        to join in a war against the United States, which was to begin with an
                        attack on Vincennes. He said that the Sacs had joined the confederacy, and
                        had sent a party to the English post, Malden, for arms and ammunition. The
                        interpreter at Chicago also sent word that the Indian tribes in that part of
                        the country were fully determined upon war. In these various reports from
                        different tribes we see the extent of Tecumseh's travels, and of
                        the influence he had acquired over distant Indians.
                    During 1810, one of the surveyors who undertook to run the lines on the new
                        purchase of land on the Wabash was driven off by some Wea Indians, who took
                        two of his men prisoners.
                    
                    Early in the spring of 1811, Governor Harrison sent a boat up the Wabash
                        loaded with salt for the different Indian tribes on that river, including an
                        allowance for the Prophet's Town. Tecumseh had been absent for some
                        time, on a visit to the lakes, when the boat arrived at Tippecanoe. The
                        Prophet called a council to decide what should be done. Th year
                        before the Indians had punished themselves by refusing to take any salt; now
                        they decided to seize it all. They sent word to the governor not to be angry
                        with what they had done, for the Prophet had two thousand men to feed, and
                        had not received any salt for two years. There were then about six hundred
                        men at Tippecanoe, and Tecumseh was daily expected with reinforcements.
                        These facts increased the uneasiness and alarm which had been felt for some
                        time in consequence of the actions of the brothers. It was now conjectured
                        that an attack was meditated upon Vincennes, with eight hundred or a
                        thousand warriors, a much larger force than the governor could collect.
                    For making this attack, Tecumseh was admirably well situated. He was far
                        enough away to avoid close observation, centrally situated among the tribes
                        he wished to unite immediately, and placed so that in high water his large
                        force, in their light canoes, could glide silently down the Wabash in
                        twenty-four hours,  and appear before
                        Vincennes without any warning. For no messenger could travel overland with
                        equal expedition.
                    Governor Harrison sent a request to the government that a regiment stationed
                        at Pittsburg under Colonel Boyd should be ordered to Vincennes. He also
                        asked for authority to act offensively against the Indians when it should be
                        discovered that their intentions were decidedly hostile, believing that it
                        was best to crush an outbreak in the beginning.
                    There were various little troubles constantly arising between the settlers
                        and the Indians. Some horses had been stolen, but four of these were
                        returned on application to Tecumseh. Some murders had been committed by
                        certain Pottawatomies. The Indians felt little inclined to trouble
                        themselves about redressing these wrongs, because similar aggressions often
                        took place on the part of the whites. Governor Harrison says; "I
                        wish I could say the Indians were treated with justice and propriety on all
                        occasions by our citizens, but it is far otherwise. They are often abused
                        and maltreated, and it is rare that they obtain any satisfaction for the
                        most unprovoked wrongs." A Muskoe Indian was killed in Vincennes by
                        an Italian innkeeper without any just cause. The governor ordered that the
                        murderer should be apprehended, but so great was the antagonism to the  Indians among all classes, that on his trial
                        the jury acquitted the homicide almost without any deliberation.
                    About the same time, two Wea Indians were badly wounded near Vincennes by
                        some whites, without the slightest provocation. Such facts exasperated the
                        Indians, and led to their refusal to deliver up Indians who had committed
                        like offences against white men. When the governor made a demand on the
                        Delaware Indians for White Turkey, who had robbed the house of a Mr. Vawter,
                        the chiefs refused to give him up, saying that they would never deliver up
                        another man until some of the whites were punished who had murdered their
                        people. They put White Turkey to death themselves, however.
                    In June, Tecumseh had returned from a visit to the Iroquois and Wyandot
                        Indians. Governor Harrison sent to him and the Prophet, along with the other
                        chiefs at Tippecanoe, the following speech:—
                    "BROTHERS: Listen to me. I speak to you about matters of importance
                        both to the white people and yourselves; open your ears, therefore, and
                        attend to what I shall say. Brothers, this is the third year that all the
                        white people in this country have been alarmed at your proceedings; you
                        threaten us with war; you invite all the tribes to the north and west of you
                        to join against us.
                    
                    "Brothers, your warriors who have lately been here deny this, but I
                        have received information from every direction; the tribes on the
                        Mississippi have sent me word that you intended to murder me, and then to
                        commence a war upon our people. I have also received the speech you sent to
                        the Pottawatomies and others to join you for that purpose; but if I had no
                        other evidence of your hostility to us, your seizing the salt I lately sent
                        up the Wabash is sufficient. Brothers, our citizens are alarmed, and my
                        warriors are preparing themselves, not to strike you, but to defend
                        themselves and their women and children. You shall not surprise us as you
                        expect to do; you are about to undertake a very rash act. As a friend, I
                        advise you to consider well of it; a little reflection may save us a great
                        deal of trouble and prevent much mischief; it is not yet too late.
                    "Brothers, what can be the inducement for you to undertake an
                        enterprise when there is so little probability of success? Do you really
                        think that the handful of men that you have about you are able to contend
                        with the Seventeen Fires, or even that the whole of the tribes united could
                        contend against the Kentucky fire alone? Brothers, I am myself of the Long
                        Knife fire [Virginia and Kentucky]. As soon as they hear my voice you will
                        see them pouring forth their swarms of hunting-shirt men, as numerous  as the mosquitoes on the shores of the
                        Wabash. Brothers, take care of their stings. Brothers, it is not our wish to
                        hurt you; if we did, we certainly have power to do it. Look at the number of
                        our warriors to the east of you, above and below the Great Miami; to the
                        south on both sides of the Ohio, and below you also. You are brave men, but
                        what could you do against such a multitude?—but we wish you to live in
                        peace and happiness.
                    "Brothers, the citizens of this country are alarmed. They must be
                        satisfied that you have no design to do them mischief, or they will not lay
                        aside their arms. You have also insulted the government of the United States
                        by seizing the salt that was inended for other tribes;
                        satisfaction must be given for that also. Brothers, you talk of coming to
                        see me, attended by all your young men; this, however, must not be so. If
                        your intentions are good, you have need to bring but a few of your young men
                        with you. I must be plain with you; I will not suffer you to come into our
                        settlements with such a force.
                    "Brothers, if you wish to satisfy us that your intentions are good,
                        follow the advice I have given you before: that is, that one or both of you
                        should visit the President of the United States and lay your grievances
                        before him. He will treat you well, will 
                        listen to what you say, and if you can show him that you have been injured,
                        you will receive justice. If you will follow my advice in this respect it
                        will convince the citizens of this country and myself that you have no
                        design to attack them. Brothers, with respect to the lands that were
                        purchased last fall, I can enter into no negotiations with you on that
                        subject; the affair is in the hands of the President. If you wish to go and
                        see him, I will supply you with the means.
                    "Brothers, the person who delivers this is one of my war officers.
                        He is a man in whom I have en confidence. Whatever be says to you,
                        although  may not be contained in this paper, you may believe
                        comes from me.
                    "My friend Tecumseh, the bearer is a good man and a brave warrior. I
                        hope you will treat him well. You are yourself a warrior, and all such
                        should have steem for each other."
                    Captain Wilson, the bearer of this message, was well received at Tippecanoe,
                        and Tecumseh, who had much appreciation for a brave warrior, treated him
                        with particular friendship.
                    He sent this answer back to the governor:—
                    "BROTHER: I give you a few words until I will be with you myself.
                        Brother, at Vincennes, I wish you to listen to me whilst I send you a few
                        words, and  I hope they will ease your heart.
                        I know you look on your young men and young women and children with pity, to
                        see them so alarmed. Brother, I wish you now to examine what you have from
                        me. I hope it will be a satisfaction to you, if your intentions are like
                        mine, to wash away all these bad stories that have been circulated. I will
                        be with you myself in eighteen days from this day.
                    "Brother, we cannot say what will become of us, as the Great Spirit
                        has the management of us all at his will. I may be there before the time,
                        and may not be there until the day. I hope that when we come together all
                        these bad tales will be settled. By this I hope your young men, women and
                        children will be easy. I wish you, brother, to let them know when I come to
                        Vincennes and see you, all will be settled in peace and happiness. Brother,
                        these are only a few words to let you know that I will be with you myself;
                        and when I am with you I can inform you better. Brother, if I find I can be
                        with you in less than eighteen days, I will send one of my young men before
                        me to let you know the time I will be with you."
                    Early in July, Governor Harrison received word from Illinois that some
                        murders had been committed in that territory, it was believed by Shawnees.
                        He also received information that the attack was to be  begun in Illinois to cover the main object, an attack on
                        Vincennes. Both territories were now thrown into a state of alarm, and the
                        inhabitants sent official notification to the Secretary of War that they
                        would protect themselves if the government did not take measures to protect
                        them.
                    In a letter to the Secretary of War, Governor Harrison said, with regard to
                        Tecumseh: "Upon being told that I would not suffer him to come with
                        so large a force, he promised to bring with him a few men only. I shall not,
                        however, depend upon this promise, but shall have the river watched by a
                        party of scouts after the descent of the chief, lest he should be followed
                        by his warriors. I do not think this will be the case. The detection of the
                        hostile designs of an Indian is generally for that time to defeat them. The
                        hopes of an expedition, conducted through many hundred miles of toil and
                        difficulty, are abandoned frequently upon the slightest suspicion, their
                        painful steps retraced, and a more favorable moment expected. With them, the
                        surprise of an enemy bestows more 
                            $cAclat upon a warrior than the most brilliant success
                        obtained by other means. Tecumseh had taken for his model the celebrated
                        Pontiac, and I am persuaded he will bear a favorable comparison in every
                        respect with that far-famed warrior."
                    
                    Tecumseh made his visit to Vincennes during the latter part of July. He could
                        not travel without a proper retinue, and was accompanied at this time by
                        three hundred Indians, of whom thirty were women and children.
                    An arbor was built for the council. At this the chief was attended by one
                        hundred and seventy warriors, without guns, but armed either with knives and
                        tomahawks or bows and arrows.
                    The governor opened the council. He made reference to the murders in Illinois
                        and the alarm Tecumseh had created on the Wabash by his passage with so
                        large a force. He said he would listen to what Tecumseh or any of the other
                        chiefs might have to say about the purchase of land on the Wabash, but he
                        could enter into no negotiation about it, as the matter was in the hands of
                        the President. He then spoke of the seizure of the salt, and demanded an
                        explanation. Tecumseh replied, admitting that the salt had been seized, but
                        he said it was during his absence, and that he was also away the spring
                        before when the salt was refused. He said it seemed impossible to please the
                        governor: last year he was angry because the salt was refused, and this year
                        he was just as much displeased because it was taken. At this point the
                        council adjourned for the day. When it was opened the next day a long speech
                        was made  by a Wea chief with regard to all
                        the treaties that had been made by the governor of Indiana. The governor
                        then told Tecumseh that if he would give up the two Pottawatomies who had
                        murdered the white n, it would show him to be sincere in his
                        profes of friendship to the United States and of desire 
                        preserve peace. Tecumseh replied that he had been at great pains
                        to induce all the Northern tribes of Indians to unite and place themselves
                        under him; that the whites were alarmed unnecessarily at his measures, which
                        meant peace. He said the United tes had set him the example of
                        forming a union ong all the Fires. The Indians, he said, did not
                        plain of it, and their white brethren ought not to ain
                        of the Indians doing the same thing among tribes. As soon as the
                        council was over, he d he intended to set out on a visit to the
                        Southern s of Indians to prevail upon them to unite with
                         Northern. He said the murderers were not at  town, and
                        if they were, he could not deliver them  he had set the whites an
                        example of forgiveness of injuries, and they ought to imitate him. He said
                        he hoped that nothing would be done toward settling the new purchase until
                        his return the following spring. A great number of Indians were coming, he
                        said, to settle at Tippecanoe, and would need the land for a hunting ground;
                        and if they did no more injury, they  might at
                        least kill the cattle and hogs of the white people, and that this would make
                        disturbances, and he wished all to remain quiet until his return, when he
                        would visit the President and settle all difficulties with him. It was now
                        night, and the governor closed the council, saying that the moon which they
                        saw would sooner fall to the ground than the President would suffer his
                        people to be murdered with impunity, and that he would put petticoats on his
                        warriors sooner than give up a country which he had fairly bought from its
                        true owners. Harrison had ordered a parade of the whole militia of the
                        country on the day of Tecumseh's arrival; and by the maneuvering of
                        the garrison, in making frequent reliefs of one company by another, he made
                        it appear stronger than it was, and he hoped to convince the chief that
                        Vincennes was guarded by a vigilance that defied surprise.
                    A Pottawatomie, called the Deaf Chief, from his being hard of hearing, was
                        present at this council. He told the governor, in the presence of other
                        Indians, after it was over, that if he had been called upon he would have
                        confronted Tecumseh when he denied that his intentions were hostile. This
                        was quickly reported to Tecumseh, who calmly intimated to the Prophet that
                        on his return to Tippecanoe the Deaf Chief must be put out of the way. He
                        was  informed of his danger by a friend, but
                        was not in the least intimidated. He returned to his camp, put on his war
                        dress, painted himself elaborately, armed himself with rifle, tomahawk,
                        war-club, and scalping-knife, and paddled in his canoe to the camp of
                        Tecumseh. The interpreter, Mr. Baron, was there in conversation with
                        Tecumseh. The Deaf Chief reproached Tecumseh for having ordered his death,
                        saying it was an act unworthy of a warrior.
                    "Here I am now," said he; "come and kill
                        me." Tecumseh made no answer.
                    "You, and your men," continued the Deaf Chief,
                        "can kill the white people's hogs and call them bears, but
                        you dare not face a warrior."
                    Tecumseh remained calmly silent. The Pottawatomie abused him in every way he
                        could, in order to rouse his anger and tempt him to fight, calling him a
                        slave of the red-coats, and finally using a term of reproach that can never
                        be forgotten by an Indian. Tecumseh, however, did not for a moment lose his
                        calm dignity, and the Deaf Chief gave the war-whoop of defiance and paddled
                        off. There is reason to suppose that Tecumseh's orders were not
                        disobeyed, however, for the Pottawatomie was never again seen at
                        Vincennes.
                    Tecumseh set off from Vincennes for the South in a few days, attended by
                        twenty warriors. He was  now nearing the
                        accomplishment of his great plan. On his return from this visit he would
                        have his confederacy formed and be ready to act. But Harrison had determined
                        not to await Tecumseh's readiness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    GETTING READY FOR WAR.
                    IN a letter to the War Department with regard to this
                        council, Governor Harrison speaks of "the implicit obedience and
                        respect which the followers of Tecumseh pay to him," as wonderful.
                        He says: "If it were not for the vicinity of the United States, he
                        would perhaps be the founder of an empire that would rival in glory Mexico
                        or Peru. No difficul deter him. For four years he has been in
                        connt motion. You see him to-day on the Wabash,  in a
                        short time hear of him on the shores of  Erie or Michigan, or on
                        the banks of the Mississppi; and wherever he goes he
                        makes an impres favorable to his purpose. He is now upon the
                         round to put a finishing stroke to his work. I 
                        however, before his return," says the general,  that part
                        of the work which he considered plete will be demolished, and even
                        its foundation rooted up."
                    It appears that though the power of Tecumseh over most of his followers was
                        founded on their affection for him, some were subdued by fear alone,  and the moment Tecumseh had left Vincennes
                        for the South they took occasion to express their strong discontent.
                    We have only some fragments of the history of Tecumseh's visit to
                        the Southern Indians. One traveler among the Creeks or Muskogees heard that
                        Tecumseh "came more than a thousand miles, from the borders of
                        Canada," to visit that nation and to persuade them to go to war
                        with the English against the Americans whenever he gave notice. A midnight
                        council of the chiefs was held, an eloquent speech was made by Tecumseh, and
                        the Creeks unanimously decided to "take up the hatchet"
                        when he should command.
                    From another writer we get an account of Tecumseh's work with the
                        Seminoles and neighboring tribes in Florida. Among them he was also
                        successful. He told them that on a particular day a certain vessel of the
                        "red-coats," filled with arms and supplies for the
                        Indians, would be off the coast of Florida. Tecumseh prepared them a
                        calendar, showing the day on which they were to strike the white
                        settlements. This he did by making little bundles of sticks which he painted
                        red. Each bundle contained sticks equal to the number of days that would
                        pass before the one arrived which he had indicated to them. Every morning
                        they were to throw away a  stick. Thus it came
                        to pass that the Seminoles, in the war which followed, became widely known
                        under the name of "Red Sticks." Tecumseh was very cautious
                        in his operations. He directed the Indians to answer any inquiry that might
                        be made as to why he had come from so for, saying that he had told them to
                        till the ground, to abstain from the use of "fire-water,"
                        and to live peaceably with the white people.
                    From Florida he journeyed to Alabama, where he visited the Creeks of that
                        region. Here we again hear of Tecumseh working upon the superstitious fears
                        of the Indians. He was very successful until he reached the town of
                        Tuckabatchee, on the Tallapoosa River. In this place he addressed the
                        council of the nation, and met a silent opponent in the principal chief, Big
                        Warrior. Tecumseh divined the feelings of this chief. He angrily stamped his
                        feet on the ground, and looking into the eyes of Big Warrior, said:—
                    "Your blood is white. You have taken my talk, and the sticks, and
                        the wampum, and the hatchet, but you do not mean to fight. I know the
                        reason. You do not believe the Great Spirit has sent me. You shall know. I
                        leave Tuckabatchee directly and shall go straight to Detroit; when I arrive
                        there, I will stamp on the ground with my foot, and shake  down all the houses in
                        Tuckabatchee." Tecumseh lft them, and it chanced in a few
                        weeks that the famous earthquake of New Madrid, in which a large tract of
                        land on the Mississippi sank, occurred, and demolished every house in
                        Tuckabatchee. The Indians exclaimed, "Tecumseh has got to
                        Detroit!" How much fact there is in the story we do not know, but
                        such a story will grow, and the later versions of this one have it that the
                        earthquake took place on the very day of Tecumseh's arrival in
                        Detroit. Without this addition the coincidence was sufficiently remarkable
                        for Indian superstition. Warriors took up their rifles and prepared for war;
                        prophets and witches became numerous, and murders were committed on the
                        frontier. A company of Indians under Little Warrior, who had been on a visit
                        to Tecumseh, butchered several families in Tennessee on the return
                        journey.
                    Tecumseh was very successful in his Southern mission, and turned toward home
                        with his plan at last matured for the accomplishment of his great purpose.
                        He passed through the tribes in Missouri, and on the Des Moines River, and
                        crossed rapidly to the Wabash to find his capital destroyed and his plans
                        come to naught.
                    Tecumseh had told Governor Harrison that he would remain a year in the South.
                        The governor  had information, however, that
                        Tecumseh did not intend to stay more than three months. A Pottawatomie
                        chief, who still remained friendly to the United States, said he was present
                        when a message was delivered to the Prophet from the agent of the English
                        government to the effect that it was time to take up the hatchet, and
                        inviting him to send to Malden for the supplies that were needed.
                    The last council with Tecumseh was not at all sattactory to the
                        inhabitants of Indiana. The great chief had gone to the South to extend his
                        hostile federacy, and every bit of tidings that reached 
                        settlements from the Indians tended to increase he alarm. The citizens of
                        Vincennes and its vicinity et and sent memorials to the President,
                        requesting  protection, and saying that if this were not
                        acled they would be obliged to defend themselves.
                    The protection, and saying that if this were not acded they would
                        be obliged to defend themselves. The President ordered the Fourth Regiment,
                        under Colonel Boyd, to service under the governor of Indiana, but strongly
                        impressed upon him the desiraty of maintaining peace if possible.
                        The government did not wish, however, that murder or robbery ould
                        be committed by the Indians without punishment, or that a confederacy should
                        be allowed to "avail itself of success," because of
                        neglect in meeting and defeating it. It would have been better to have
                        tinguished Tecumseh's empire even at an earlier  day. Every sign of weakness or tardiness is
                        unfortunate in dealing with savages. In August, Harrison sent speeches to
                        all the neighboring Indian tribes, demanding that those who had murdered
                        American citizens should be delivered up, and that the Miamis in particular
                        should prove that they had no connection with the confederacy. He directed
                        his agent to use every influence to bring the Indians to a sense of duty,
                        and to warn them that those who took up the tomahawk against the United
                        States would be severely punished. This brought a party of Indians from the
                        Prophet's Town, in September, with great professions of peace.
                    About the same time, however, some horses were stolen, and tracked to
                        Tippecanoe. Here they were returned to the pursuing party, but were again
                        recaptured by the Indians, who seemed to regret having given them up.
                    On the 26th of September, Governor Harrison, in command of a military
                        expedition against the Tippecanoe confederacy, left Vincennes. He encamped
                        at a spot on the Wabash where, according to Indian tradition, a battle had
                        been fought between the Illinois and Iroquois Indians. This place was called
                        by the French settlers "Bataille des Illinois." Here a
                        fort was built, and called Fort Harrison by request of the soldiers.
                    
                    The governor had sent to the Delawares asking that some of their chiefs
                        should meet his army upon the Wabash, in order that they might act in
                        missions to the different tribes who were implicated in the
                        Prophet's confederacy. All the chiefs of this friendly nation who
                        were able to march set out to comply with the governor's request.
                        They had gone but a few miles when they were met by a party from Tippecanoe,
                        asking "whether they would or would not join them in the war
                        against the United States," and saying "that they had
                        taken up the tomahawk, and would not lay it down but with their lives. They
                        had, however, positive assurances of victory, and when they had beaten the
                        Americans, those tribes which refused to join them would have cause to
                        repent it." Sending a messenger to Harrison to inform him of this,
                        the Delaware chiefs set out to visit the Prophet.
                    About this time a sentinel in Harrison's camp was fired upon by the
                        Indians and severely wounded.
                    The governor was now desirous of attacking the Prophet immediately, knowing
                        that Tecumseh might soon return, and feeling no doubt that the Prophet was
                        determined on war. Harrison was delayed, however, by defective arrangements
                        in regard to provisions for the expedition, and by this delay he was much
                        annoyed.
                    
                    The governor had hoped that the advance of his army would frighten the
                        Tippecanoe Indians into submission. This, however, was not the case, though
                        it made a strong impression upon some of the tribes. The Miami chiefs
                        started to visit the governor, and the Weas said that they would never
                        return to the Prophet.
                    On the 27th of October, the Delaware chiefs, who had gone to make a visit to
                        the Prophet, returned. They said that the Prophet had insulted them, making
                        contemptuous remarks upon them and scoffing at the governor. The Prophet had
                        received them with bad grace, treated them ill, and finally dismissed them.
                        They left him practicing his "infernal rites," while he
                        and his followers danced the war-dance every night. While they were there
                        the Indians who had wounded the sentincl in Harrison's
                        camp returned. The Delawares said they were Shawnees and near friends of the
                        Prophet.
                    The Prophet had threatened to burn the first prisoners he should take. The
                        interpreters were so frightened that it was almost impossible to get them to
                        the front of the army. The governor therefore accepted an offer made by some
                        of the Delawares and the Miamis to carry a message to the Prophet's
                        Town. Governor Harrison demanded of them that Winnebagoes, Pottawatomies,
                        and Kickapoos, who  were at Tippecanoe, should
                        return to their tribes; that stolen horses should be restored, and murderers
                        of white people delivered up.
                    The deputation which bore this message never returned. It is supposed that
                        the Miamis took part in the battle which followed, as they afterwards
                        confessed to having been near when the action took place.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII.
                    THE BATTLE OF TIPPECANOE.
                    ON the 29th of October, 1811, the army marched out of Fort
                        Harrison, leaving behind them a garrison of invalid soldiers. Governor
                        Harrison's force consisted of about nine hundred men, including
                        some volunteers from Kentucky, who, with a love of conflict characteristic
                        of Kentuckians, had requested the privilege of joining in the expedition,
                        and who met him on the way. There were two routes used by the Indians in
                        journeying to Tippecanoe. The one on the south-east side of the Wabash was
                        the shorter, but it was woody and very favorable to Indian ambuscades.
                        Harrison thought best, for this reason, to take the route on the north-west
                        bank of the river, but in order to deceive the enemy, who were closely
                        watching him, he had the route on the south-east side of the river
                        reconnoitered and opened into a wagon road. Upon this the army marched for a
                        short distance, when, suddenly crossing the Wabash, they took the other
                        route. No signs of Indians were seen until the troops reached a very
                        dangerous pass at Pine Creek. This creek ran between high cliffs of  rock surmounted with pine and cedar trees.
                        The crossing of the trail on which the troops were marching was very
                        difficult, and afforded a chance for a few Indians to successfully oppose a
                        large force. In 1786, and again in 1790, the Indians had availed themselves
                        of this bad crossing for the purpose of resisting in the first instance an
                        expedition under General Clark, and in the second a detachment of General
                        Harmar's troops. The governor sent out a body of men in the night
                        to search for a better pass. They returned the next day and reported that
                        they had found a good ford, which had evidently been used by the Indians,
                        where a prairie skirted the creek. The army crossed at this place in safety,
                        and were filled with admiration at the beauty of the great prairie, which
                        stretched away nearly a hundred miles to the Illinois River.
                    On the night of the 5th of November, the troops encamped within ten miles of
                        the Prophet's Town. Still no Indians were seen, although there were
                        everywhere traces of scouting parties. On the following day, however, within
                        five or six miles of the town, some parties of Indians were seen, and the
                        interpreters in front of the army were directed to communicate with them.
                        The Indians gave them no answer but threatening and insulting gestures.
                    When they arrived within a mile and a half of the  town, General Harrison resolved to encamp for the night. He
                        was urged to attack the town immediately, but his instructions were to avoid
                        war if possible; and he also hoped for the return of the friendly Indians
                        whom he had sent to the Prophet's Town to meet him. He decided to
                        advance, however, sending Captain Dubois forward with a flag of truce.
                        Dubois did not succeed in opening any negotiation with the Indians, who
                        refused to answer his interpreter, and tried to cut him off from the main
                        army. General Harrison now hesitated no longer about attacking the Indians.
                        They, however, had no thought of fighting without a surprise. Harrison was
                        soon met by a deputation of three Indians, one of whom was the
                        Prophet's chief counselor. They innocently inquired the reason of
                        the army's advancing upon them. The Prophet, they said, wished to
                        keep peace if possible, and had sent a specific message by the chiefs who
                        had come to him from the governor, but that they had unfortunately returned
                        on the south side of the Wabash, and thus missed him. The general readily
                        agreed to suspend hostilities and to meet the Indians the next day for the
                        purpose of treating for peace. He told the deputation that he would go to
                        the Wabash and encamp there for the night. The army marched on toward the
                        town in order to find a good place for encampment. When they neared the  town the order of troops was changed to suit
                        the uneven character of the country. This maneuver alarmed the suspicious
                        savages, who immediately prepared for defence. The governor rode forward,
                        called some Indians to him, and assured them that he had no intentions of
                        attacking them. Some officers were sent out to select a suitable place for
                        the camp, and this having been decided upon, the army settled itself for the
                        night in order of battle, the men sleeping on their arms. They were much
                        dissatisfied that there was no prospect of fighting. Some of those who were
                        more experienced in Indian ways were not so sure of this, however.
                    A strange and exciting night was this in the town of the Indian Prophet. This
                        place thus rudely invaded was a sacred spot, the very centre and capital of
                        the new religious fanaticism, where all its mysterious rites were performed.
                        It was, according to their leader, a place chosen for them by the Great
                        Spirit; like Jerusalem among the Jews, the peculiar home of religion and of
                        patriotism. The fortifications which surrounded the town were impregnable to
                        white troops, so the Prophet told them. And now the strength of their faith
                        and of their arms was to be tested.
                    Had Tecumseh been at home, matters might have ended differently. He had left
                        orders that war was  to be avoided during his
                        absence at all hazards. Whether or not there had sprung up a jealousy
                        between the brothers, apparently so firmly united, we shall never know. But
                        it would have taken more magnanimity than the Prophet possessed to have seen
                        with composure the rapid rise of Tecumseh's fame and power,
                        eclipsing and absorbing the glory of his spiritual influence. He found
                        himself surrounded by impetuous warriors, among them the flower of the
                        Winnebago braves, and his force was in no way inferior to that of the white
                        troops under Governor Harrison, who were in an unfortified camp. His men
                        were worked up to the highest pitch of fanatical zeal, and never were
                        Indians known to be so fierce and brave. Early in the evening the Indians
                        held a council and formed a plan. The Indian chiefs were to meet the whites
                        in council the next day. They were to agree to all of Harrison's
                        proposals. They were then to retire a short distance to where their warriors
                        were to be stationed. Two Indians were to remain behind and assassinate the
                        governor. To this purpose some Winnebagoes had religiously devoted their
                        lives. The battle was then to begin. The night was dark and cloudy; the moon
                        did not rise until late, and a drizzling rain soon set in. The Indians
                        probably occupied the time in war preparations, and in the observance of the
                        juggling ceremonies by which the  Prophet so
                        well succeeded in exciting their savage passions, while he, at the very
                        summit of his importance, doubtless prophesied and boasted as usual. It is
                        said that he concocted a composition, said incantations over, and then told
                        his followers that one-half of Harrison's army was now dead, and
                        that the other half was crazy, and it would be a small matter for the
                        Indians to finish their destruction with their tomahawks. During this dark
                        night the plan was changed, and before four o'clock the whole force
                        of the Prophet's braves were creeping through the grass upon the
                        sentinels around the American camp.
                    Governor Harrison was accustomed to arouse his men an hour before daylight
                        and keep them on their guard until the sun rose. On the morning of the 7th
                        of November he had just risen and was pulling on his boots before a
                        camp-fire and conversing with several of his officers, while the drummer was
                        being roused preparatory to calling up the men. Suddenly a single shot was
                        heard, followed by the wild Indian yell which was the nightmare of all who
                        slept in the Indian country. A sentinel had discovered an Indian creeping
                        upon him and had fired. Immediately the war-whoop sounded on all hands, and
                        the whole Tippecanoe force, commanded by White Loon, Stone Eater, and
                        Winnemac, the Pottawatomie chief who had professed so much friendship for
                        the governor,  was upon them in an instant.
                        The guard gave way at the point of attack, but the men who had been sleeping
                        on their arms were immediately prepared to receive the Indians bravely,
                        although the suddenness of the charge was sufficient to have excited a
                        panic. The camp-fires were instantly put out, in order that the Indians
                        might not have the assistance of their light. In two minutes every soldier
                        was on his feet prepared for action; officers hurried to their posts, and
                        the battle soon raged on all sides. The Prophet, in virtue of his sacred
                        office, and perhaps, as is suggested, unwilling "to attest at once
                        the rival powers of a sham prophecy and a real American bullet,"
                        did not take part in the battle, but stationed himself on a small hill near
                        at hand where he chanted a war-song, and presided like an evil genius, as
                        the Indians soon had reason to think, over this battle in the darkness. With
                        characteristic fanaticism or infatuation, he had prophesied that the
                        American bullets would rebound harmless from the bodies of the Indians, and
                        that they would be provided with light, while all would be "thick
                        darkness" to their enemies. He had evidently heard of Moses and
                        Pharaoh. Both parties were embarrassed by the terrible darkness.
                    Messengers informed the Prophet soon after the battle began that his
                        followers were falling in the most natural way. He sent back orders for them
                        to  persevere, saying that his prophecy would
                        soon be fulfilled. His wild, inspiring war-song then rose above the crack of
                        firearms and the Indian war-whoop.
                    The Indians made use of deer hoofs instead of drums to signal an advance or
                        retreat; making with them certain rattling sounds. Never were savages known
                        to battle more desperately. They quite abandoned their practice of fighting
                        stealthily and from behind shelter. Under the influence of the fierce
                        fanaticism in which they had so long been steeped, they braved the whites in
                        open battle, rushing right upon their bayonets. They were also stimulated by
                        the superior bravery of the Winnebagoes who were among them. The conflict
                        lasted until shortly after daylight, when with a last charge the troops
                        succeeded in putting the Indians to flight.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    INCIDENTS OF THE BATTLE.
                    DURING the battle Harrison rode from one side of the camp
                        to another, disposing his troops and conducting them in person so as to give
                        the best support to the side attacked. He was begged not to expose himself
                        so much, and his officers even took hold of his bridle rein to detain him.
                        But he persisted in being where the fire was hottest, and his courage and
                        coolness did much to keep the men steady under this deadly fire in the
                        darkness of the night, and in the ghastly gray dawning of that bloody
                        morning.
                    At one time Harrison saw an ensign, a Frenchman, standing behind a tree. He
                        reproached him with cowardice, and told him he ought to be ashamed to be
                        under shelter when his men were exposed. The Frenchman, when the battle was
                        over, complained bitterly. "I was not behind de tree," he
                        said; "de tree was before me. Dere was de tree, here was my
                        position; how can I help? I cannot move de tree; I cannot leaf my
                        position."
                    Toward the close of the action, the troops in 
                        charging passed over the body of a major who had been killed. He was lying
                        on his face; in person and uniform he was much like the governor, and
                        Harrison having been seen not long before in that part of the field, word
                        was soon passed along the line that the governor had been killed; but a
                        minute later the men saw him riding down the front of their line and greeted
                        him with cheers of joy.
                    And indeed Harrison escaped narrowly several times. It was part of the plan
                        of the Indians to kill him at all hazards. Besides the conspiracy to slay
                        him treacherously by assassination in the council the next day, there were
                        other attempts of the same kind. While the troops were taking position for
                        the night, three Indians were reported to the governor as having followed
                        them, and as being within the lines at that time. Whether they came only as
                        spies, or, as is more likely, to kill the commander, cannot be known. They
                        were immediately sent back to the Prophet's Town with a message to
                        the Prophet to return to the governor a negro who had deserted under
                        suspicious circumstances.
                    This negro's name was Ben. He was employed as bullock driver by the
                        contractor. While the troops were passing the Indian town to find their
                        place of encampment, he declared that he was not afraid to go in. Two
                        negroes who were with him doubted this,  and
                        he immediately started to the town, whereupon two Indians came out and
                        conducted him in. The governor immediately directed the interpreter to call
                        the Indians and tell them to send him back. This they promised to do. The
                        three Indians who had followed the army denied that they knew of the
                        negro's having gone into the town, but said that he should be sent
                        out as soon as they could reach the town. But Ben did not appear until some
                        time after dark, when a Captain Wilson discovered him near the tent of the
                        commander, apparently examining its situation. He seized him, and with the
                        assistance of others, dragged him up to the fire. The negro said that the
                        Indians took him into the town by force, and had sent him back on the return
                        of the three Indians from Harrison's camp. He had passed the
                        sentinels without being challenged, he said, and had come to report to the
                        governor. But as he had not been in the quarters of the
                        contractor's men, and had not spoken to any one since his return,
                        it seemed clear that he was acting in the interest of the Indians. It is
                        probable that he either meant to slay the governor himself in the battle,
                        or, what is more likely, to guide Indians to his tent. Harrison himself says
                        that this would not have been difficult to do. Captain Wilson remembered
                        seeing him throw something out of his hand when he was seized. He went to
                        the place and  found a high cap, made to look
                        on the outside like the cap of a grenadier. Ben said that an Indian had
                        taken away his hat and had given him this cap.
                    Ben was secured by General Wells and Colonel Owen, who were old Indian
                        fighters, in the Indian manner, they not having any handcuffs to put on him.
                        He was thrown on his back, then his ankles were inserted in notches cut in a
                        split log, which was then closed around them and held together by forks
                        driven over the log in the ground; his arms were extended and tied to
                        stakes. He was sentenced to death for desertion, by a drum-head
                        court-martial, held the next day, and the sentence was approved by the
                        general, but never executed; for as the poor negro lay in his uneasy
                        position by the evening's fire, he kept turning his eyes
                        imploringly on Harrison, and the tender heart of the commander was so much
                        affected that he could not afterward give the final order for his execution;
                        but he got together all the commissioned officers, and told them they should
                        decide the negro's fate. Some were for executing him; and he would
                        no doubt have been shot had it not been for Captain Snelling, who pleaded
                        for his life. "Brave comrades," he said, "let us
                        save him. The wretch deserves to die; but as our commander, whose life was
                        more particularly his object, is willing to spare him, let us also forgive
                        him." The  negro was discharged when
                        the troops reached Vincennes.
                    Harrison had two horses: the one on which he would have ridden during the
                        battle was white. This white mare was saddled and bridled ready for
                        mounting. In the night she pulled up the picket to which she was tied and
                        got loose. The governor's servant tied her to the wagon wheel, but
                        the fellow was so "confoundedly frightened," to use
                        Harrison's expression, that he could not remember, when the battle
                        began, where he had put her. Major Taylor lent Harrison his horse; and one
                        of Harrison's aids, who rode a remarkably white horse, was killed
                        before they reached the point first attacked. It is believed that he was
                        killed by one or two Indians who had entered the lines, and who mistook him
                        for the governor.
                    Harrison's hat rim was perforated, and his hair grazed by a ball
                        during the night.
                    The loss in killed was fifty, including those who died soon after, and the
                        total loss was one hundred and eighty-eight in killed and wounded. The
                        Indians left thirty-eight dead upon the battlefield, which with those they
                        carried with them must have made the loss equal to that on the American
                        side. This large loss on their part was quite surprising, for in their
                        ordinary mode of fighting, by firing from lurking places and in ambuscade,
                        it is not possible to kill  many Indians. The
                        Indians chewed their bullets so to make a lacerated wound; to this is
                        attributed the large proportion of the wounded who died.
                    Some of the militia evinced great daring. One young man, finding the lock of
                        his gun out of order, in spite of the remonstrances of his comrades, went up
                        to the fire, and, having made a light, remained there until he had fixed it.
                        The light made him a good target; a great number of shots were fired at him,
                        but he escaped unhurt. A Winnebago chief also went up to a fire at a point
                        where the American lines had been pushed back. He sat there pecking his
                        flint, but a rifle ball killed him, and he fell forward into the fire. We
                        are sorry to have to say that a regular soldier went out to scalp him, but
                        the soldier being a New Englander did not understand the barbarous practice.
                        He was a long time accomplishing his object, and when he returned with his
                        hideous trophy he brought back also his death-wound. Though the body of the
                        chief lay in close proximity to the American lines, it was borne off by the
                        Indians, and was afterward found in the town.
                    The battle was fought in the early morning of the 7th. The whole of that day
                        was spent in caring for the wounded, and in fortifying the angles of the
                        camp. The soldiers had no meat this day but broiled horse-flesh.
                    
                    On the morning of the 8th, General Wells, with the dragoons and mounted
                        riflemen, reconnoitered the famous town, but the Prophet's capital
                        was deserted. There was found a great quantity of corn, which was most
                        acceptable to the troops; there were also hogs and some domestic fowl, for
                        these Indians were somewhat more civilized than the wild bands of the plains
                        which we know to-day. The pork and fowls were kept for the wounded. The town
                        had been abandoned in a panic; all household utensils were left, and many
                        arms, some of which were new and yet wrapped in the coverings in which they
                        had been imported.
                    The only living human being in the village was a chief with a broken leg. The
                        General and his men burned the Indian houses, destroyed their corn and brass
                        kettles. The whites dressed the wounds of the chief, and made other
                        provision for him, and told him to say to the Indians that if they would
                        leave the Prophet and return to their own tribes they would be forgiven.
                    After everything which the army needed was taken, the brass kettles were
                        destroyed and the town was burned. The troops slowly returned, greatly
                        encumbered with their wounded, who filled all the wagons. The governor
                        ordered the destruction of  baggage, and set
                        his officers the example by throwing all his camp furniture into the
                        fire.
                    Though small parties of Indians appeared, the troops were not molested on
                        their return. The Prophet's influence was broken forever, and in
                        Tecumseh's absence there was none to rally the scattered
                        savages.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    TECUMSEH'S RETURN.
                    GOVERNOR HARRISON did not strike too
                        soon. A few days after the battle of Tippecanoe Tecumseh returned, to find
                        his town destroyed, his followers scattered, and the Prophet in disgrace.
                        Great must have been his disappointment at the overthrow of his plans. One
                        does not wonder that when he first met his disobedient and unwise regent,
                        the Prophet, he reproached him with severity for having disregarded his
                        command to keep peace with the United States at all hazards. The Prophet
                        tried to excuse himself, but the exasperated Tecumseh took him by the hair
                        and shook him, threatening to kill him.
                    Sudden indeed was the fall of Tenskwatawa, and deep his disgrace. On
                        returning from battle the Indians accused him of being a murderer.
                    "You are a liar," said a Winnebago to him, "for
                        you told us that the white people were dead or crazy, when they were all in
                        their senses and fought like the devil."
                    The Prophet answered in dejection, that there had been some mistake in the
                        compounding of his concoction.  The Indians bound him and threatened to take his life, but he
                        never received any punishment at their hands, although, to prove their
                        peaceful intentions, they told the governor many stories about what they
                        meant to do to him. He lost the popularity which his position as a prophet
                        and wonderworker, the spiritual superior of the warrior Tecumseh, and the
                        defender of Indian rights, had given him, and became the mere Indian
                        boaster; he was found to be like $AEsop's braying donkey dressed in
                        a lion's skin.
                    Tecumseh's confederacy, the work of years of peril and difficulty,
                        seemed crushed at the first blow; and indeed his own immediate band was
                            scattered and his headquarters destroyed, but the
                        chief had wide influence over distant tribes. Though his plans were defeated
                        and his combination in a measure destroyed, the indefatigable Tecumseh still
                        persevered in his labor.
                    After leaving the scene of the battle, the Indians had gone about twenty
                        miles, to Wildcat Creek. Here most of them dispersed, going to the villages
                        of their different tribes, while the Winnebagoes started for their northern
                        home. The Prophet sent a message asking to be allowed to go back to his
                        town, but the governor warned him not to return.
                    On the 22d of November, the annual meeting to 
                        distribute annuities to the Indians was held. Chiefs and representatives
                        from the Delaware, Miami, Pottawatomic, and Shawnee nations were present,
                        while some Indians who had fought in the battle of Tippecanoe boldly came
                        and asked their part in the goods which were distributed. They said that the
                        Indians had imprisoned the Prophet and intended to punish him with death.
                        They succeeded in deceiving the Indian agent, but their story was not
                        strictly in accordance with fact, for the Prophet was at the time enjoying
                        his liberty at the village of Mississinewa. The agent made a speech to the
                        Indians, saying that the President wished to be friendly and at peace with
                        them, and would pardon them if they desired. The great Black Hoof answered
                        that they all wished to live in peace with the United States. In this the
                        Shawnees and most of the Delawares were sincere, but the Pottawatomics had
                        no such purpose. The aged Little Turtle of the Miamis was strongly in favor
                        of peace, but Tecumseh had much more influence among them than he did. Their
                        chief aim now was to secure their annuities.
                    Stone Eater, two Winnebagoes, a Kickapoo, and a Piankishaw made their
                        appearance at Fort Harrison before Christmas, and delivered a very contrite
                        speech to the commandant. They wished to be allowed to go to Vincennes and
                        visit the governor,  and this they were
                        permitted to do. Stone Eater's story was that the Prophet was
                        disgraced and had escaped to the Hurons.
                    In the winter Governor Harrison was visited by numbers of repentant Indians,
                        but neither Tecumseh nor the Prophet, nor indeed any of the most hostile
                        savages, made their appearance.
                    Little Turtle sent Governor Harrison a letter in January, 1812, in which he
                        said that the Prophet was deserted by all his band with the exception of two
                        camps of Shawness which Tecumseh had just joined with but eight men.
                    Soon after this the governor received a message from Tecumseh saying he had
                        returned from the South and would now visit the President. The governor
                        replied with a permission to go to Washington, but said that no other
                        Indians would be allowed to go with him. A sense of pride would not allow
                        this great chief, who aimed to be ruler over a confederacy like that of the
                        white men, to visit the chief of the Seventeen Fires without a proper
                        retinue. Tecumseh refused to go, and this was the last of his inter-course
                        with Harrison.
                    At the spring of 1812 came on, the frontier was again alarmed by Indian
                        depredations and murders.
                    Governor Harrison sent out Major Floyde to induce the more friendly tribes to
                        drive off the Prophet  and other disaffected
                        Indians. This had some effect, for a council of twelve tribes was held in
                        May at Mississinewa, in which Tecumseh and his band were first mildly
                        reproved by the Wyandots. Tecumseh made a speech in answer as follows
                        :—
                    "ELDER BROTHERS: We have listened to what you have said to us. We
                        thank the Great Spirit for inclining your hearts to pity us; we now pity
                        ourselves. Our hearts are good—they never were bad. Governor Harrison made
                        war on my people in my absence; it was the will of God that he should do so.
                        We hope it will please God that the white people may let us live in peace.
                        We will not disturb them, neither have we done it, except when they came to
                        our village with the intention of destroying us. We are happy to state to
                        our brothers present that the unfortunate transaction that took place
                        between the white people and a few of our young men at our village, has been
                        settled between us and Governor Harrison; and I will further state that had
                        I been at home there would have been no bloodshed at that time.
                    "We are sorry to find that the same respect has not been paid to the
                        agreement between us and Governor Harrison by our brothers the
                        Pottawatomies. However, we are not accountable for the conduct of those over
                        whom we have no control. Let the chiefs  of
                        that nation exert themselves and cause their warriors to behave themselves,
                        as we have and will continue to do ours.
                    "Should the bad acts of our brothers the Pottawatomies draw on us
                        the ill-will of our white brothers, and they should come again and make an
                        unprovoked attack on us at our village, we will die like men, but we will
                        never strike the first blow."
                    This exasperated the Pottawatomies, who excused the murders which had been
                        committed by members of their tribe, saying they were due to the influence
                        of the Shawnee Prophet, and were committed by young men over whom they had
                        no control. They spoke in contemptuous terms of the "pretended
                        Prophet." Tecumseh retorted thus :—
                    "It is true, we have endeavored to give all our brothers good
                        advice, and if they have not listened to it we are sorry for it. We defy a
                        living creature to say we ever advised any one, directly or indirectly, to
                        make war on our white brothers. It has constantly been our misfortune to
                        have our views misrepresented to our white brethren; this has been done by
                        pretended chiefs of the Pottawatomies and others, that have been in the
                        habit of selling land to the white people that did not belong to
                        them—"
                    Here the Delawares called Tecumseh to order, saying :—
                    
                    "We have not met at this place to listen to such words. . . . Our
                        white brethren are on their feet, their guns in their hands; there is no
                        time for us to tell each other you have done this, and you have done that;
                        if there was, we would tell the Prophet that both red and white people had
                        felt the bad effects of his counsels."
                    The Miamis then made a speech in which they threw all the blame upon the
                        other tribes, saying :—
                    "We hope our brothers, the Pottawatomies, Shawnees, Kickapoos, and
                        Winnebagoes, will keep their warriors in good order, and teach them to pay
                        more respect to their women and children than they have done by going and
                        murdering the innocent white people."
                    The Kickapoos then defended themselves in a speech, with which the council
                        closed. The tone of all the speeches was no doubt modified by the presence
                        of white people.
                    In June, Tecumseh visited Fort Wayne, where he demanded ammunition. His
                        bearing was very haughty, and he was firm in his old opinions. He evidently
                        felt much bitterness toward Harrison for the part he had had in the
                        overthrow of Tippecanoe. The agent made him a speech, endeavoring to induce
                        him to remain at peace with the Americans, but ammunition was refused him.
                        Tecumseh said that  he would not be denied by
                        his British father, and to him he would go. He remained thoughtful for some
                        time, and at last gave a war-whoop and left. Tecumseh went immediately to
                        Malden, where he joined the English.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    HULL'S SURRENDER.
                    THE main cause of dispute between England and America
                        which brought about the war of 1812, was the "right of
                        search" which England claimed over American vessels — that is,
                        the right to stop and search any American ship on the high seas. Every
                        British subject found in the crew of the searched vessel was seized and
                        impressed into the English navy.
                    The people of the United States were divided into two parties. The war party
                        still nursed the bitterness of the Revolution; but the Federalists, who
                        opposed war, held that the injuries of France were quite as great as those
                        of England. And indeed the country, new, and poor, was in no condition for a
                        war with Great Britain, and President Madison's better judgment was
                        against it. He, however, yielded to the dominant public sentiment, which was
                        for war. England was at the time engaged in a severe struggle with Napoleon,
                        and it was urged by those who advocated war that the acquisition of the
                        British possessions in America would be an easy thing. Some  concession was made on the part of England,
                        but too late, and in the month of June, 1812, war was declared.
                    In anticipation of this, a body of twelve hundred militia had been raised in
                        Ohio for the invasion of Upper Canada. The command of this expedition was
                        given to General Hull, an old Revolutionary officer, and the governor of
                        Michigan Territory. He was joined at Urbana by the Fourth Regiment, which
                        had fought with Harrison at Tippecanoe. This, with the militia of his own
                        territory, raised General Hull's force to about eighteen hundred.
                        The Indians were much inclined to follow Tecumseh's lead, but were
                        awe-struck by the march of so large a force as that under Hull toward
                        British America. He arrived at Detroit, and soon after crossed into Canada,
                        issuing a boastful proclamation to the inhabitants, offering protection to
                        those who would remain quiet. The capture of Malden, weakly garrisoned, was
                        now open to General Hull, but that incompetent officer delayed undertaking
                        this until he should have fortified his camp and waited for his proclamation
                        to take effect.
                    Meanwhile Tecumseh, with a few followers at Malden, was actively engaged on
                        the British side. On the 12th of June, the Prophet, whom the chief seems to
                        have taken into favor enough to use in any way  he could, appeared at Fort Wayne with about a hundred Winnebagoes and
                        Kickapoos, assuring the agent that he was friendly. Soon after he received
                        an express from Tecumseh. The messenger had stolen a horse at the River
                        Raisin, and ridden day and night. The message was an order from Tecumseh to
                        unite the Indians immediately, and send the women and children toward the
                        Mississippi, while the warriors struck Vincennes. Tecumseh promised, if he
                        lived, to meet them in the Winnebago country. The Prophet sent two Kickapoos
                        on stolen hores to rally the Indians. He then went sorrowfully to the agent
                        and said that two of his bad young men were gone, and he was afraid they had
                        stolen horses from the whites. He sent two Indians on foot
                        to catch the offenders.
                    When Hull crossed into Canada, Tecumseh was at Malden with a band of thirty
                        Shawnees and Pottawatomies. A council of the neutral Indians was held at
                        Brownstown, opposite Malden. Tecumseh was invited to attend this
                        council.
                    "No," said he; "I have taken sides with the King,
                        my father, and I will suffer my bones to bleach upon this shore before I
                        will recross that stream to join in any council of neutrality."
                    A small detachment sent out by General Hull to escort the mail and meet a
                        convoy of provisions  under Major Brush at the
                        River Raisin was surprised by about seventy Indians and forty British
                        soldiers in ambush. The detachment, under Major Van Horne, retreated with
                        considerable loss. This, the first action in the war of 1812, was commanded
                        on the part of the British by Tecumseh.
                    Meanwhile General Hull heard of the surrender of Fort Michilimackinac or
                        Mackinaw. This was an important post, being the only check to the Indians of
                        the upper lake region, and it should have been well garrisoned by the United
                        States government. But through some astonishing neglect, such as was too
                        common at this time, the garrison was weak, and the commandant had not so
                        much as received information of the declaration of war. His first knowledge
                        of the fact was the attack made on him by the English. This event so alarmed
                        the old American general, Hull, that he seems to have lost heart and head,
                        and to have abandoned every thought of offensive operations. It had a very
                        stimulant effect upon Tecumseh, however, who immediately sent messengers in
                        every direction to the Indians with the news that Mackinaw had fallen, that
                        a detachment of Americans had been defeated, that they would not attack
                        Malden, that success was certain on the part of the English, and if the
                        braves wished to share in the plunder they must join his side immediately.
                             The Indians, ever susceptible to the
                        influence of success, and especially to the chance for spoils, flocked to
                        Malden, and Tecumseh before long commanded a body of seven hundred
                        magnificent warriors.
                    It is related in the life of the famous chief Shaubena, that he and his band
                        of Pottawatomies were preparing to go on the winter hunt when two runners
                        from Tecumseh arrived at his village on the Illinois River. One of these men
                        was a half-breed and the other a petty chief. They bore a package of
                        presents, to be distributed ;principally among the squaws. These were rings,
                        beads, and various ornaments. Tecumseh sent the wampum to Shaubena with an
                        invitation for him and his band to join in the war against the United
                        States, with promise of large pay. Hunting was abandoned, and Shaubena with
                        twenty-two warriors started for Malden. Shaubena became Tecumseh's
                        aid, and was with him until his death.
                    Meanwhile General Hull's brave men were in a fever to attack Malden,
                        believing it could yet be taken. A "round robin" was even
                        proposed among the dissatisfied American soldiers, by which the colonels
                        were requested to displace their weak general and put the next officer in
                        rank in his place. Great was the mortification when on the 7th of August a
                        retreat from Canada was ordered. General Hull, however, sent out a
                        detachment of six hundred men  to open
                        communication with Ohio if possible. They came upon a large force of English
                        and Indians under Muir and Tecumseh, behind a breastwork of logs. From this
                        shelter the English fired, and the American commander immediately advanced
                        his whole line, fired upon the enemy, and then charged with fixed bayonets.
                        The English retreated; the Indians under Tecumseh's command held
                        out obstinately, but were nevertheless driven from their position. Tecumseh
                        and the British commander, Muir, were both wounded. This was known as the
                        battle of Brownstown. About this time Tecumseh was made a brigadier-general
                        in the British army. It is supposed that his stubborn bravery at Brownstown
                        was the cause of his appointment.
                    Major-General Brock, a brave and generous gentleman, was now in command of
                        operations at Malden. He was as much honored and respected by the Americans
                        as his successor, General Proctor, was afterwards despised. General Hull
                        sent out three hundred and fifty men on the 14th of August, under Colonels
                        McArthur and Cass, to reach the convoy under Captain Brush.
                    General Brock, after holding a council with Tecumseh, marched to Sandwich, a
                        place opposite Detroit. He sent a summons to General Hull to surrender. This
                        was refused. General Brock asked  Tecumseh
                        what kind of a country they must pass through if they crossed to the
                        American side. The chief took a roll of elm bark, spread it on the ground,
                        and fastening it there with four stones, took his scalping-knife and drew a
                        map of the country, representing its hills and woods, rivers, swamps, and
                        roads. When the troops came to embark for crossing, Tecumseh, on his own
                        motion, induced the Indians to cross first.
                    The American army had been impatient for a decisive engagement with their
                        enemies. This the timid policy of their leader had denied them. The soldiers
                        were now anxious at least to do something worthy of soldiers in defending
                        the fort. They were severely disappointed, however, for soon after the
                        opening of the British batteries, on the 16th of August, General Hull
                        surrendered, in opposition to the wishes of all his officers and men. Many
                        of the men shed tears on hearing of it, and threw down their arms in
                        rage.
                    Colonel McArthur's detachment returned soon after, being unable to
                        reach their destination for want of provisions, and having had nothing to
                        eat for several days. Great was their astonishment at finding the English
                        flag flying over Detroit, and the Indians engaged in killing the cattle
                        which had been provided for the American army. Colonel McArthur and his
                        associate Colonel Cass, seeing no hope for 
                        them in resistance, sent in a flag of truce. When the articles of
                        capitulation were shown to them, Colonel Cass, afterward eminent in American
                        history, thrust his sword into the ground with indignant tears and broke it
                        to pieces.
                    General Brock asked Tecumseh not to allow the Indians to abuse the
                        prisoners.
                    "No!" answered Tecumseh, "I despise them too much
                        to meddle with them."
                    On the 17th of August, the success of the British, which even they did not
                        call a victory, was celebrated. They had recovered at this surrender some
                        British cannon taken during the Revolutionary War. These pieces were
                        welcomed with joy and even kisses by the British officers. The recaptured
                        cannon were fired at the British celebration, and their fire was answered by
                        the English war vessel "Queen Charlotte," which was much
                        admired by the Western soldiers, being the first they had seen. Some few
                        months after this celebration General Brock was killed at the battle of
                        Queenstown, and the American forts fired their guns during his funeral in
                        token of the respect which they felt for him. But the beloved brass cannon
                        came back to the Americans in the battle of the Thames, and the
                        "Queen Charlotte" also fell into the hands of the
                        Americans.
                    General Brock had been so pleased with Tecumseh's  map-making, and with his boldness in causing
                        the Indians to cross the Detroit River first, that he took off his sash in
                        public and fastened it around the body of the great chief. Tecumseh evinced
                        much pleasure. But the English commander was surprised to see him without
                        the sash the next day. General Brock, afraid that the chief was offended for
                        some reason, sent his interpreter to ask why he did not wear the sash. The
                        shrewd and politic Tecumseh, knowing well the Indian love for display and
                        the tendency in human nature to jealousy, had transferred the mark of honor
                        to the Wyandot chief, Roundhead, who, as he told the interpreter, was an
                        older and abler warrior than himself.
                    Colonel Hatch, one of the officers in General Hull's army, describes
                        Tecumseh's appearance at the time of the surrender of Detroit. He
                        says that he was about five feet nine inches in height, had an oval face, a
                        straight and handsome nose, and a beautiful mouth, "like that of
                        Napoleon I. as represented in his portraits." He makes the curious
                        statement, which we have seen nowhere else, that Tecumseh's eyes
                        were hazel, being clear and pleasant when in conversation, but
                        "like balls of fire" when he was excited by anger or
                        enthusiasm. His teeth were very white, and his complexion light—more brown
                        than red. This complexion, Colonel Hatch asserts, was a characteristic  of the whole Shawnee tribe. He was in the
                        prime of life, straight and finely formed.
                    The same writer describes the modest costume in which Tecumseh always
                        appeared. It was made entirely of the Indian-tanned buckskin, and consisted
                        of a hunting shirt, perfect in fit, which descended to his knees; short
                        pantaloons, and neatly fitting leggins and moccasins. This costume was
                        finished with a cape and belt, with a mantle of the skin thrown over his
                        left shoulder, which mantle served as a blanket. The edges of his cape and
                        shirt were trimmed with a leather fringe, which also served as a finish
                        around his neck. In his belt were his side arms, a silver-mounted tomahawk,
                        and a knife in a leather sheath. "Such was his dress,"
                        says this officer, "when I last saw him on the 17th of August,
                        1812, on the streets of Detroit, mutually exchanging tokens of recognition
                        as former acquaintances in years of peace, and passing on, he to see that
                        his Indians had all crossed to Malden as commanded, and to counsel with his
                        white allies in regard to the next movement of the now really commenced war
                        of 1812."
                    Thus ended Hull's expedition into Upper Canada. For his conduct he
                        has been very severely censured, and he was, no doubt, inefficient and
                        cowardly. The only extenuations of his offence were his advanced  age and the failure of the government to
                        support him properly. Though Hull might, as is believed, easily have taken
                        Malden and secured other successes to the American arms, Upper Canada could
                        not have been taken and held unless the command of Lake Erie had been
                        obtained by means of a fleet. The old general was tried two years later by a
                        court-martial, on charges of cowardice and treason. He was found guilty of
                        the former offence and sentenced to be shot, but was pardoned by the
                        President, in consideration of his age and Revolutionary service.
                    By the failure of this badly planned and wretchedly conducted campaign, the
                        settlements were left exposed to the ravages of hordes of Indians ever ready
                        to join the victorious side.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    SIEGES AND BATTLES AT THE WESTERN FORTS.
                    FORT DEARBORN, or Chicago, then a
                        lonely post in the wide wilderness, was surrounded by bands of Pottawatomies
                        and Winnebagoes. Tecumseh had been endeavoring to induce these Indians to
                        join the English. They wavered, however, and were waiting to see which side
                        bade fair to be successful. General Hull, on hearing of the surrender of
                        Fort Mackinaw, ordered the garrison at Chicago to dismantle the fort and
                        abandon it. A number of Miami Indians were sent to protect the retreating
                        party. Meanwhile, though presents were made to the Indians of the goods of
                        the posts, one of the chiefs, Black Partridge, said, "leaden birds
                        had been singing in his ears." The evening before the fort was
                        evacuated a runner arrived from Tecumseh telling the Indians of his victory
                        over Major Van Horne's party, of the retreat of General Hull to
                        Detroit, and of the probability of the success of the English. This news of
                        success decided the Indians, as Tecumseh expected, to join the British
                        standard, and they commenced  operations by
                        attacking the party of seventy men, women, and children, which was making
                        its way out of Fort Dearborn. The Miamis who had undertaken its protection,
                        being Indians, now began to feel strong inclinations towards the winning
                        side. They refused to defend the whites and soon went over to the hostile
                        Indians. The little garrison, attacked after it had left the fort, and
                        knowing that there was no escape, fought bravely, and did not surrender
                        until there were but few left alive. An Indian threatened to tomahawk the
                        commander's wife, Mrs. Heald, who was already wounded. A
                        quick-witted frontier woman, she understood Indian nature. Calmly looking
                        the savage full in the face, she smiled and said, "Surely you will
                        not kill a squaw." The Indian whom tears and cries would not have
                        touched, dropped his tomahawk at a bit of ridicule. The fate of the
                        prisoners was not yet decided, however. In the evening a council was held,
                        and it was concluded to deliver them to the English commander at Detroit, as
                        they had agreed to do on the surrender of the survivors. Many warriors from
                        a distance had arrived, however, and they were determined on further
                        massacre. The chief Shaubena and a number of other Indians were on the porch
                        of the house which contained some of the prisoners, standing guard with
                        their rifles crossing the doorway. The 
                        hostile Indians outnumbered them, however, and rushed past them into the
                        house. The parlor and sitting-room were soon filled with these painted
                        savages with their tomahawks and scalping-knives, waiting the signal of the
                        chief. Meanwhile women and children sat in the little bedroom weeping. Black
                        Partridge said to them, "We have done everything in our power to
                        save you, but now all is lost; you and your friends at the camp will be
                        slain."
                    At this moment a loud war-whoop was heard. Black Partridge ran to the river,
                        where he called out to the approaching canoe,
                    "Who are you, friend or foe?
                    A tall Indian stood in the bow of the boat, his head surmounted with eagle
                        feathers and his rifle in his hand. As the boat touched shore, he sprang
                        out, saying, "I am Shauganash."
                    "Then hasten to the house," said Black Partridge, for our
                        friends are in danger, and you alone can save them."
                    Billy Caldwell, as Shauganash was commonly called, ran to the house, and by
                        dint of threatening and entreating prevented the massacre. After much
                        suffering the little body of survivors reached civilization in safety.
                    Great was the disappointment of the war party in the United States,
                        aggravated by the taunts of the  opposition at
                        the loss of all the outermost frontier posts in the North-West, and the
                        utter defection of almost all the Indian tribes to the English side. The
                        aged Miami chief, Little Turtle, who had been so steadfast a friend of the
                        whites, was dead, and there was nothing to check the tendency of the Miamis
                        to join the rest under the victorious lead of Tecumseh, who seemed now in a
                        fair way to retrieve the fortunes of his confederacy, and to annihilate the
                        settlements in the North-West, so that he could re-establish "the
                        old line of the Ohio River." Fort Wayne and Fort Harrison were the
                        chief obstacles. It was accordingly planned to have Fort Wayne captured by
                        the Pottawatomies and Ottawas, aided by Tecumseh and the English, while Fort
                        Harrison was to be captured by Miamis and Winnebagoes.
                    Tecumseh was at Malden making preparations to set out in September to assist
                        in this enterprise.
                    Meanwhile, recruits were enlisting with great enthusiasm in Ohio and
                        Kentucky. The Kentucky troops insisted that Governor Harrison should command
                        them. Contrary to law, Harrison not being a citizen of Kentucky, he was
                        appointed brevet major-general in the militia of that State.
                    Early in September Fort Wayne was closely invested by the neighboring
                        Indians. It was built of wood, and its garrison numbered about seventy men
                             Some Ohio troops who had been sent to the
                        relief of Detroit before its loss was known, had been ordered to Fort Wayne,
                        but having enlisted for the conquest of Upper Canada, they were disheartened
                        at Hull's surrender, and showed no spirit in endeavoring to get to
                        Fort Wayne. A young man by the name of Oliver, who lived at Fort Wayne, was
                        on his way to that place when he heard of the siege. He immediately joined
                        the Ohio militia, but seeing no chance of reaching the fort in time to do
                        any good at the pace at which they were advancing, he returned to
                        Cincinnati, where he informed General Harrison of the siege of Fort Wayne.
                        The general promised him that he would immediately march to its relief.
                        Oliver then returned and overtook the Ohio troops.
                    Thomas Worthington, an Indian commissioner, and Oliver, resolved to try to
                        communicate with the garrison of the besieged fort. They persuaded
                        sixty-eight of the soldiers and sixteen Shawnees to go with them. Among
                        these Indians was the Shawnee Logan, the story of whose early life we have
                        already given. Previous to the breaking out of the war, Tecumsch had sat by
                        the camp-fire with him all of one night trying to persuade him to join the
                        British in the coming struggle, while Logan on his part tried to induce
                        Tecumsch to side with the Americans.
                    On the second day of the journey, thirty-six of the  relief party returned to the army. Not being strong enough to
                        risk a fight with the Indians, the remainder stopped within twenty-four
                        miles of the fort, while Mr. Oliver, with the Indians, Logan, Captain
                        Johnny, and Bright Horn, endeavored to reach the garrison. Within five miles
                        of the fort, Logan discovered that there were holes dug along the roadside.
                        These were used by the Indians in night watching, each hole being large
                        enough to hold a man. Logan's party therefore left the road, and by
                        another route rode to within half a mile of Fort Wayne. They then
                        reconnoitered to see whether whites or Indians were in possession of the
                        fort, and having discovered that it had not yet been surrendered, they rode
                        rapidly toward it.
                    Meanwhile the hostile Indian chiefs had devised a plan for taking the fort by
                        stratagem. During a truce of some days they had perhaps discovered that the
                        officer in command, Captain Rhea, was often intoxicated and unfit for the
                        position. They gathered the warriors into a semicircle on two sides of the
                        fort, while five of the chiefs, with knives and pistols hidden beneath their
                        blankets, started out for the fort, bearing a flag of truce. These were to
                        hold a council with the officers for the pretended purpose of treating with
                        them. They would then assassinate all the officers, with the exception of
                        Rhea, whom they  believed they could induce to
                        open the gates to save his own life. In consequence of the drawing off of
                        the savages for this maneuver, Oliver and his companions found no resistance
                        on the side of the fort by which they approached. Finding one gate locked
                        they went on to the next. On passing around an angle of the fort they came
                        face to face with the five chiefs, among whom were Winnemac and Five Medals,
                        bearing their white flag. The two parties shook hands, but the chiefs were
                        decidedly startled by this sudden appearance, which meant, they did not
                        doubt, that a large force was near at hand. Winnemac turned and went back to
                        his camp. His companions, however, entered the fort, where they were told
                        that Oliver, Logan, and the two Indians had come to stay. They had indeed
                        arrived at an opportune moment—an hour later would have been too late; and
                        for many days previous it would have been impossible to reach the garrison
                        through the Indian ranks.
                    Mr. Oliver now wrote a hurried despatch to Worthington, and the brave Logan
                        and his men, with new rifles, prepared for fresh perils. They took the
                        letter and started from the gate of the fort. They were immediately seen by
                        the savages, who pursued the flying scouts. The race was eagerly watched by
                        the garrison. As they crossed the enemy's line in safety,  Logan gave a triumphant shout, which reached
                        the cars of the anxious soldiers in the fort.
                    The scouts delivered the letter to Worthington, but still the troops delayed
                        their march. Meanwhile the Indians, encouraged at seeing no force coming,
                        and hoping for the arrival of Tecumsch, kept up a constant fire. Several
                        times the wooden fort was in flames from burning arrows. The garrison was
                        watchful, however, and succeeded in extinguishing the fire. The garrison
                        saw, at one time, that the besiegers were preparing for some extraordinary
                        effort. The Indians managed at length to get possession of a trading-house
                        near the fort. From this they informed the garrison that they had been
                        reinforced with British cannon and artillerists, and demanded a surrender,
                        promising to protect the garrison, but threatening a massacre if they were
                        forced to storm the works. This demand was refused, and the garrison
                        prepared for the utmost resistance. The commander having been suspended for
                        incapacity, Lieutenant Curtis directed the defence. Every man able to do
                        duty was furnished with several stands of loaded arms, arms being more
                        abundant than men. They were ordered not to fire until the Indians were
                        close upon the fort, and then to use their guns in rapid succession. This
                        fierce fire forced the Indians to retreat within twenty minutes  with a loss of eighteen warriors. The boasted
                        cannon burst—one on the first, the other on the second fire. They had been
                        made of wood and hooped with iron by some ingenious English traders.
                    Governor Harrison overtook the sluggish troops marching for Fort Wayne, and
                        reached the beleaguered garrison on the 12th of September, two days before
                        Tecumseh started from Malden to the assistance of his warriors. The Indians
                        gathered together in a swamp five miles from the fort the day before
                        Harrison's arrival, to give him battle. They discovered by means of
                        scouts that his force was too large for them, however, and after building
                        great fires that the garrison at the fort might think a battle was raging,
                        from the clouds of smoke, they fled by the fort in great disorder, acting
                        the part of a "defeated force." By this means they
                        designed to draw out the garrison in pursuit. Failing in this, their final
                        ruse, they raised the siege at Fort Wayne.
                    Tecumsch's plan did not succeed better at Fort Harrison. This place
                        was commanded by Captain Zachary Taylor, afterwards the hero of Buena Vista,
                        in the Mexican War, and the twelfth President of the United States. His
                        garrison consisted of about fifty men, one-third of whom were sick. On the
                        3d of September a body of Kickapoo and Winnebago Indians, with their women
                        and children, came to Fort  Harrison. They
                        requested to be admitted, saying they wished to hold a council and were
                        under great necessity for want of provisions. Two young men had been killed
                        the evening before near the fort, and Captain Taylor was decidedly
                        suspicious of these Indians. He gave them food, but refused to open the
                        gates of the fort to them. They lingered around, protesting their
                        friendliness, until the next day, when they suddenly set fire to one of the
                        block-houses which composed the line of the fort. At the same time a large
                        band of Indians, who had previous to this been in ambush, opened a rapid
                        fire on the burning block-house, and through the gap which it left into the
                        fort. The garrison answered vigorously. The fort was now in great danger
                        from the breach which the burning house would leave in the fortifications.
                        Captain Taylor, however, pulled down a cabin, with which he made a
                        breastwork over the opening. The Indians charged desperately several times,
                        trying to fire the other buildings and to get over the breastwork, but they
                        were bravely repulsed at every point by the little garrison. So inevitable,
                        however, seemed death by fire or the tomahawk to those who remained inside,
                        that two men tried to escape at the breach to the hostile Indians. One was
                        killed, and the other, wounded by the Indians, retreated to the fort, where
                        he concealed himself  behind some barrels
                        until morning, when he could be readmitted.
                    The Indians hovered around the fort for seven or eight days, but could gain
                        nothing. Taylor immediately repaired the fortifications as best he could,
                        and put things in readiness for a siege. The breach produced by the burning
                        of the house subjected the garrison to more than one danger. It had
                        contained the provisions of the fort, and the men seemed now likely to
                        starve. They lived on some corn that had been cultivated in the neighborhood
                        of the fort for several days. Captain Taylor at last succeeded in sending a
                        messenger through the Indian lines in the night. The savages were much
                        exasperated by their failure to take Fort Harrison, and a large body of them
                        attacked the settlements at Pigeon Roost, a branch of White River. Here,
                        with an inventive brutality known only to Indians, they massacred twenty-one
                        men, women, and children.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    INCIDENTS OF THE WAR—HAND TO HAND ENCOUNTER, AND DEATH
                        OF LOGAN.
                    WHILE the army, from which so much had been expected, was
                        unfortunate, the little United States navy, to which no one looked for
                        success, had gained several victories on the sea. An American frigate, the
                        Constitution, commanded by Captain Hull, a nephew of the general, and a
                        brave man, took the British frigate Guerriere, while other important
                        victories were gained on the part of the United States vessels. The
                        Americans were quite as much surprised at this as were the English, who had
                        beaten every other nation into acknowledging England's supremacy on
                        the seas.
                    Meanwhile, General Van Rensselaer was defeated on the New York frontier at
                        Queenstown in October, and nothing was accomplished there during the whole
                        winter.
                    Ignorant of the wishes of the Kentucky volunteers and the plans and promises
                        already made for them, the government appointed another old Revolutionary
                        officer, General Winchester, to the command of the  army in the West. The soldiers were much dissatisfied, and it
                        was with difficulty that Governor Harrison succeeded in persuading them to
                        accept the strange general, when he overtook them at Fort Wayne. Harrison
                        immediately returned to Piqua, where he undertook to organize a body of
                        volunteers, to make an attack on Detroit. The government, however, on
                        hearing of the previous arrangements of the volunteers, gave Harrison the
                        chief command, while that of the left wing was given to Winchester. General
                        Harrison busied himself in pushing forward provisions preparatory to the
                        retaking of Detroit. An expedition under General Hopkins against some
                        Kickapoo villages entirely failed, on account of the incompetence of the
                        guides, a deficiency in the food supplies, and the insubordination of the
                        troops. Some Indian towns above Peoria were destroyed, however, by Governor
                        Edwards of the Illinois Territory, with whom Hopkins was to have
                        co-operated. General Hopkins conducted another expedition against the Indian
                        towns on the Wabash. They succeeded in destroying several of these from
                        which the Indians had fled, and among them the Prophet's Town, on
                        the ruins of which forty cabins had been built.
                    Meanwhile Harrison could accomplish but little on account of the mud, which
                        made it impossible to forward provisions and artillery for his
                        expedition.
                    
                    The Shawnee Logan was acting the part of scout, and did great service to his
                        American friends. la November, 1812, General Harrison told him to
                        reconnoiter in the neighborhood of the Rapids of the Maumee. Logan took with
                        him his old comrades in danger, Captain Johnny and Bright Horn. They were
                        pursued by a body of the enemy, and made their escape with difficulty to the
                        wing of the army under command of General Winchester. Logan reported to this
                        officer his discoveries. He was accused at this time by some persons in the
                        army of treachery. This suspicion of his fidelity to the American cause so
                        hurt the feelings of the faithful Indian that he resolved to wipe it away.
                        He visited the camp of his friend Oliver, and informed him of his intention.
                        He consequently started down the Maumee with his inseparable companions,
                        Captain Johnny and Bright Horn. They were surprised at noon by a party of
                        Indians, among whom was the treacherous chief Winnemac. Logan, with quick
                        presence of mind, boldly offered his hand to Winnemac, who knew him well,
                        saying that he was just going to the British to give information. Winnemac,
                        however, was too much of an Indian himself to be entirely deceived by this
                        stratagem. They took away the arms of Logan and his companions, and guarded
                        them carefully while they marched toward the British fort at  the Rapids. Logan, after a time, succeeded in
                        impressing the Indians with the idea that he was sincere in his declaration
                        that he had deserted the American cause. Winnemac restored to the captives
                        their arms, but the Indians still kept a close watch upon them. Logan now
                        resolved to brave his captors in a fight. This idea he managed to
                        communicate to Captain Johnny and Bright Horn as they marched along. In
                        order to reload their arms quickly they stealthily put bullets in their
                        mouths. Captain Johnny afterward said that, seeing the man at his side
                        noticed the motion, he calmly remarked. "Me chaw heap
                            tobac."
                    When night came on the Indians encamped, some of them going off in search of
                        black haws, a delicate little fruit much esteemed in Indiana. As soon as
                        they were out of sight Logan and his men opened the attack. They killed
                        three of the Indians immediately. Their fire was returned by the remainder
                        of the party, who were near at hand, and both parties Logan now received a
                        mortal wound Bright Horn was also wounded, and they mounted two of the
                        enemy's horses, and, after fatally wounding two other Indians, they
                        started for General Winchester's camp, twenty-five miles away,
                        leaving Captain Johnny to follow on foot. This party of three had killed
                        five out of six or seven of the enemy,  among
                        whom was the chief, Winnemac. Logan paid dearly for his honors, but it was
                        no doubt a great pleasure to him that he had vindicated himself. Those who
                        had made the charge against him deeply repented it, and be was the idol of
                        the camp during the two days that he lived in great suffering. Before his
                        death he was seen to smile in spite of his pain. He was asked what he was
                        smiling at. Indian-like, he answered that he could not help laughing when he
                        thought of the way in which Bright Horn took the scalp of the dead Winnemac,
                        while he kept his eye on the movements of the enemy at the same time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.
                    DESTRUCTION OF THE MISSISSINEWA VILLAGES—BATTLE AND
                        MASSACRE ON THE RIVER RAISIN.
                    IN December General Harrison sent out an expedition
                        against the Miami villages on the Mississinewa River. On the march of
                        General Hopkins' force into their country the Miamis had become
                        anxious for friendship with the United States. But their friendship cooled
                        with its retreat, and when it was well out of the way they resolved on
                        hostility. It was now highly important to defeat them in order to save Fort
                        Wayne from their attacks. The detachment marched eighty miles over frozen
                        ground, and arrived at the first Indian village. Many of the Indians had
                        already escaped. They were pursued, and eight warriors were killed, while
                        forty-two prisoners were taken and the town destroyed. The village of Silver
                        Heels and two others were also destroyed. When the soldiers encamped at
                        night Indians were discovered near at hand, and the men were awakened before
                        dawn, that being the Indian hour for attack. A fierce engagement soon
                        ensued, lasting until daylight, the Indians making strenuous efforts to
                        reach  and release the captives. But they were
                        at last driven off by a charge, leaving fifteen dead behind them besides the
                        bodies thrown into the river. The effect of this expedition was very
                        wholesome. The Delaware tribe and all the other Indians who were friendly to
                        the United States immediately accepted the invitation of the governor and
                        moved within the limits of the American frontier.
                    The troops under General Winchester were ordered in January to occupy the
                        Rapids of the Maumee, otherwise called the Miami of the Lakes. This had been
                        twice before attempted. Winchester reached the Rapids after a severe march
                        through the snow. Here he received messages from Frenchtown, on the River
                        Raisin, thirty miles ahead, entreating assistance. A party of three hundred
                        British and Indians had occupied the town and threatened to burn down the
                        houses and carry away the people. General Winchester held a council of war
                        in which it was unanimously agreed to send forward an ample detachment to
                        the River Raisin. This was a most unwise undertaking, for Frenchtown had but
                        eighteen miles of frozen lake between it and Malden, and Harrison, as soon
                        as he heard of it, pushed forward with all his might to stop it. He was,
                        however, too late, for a detachment of over six hundred men marched to
                        Frenchtown, surprised the British and Indians, and  after a sharp battle drove them from the town. When General
                        Winchester heard of this he marched to Frenchtown with two hundred and fifty
                        men.
                    At daylight, the morning after his arrival, he was attacked by Colonel
                        Proctor at the head of a force of two thousand men, the Indians being
                        commanded by Roundhead and Walk-in-the-water. The Americans were taken at a
                        disadvantage and great numbers were killed, those who endeavored to escape
                        being tomahawked by the Indians. Winchester himself was soon made prisoner.
                        The British were repulsed, however, by that part of the American troops
                        which had been encamped within the town. They resisted bravely, preferring
                        to die thus than to be massacred by the Indians. Winchester was urged by the
                        English to order them to surrender, since the artillery might easily destroy
                        the village, and they would then be at the mercy of the savages. Winchester
                        gave the order, but the troops did not surrender until they had secured a
                        promise of protection from the Indians. After the surrender, General Proctor
                        started for Malden, leaving the American wounded in the town with but one
                        officer as guard, promising, however, to send for them so soon as his own
                        wounded were transported. This he did not do, and they were most barbarously
                        murdered by the Indians. Most of them were burned alive in the two houses in
                             which they had been left, those who
                        attempted to escape being pushed back into the flames. The Indians started
                        for Malden with all those whom they judged able to walk, tomahawking them
                        when they gave out. The road was thus strewed with dead men. Nearly three
                        hundred perished in the battle and subsequently by the tomahawk and burning,
                        besides the six hundred who were taken prisoners. This loss was terribly
                        felt by the Americans, and it is little wonder that the bitterest feelings
                        were entertained toward Proctor for suffering such a massacre to take place.
                        Even the Indian general, Tecumsch, abhorred this savage treatment of the
                        helpless. Had he been present, the lives of the prisoners would undoubtedly
                        have been saved. But he was still in the Wabash collecting warriors.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                    THE SIEGE OF FORT MEIGS.
                    GENERAL HARRISON was now forced to give
                        up all idea of attacking Malden for the present. Besides General
                        Winchester's disaster, there had been great loss from sickness, and
                        the term of service of most of the troops would soon expire. The siege of
                        Malden was wisely deferred by the government until later, when the command
                        of Lake Eric should be obtained through a fleet which was now in
                        preparation. Fort Meigs was the depot of the artillery and military stores
                        for the next campaign. General Harrison's main object at present
                        was to hold this fort, situated at the Rapids of the Maumee, or Miami of the
                        Lakes, opposite to where the English Fort Miami, which proved such a
                        temptation to General Wayne, had stood. Tecumsch, with the assistance of the
                        Prophet, had been collecting Indians from the different tribes during the
                        winter. As spring came on, and the ice disappeared from Lake Eric, General
                        Harrison was in constant expectation of an attack from Malden. His force was
                        now very much reduced on account of the expiration of the terms of service
                        of  his soldiers. What men he had worked
                        bravely, however, at the fortifications, which were still in an unfinished
                        condition. In the latter part of April, 1813, the English, commanded by
                        Proctor, and the Indians, under Tecumsch, appeared before Fort Meigs. They
                        immediately began to erect three batteries on a high bank on the opposite
                        side of the river. Meanwhile the engineer within Fort Meigs had suggested a
                        plan which General Harrison immediately accepted, and the whole army was
                        turned out to work under the engineer's orders. The ground
                        immediately around the fort had been cleared of its heavy forest. From
                        behind a few trees which were still standing, and from the trunks which lay
                        on the ground, the Indians would now and then succeed in getting a shot at
                        some of the garrison. On one side of the fort the trees had not been cleared
                        away to so great a distance. Here the Indians were accustomed to climb into
                        the tree-tops and annoy the Americans with their shots. This fire, however,
                        served as a stimulus to the militia, and it was remarked on this occasion
                        that their movements were much quickened "by a brisk fire of
                        musketry about their ears."
                    The English had finished their batteries, and on the morning of the first of
                        May the Americans saw that they were loading and adjusting their guns upon
                        objects within the fort. In a few minutes an immense 
                        
                         wall of earth, as by magic, was presented to
                        the view of the English gunners, and not a man or a tent was to be seen
                        within Fort Meigs. This was the result of the engineer's scheme,
                        and the day and night toil of the soldiers. A grand traverse, or earth wall,
                        twelve feet high, had been built on the elevated ground in the center of the
                        fort. This had been carefully hidden from view by the tents, which were now
                        quickly moved behind it. For five days the fort was cannonaded and
                        bombarded, with but little effect and not much loss of life. The fire was
                        returned from the fort, but economically, for ammunition was scarce. When
                        the fire from the batteries slackened, the American soldiers would appear
                        above the embankment giving three cheers and swinging their caps in the air.
                        Much amusement was created within the fort by the yells and demonstrations
                        of delight on the part of the Indians when they thought serious damage was
                        done by the bursting of a shell in the American camp. This mode of fighting
                        was new to the Indians, and they admired it very much. Tecumsch always
                        called the bomb-shells "double balls," and felt a great
                        respect for them. The English tried the effect of a fire from the opposite
                        side of the fort, but here their guns were silenced by the American
                        batteries.
                    General Green Clay was now near at hand with a reinforcement of twelve
                        hundred Kentucky volunteers.  It was necessary
                        for him to descend the river in eighteen flats. This he intended to do on
                        the night of the 4th of May, reaching Fort Meigs by daylight. An officer and
                        some men were sent ahead to inform General Harrison of his intentions.
                        Harrison resolved to make a sally against the enemy on Clay's
                        arrival. He sent Captain Hamilton to meet the reinforcements with directions
                        to General Clay to detach about eight hundred men, which should be landed on
                        the left bank of the river, where they were to attack the English batteries,
                        spike the cannons and destroy the carriages, after which they were to
                        immediately cross to the fort. Meanwhile the remainder of the troops were to
                        land on the side of the river where the fort stood, and fight their way to
                        it through the Indians. Captain Hamilton did not meet the reinforcements
                        until after daylight. They had been detained by their pilot, who refused to
                        proceed until morning.
                    When General Clay approached Fort Meigs, Colonel Dudley was detached to
                        execute General Harrison's orders in regard to the English
                        batteries. The remainder of the boats were to fall into line behind General
                        Clay. In attempting this they were driven ashore. After some confusion and
                        annoyance from the Indians, General Clay landed with the fifty men who were
                        in his boat. They marched to the  fort without
                        loss, under a fire from Tecumseh's Indians and with a discharge of
                        grape-shot from the English batteries. The rear boats effected a landing in
                        spite of a fire from the Indians. The troops immediately formed and returned
                        the volley. They now received orders from Harrison to march in open order to
                        the gates of the fort. Here they were met by a detachment sent out by
                        Harrison. The force then turned and marched against Tecumseh's
                        Indians, who were greatly superior in number, but whom they drove at the
                        point of the bayonet for some distance. General Harrison, who was watching
                        with a glass the operations of the troops, saw that this detachment was in
                        danger from a body of English and Indians who were filing along the edge of
                        the woods preparatory to attacking them in the rear. He immediately
                        despatched his aid to recall the detachment. The aid's horse was
                        shot from under him, however, and another officer repeated the order. The
                        pursuing Americans were extremely reluctant to return, and it was with
                        difficulty that they were induced to do so. In their retreat they were
                        pursued by the Indians, who succeeded in killing more men than they had done
                        before during the whole action. General Harrison could now see the
                        detachment under Colonel Dudley carrying out their orders at the English
                        batteries. The general ordered a sortie under Colonel  Miller against the batteries on the side of the river where
                        the fort stood. This detachment attacked the batteries, spiked the cannon,
                        took about forty prisoners, and routed the enemy, although the English were
                        greatly superior in numbers. The enemy rallied and pressed Colonel Miller
                        hard as he returned to the fort. Colonel Miller's loss was
                        considerable while the English and Indians suffered severely. Meanwhile
                        Colonel Dudley had landed on the opposite side of the river, marched two
                        miles to the batteries, and raising the Indian yell had captured them. As
                        the Americans cut down the English flag they were greeted by shouts from the
                        garrison of Fort Meigs. General Harrison now signaled them to retreat to
                        their boats according to his order. They remained at the batteries, however,
                        interested in looking at the place, but spiking only a part of the cannon
                        and without destroying the carriages. General Harrison now offered a reward
                        to any one who would cross the river and order a retreat. Lieutenant
                        Campbell undertook to do this, but was too late. A body of Indians in ambush
                        had fired upon Colonel Dudley's scouts. He had ordered
                        reinforcements to their assistance. Numbers of the eager soldiers
                        immediately rushed into the woods in pursuit of the Indians, leaving the
                        remainder of the force under Colonel Dudley to hold the batteries.
                    
                    Meanwhile the English gunners who had fled on the attack of the Americans,
                        reported to General Proctor. He supposed the attack to have been from the
                        main force of the American army, and immediately sent for the most of his
                        troops from the opposite shore. Tecumsch was so eager that he swam across
                        the river, and, following the English force which had already attacked
                        Dudley, fell fiercely upon the rear of the routed Americans. The detachment
                        which had pursued the Indians returned only in time to join in the confusion
                        of a hopeless rout. The greater part of the men were killed or captured by
                        the Indians. Colonel Dudley himself fell by the tomahawk, and less than two
                        hundred men out of eight hundred reached Fort Meigs in safety.
                    The American prisoners were taken to the old Fort Miami, inside of which they
                        were confined. General Proctor allowed the Indians to select their victims
                        from among the prisoners, whom they shot, tomahawked, or murdered in any way
                        which suited their savage taste. Proctor is said to have witnessed this
                        operation, which lasted some two hours, during which time about twenty men
                        were murdered. Tecumseh now came down from the batteries, where he had been,
                        not knowing what was going on. A British officer who was present described
                        Tecumseh's conduct on this occasion to an American gentleman.  He said that suddenly a thundering voice was
                        heard, speaking in the Indian tongue. He looked around and saw Tecumsch
                        riding as fast as his horse could carry him, to a spot where two Indians had
                        an American, killing him. Tecumsch sprang from his horse, and catching one
                        Indian by the throat and the other by the breast, threw them to the ground.
                        The chief then drew his tomahawk and scalping-knife, and, running between
                        the prisoners and the Indians, brandished the weapons madly, and dared any
                        of the hundreds of Indians around him to touch another prisoner. His people
                        seemed much confounded. Tecumsch exclaimed, passionately,
                    "Oh, what will become of my Indians!"
                    He then inquired where General Proctor was, when, suddenly seeing him at a
                        short distance, he demanded of the commander why he had allowed this
                        massacre.
                    "Sir," said General Proctor, "your Indians cannot
                        be commanded."
                    "Begone!" answered the chief, sneeringly; "you are
                        unfit to command; go and put on petticoats!"
                    Not long after this the great Indian general's attention was
                        attracted by some one to a group of Indians with something in their midst,
                        at which they were looking intently.
                    "Yonder are four of your nation who have been  taken prisoners," said Colonel Elliott; "you
                        may do with them as you think proper."
                    Tecumsch walked up to the little company and found in their midst four
                        Shawnee Indians—Big Jim and Soldier, and two brothers named Perry.
                    "Friends," said Tecumsch, "Colonel Elliott has
                        placed you under my charge, and I will send you back to your nation with a
                        talk to our people."
                    This he did, discharging them on parole not to fight again during the war
                        with the English. He sent some friendly messages to the chiefs of the
                        Shawnee nation, and dispatched two of his followers to accompany the
                        released Indians.
                    When the firing had ceased, an English officer with a flag of truce was seen
                        crossing the river. He was met on landing by an aid-de-camp of General
                        Harrison. He said that his object was to demand the surrender of the fort.
                        The aid said that he might as well have spared himself the trouble, but that
                        he would report to his commander. General Harrison, being anxious with
                        regard to the fate of the prisoners, had the English officer, Major
                        Chambers, blindfolded and admitted to the fort.
                    "General Proctor has directed me to demand the surrender of this
                        post," said Major Chambers. "He wishes to spare the
                        effusion of blood."
                    "The demand, under present circumstances,'"
                        answered  the general, "is a most
                        extraordinary one. As General Proctor did not send me a summons to surrender
                        on his first arrival, I had supposed that he believed me determined to do my
                        duty. His present message indicates an opinion of me that I am at a loss to
                        account for."
                    "General Proctor could never think of saying anything to wound your
                        feelings, sir," Major Chambers politely remarked. "The
                        character of General Harrison, as an officer, is well known. General
                        Proctor's force is very respectable, and there is with him a larger
                        body of Indians than has ever before been embodied."
                    "I believe I have a very correct idea of General Proctor's
                        force," said General Harrison; "it is not such as to
                        create the least apprehension for the result of the contest, whatever shape
                        he may be pleased hereafter to give it. Assure the general, however, that he
                        will never have this post surrendered to him upon any terms. Should it fall
                        into his hands, it will be in a manner calculated to do him more honor, and
                        to give him larger claims upon the gratitude of his government, than any
                        capitulation could possibly do."
                    Arrangements were then made for the exchange of prisoners.
                    An incident happened during this siege which 
                        shows the contempt in which General Hull was held. An American soldier being
                        near the river bank, an English soldier called out to him "that
                        they would better hang out the white flag and surrender."
                    "General Hull has not arrived yet," answered the American;
                        "until he comes you may save yourself the trouble of asking for a
                        surrender."
                    General Harrison's force did not now amount to more than twelve
                        hundred, owing to the loss in the engagement on the 5th of May. General
                        Proctor had under his command about six hundred regulars, eight hundred
                        Canadian militia, and about eighteen hundred Indians. The Indians, however,
                        were incapable of strict subordination, and they now began to desert the
                        English cause in large numbers. They had looked for some signal success at
                        Fort Meigs, and they now saw little chance of it. It is said that General
                        Proctor had offered large rewards in case the fort was taken. The Prophet,
                        who seemed still to be a tool in his brother's hands, though he
                        never fought in the war, was promised Michigan Territory for himself and his
                        followers. Tecumseh was promised General Harrison, if this officer was
                        captured. Whether this statement be true on not is not known. No doubt the
                        proud Tecumseh would have been delighted to see in his power the man who had
                        foiled his dearest plans, and had ever been his chief obstacle  and antagonist. We cannot help believing,
                        however, that Tecumseh's enemy would have been treated with mercy
                        if helpless in his hands.
                    News now reached the English forces of the capture of Fort George, in Upper
                        Canada, by the Americans, under General Dearborn, and Proctor began to think
                        it unwise to remain longer at Fort Meigs while Upper Canada was unprotected.
                        Early on the morning of the 9th of May the Americans saw the enemy moving
                        away.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX.
                    THE SECOND ATTACK ON FORT MEIGS.
                    IT was with great reluctance that the United States
                        government consented to the employment of Indians in the War of 1812, it
                        having been a constant source of complaint against the English government
                        that they had used the savages. Governor Howard of the Missouri Territory
                        had dismissed a company of rangers which the Osage Indians had been
                        permitted to raise among themselves in his absence. This powerful nation was
                        so displeased that there was much fear of its turning against the American
                        settlements.
                    An English trader named Robert Dickson had been sent in the spring of 1813
                        among the Indian tribes on the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers. He gathered
                        together at Chicago nearly a thousand Indians, among whom was a great
                        Pottawatomie chief, named Mai-Pock, who wore a belt of scalps around his
                        waist. In the months of July and August nearly all the Indian warriors of
                        the North and North-West were collected around Malden. Their camps extended
                        from Brownstown to Detroit. They had  their
                        families with them, and as they neither hunted nor planted corn, their
                        support must have been a great burden upon the English government. The main
                        force of the British in Upper Canada consisted of these Indians.
                    In the month of June, 1813, General Harrison, who was now in the interior,
                        was informed that Fort Meigs was again likely to be invested. Before he
                        returned to his outposts he held a council with the chiefs of the Delaware,
                        Shawnee, Wyandot, and Seneca tribes. These nations still remained friendly
                        to the United States. Harrison made them a speech, in which he told them
                        that it was time for all the neutral Indians to take the one side or the
                        other. He told them of a proposal that General Proctor had made to exchange
                        his American prisoners for the Indians friendly to the United States.
                        Harrison told them that this looked as though General Proctor had received
                        some hint that they were willing to take up the tomahawk against the United
                        States. The President wanted no false friends, and if they wished to prove
                        their friendship they must either move into the interior or join him in the
                        war. This last the chiefs unanimously agreed to do. They said they had been
                        waiting for an invitation to fight for the Americans. A speech was made by
                        Tahe, the oldest Indian in the West. He spoke in behalf of all  the tribes present, and professed the
                        greatest friendship for the United States. General Harrison said that he
                        would let the Indians know when they were wanted; "but,"
                        said he, "you must conform to our mode of warfare. You are not to
                        kill defenceless prisoners, old men, women or children." General
                        Harrison then told them that he had been told that General Proctor had
                        promised to deliver him into the hands of Tecumseh if they succeeded in
                        their attack on Fort Meigs. "Now, if I can succeed in taking
                        Proctor," said General Harrison, "you shall have him for
                        your prisoner, provided you will agree to treat him as a squaw, and only put
                        petticoats upon him, for he must be a coward who would kill a defenceless
                        prisoner."
                    Early in July, 1813, the Indians began to appear in the neighborhood of Fort
                        Meigs. They attacked small parties who went out of the fort, and some men
                        were lost in skirmishes with them.
                    On the evening of the 20th of July, the English and Indians, about five
                        thousand strong, were again seen approaching Fort Meigs, of which General
                        Clay was now the commander. Previous to the siege he had busied himself with
                        clearing off the trees to a greater distance, and burning the trunks which
                        had been left on the ground. The English forces now encamped below Fort
                        Miami, and the Indians soon  took possession
                        of the woods in the rear of Fort Meigs. Here they could effect nothing, as
                        the grape and canister shot from the fort kept them at a distance. In the
                        night an express was sent to General Harrison to inform him of the siege.
                        General Clay expected that the English would immediately erect batteries.
                        Most of the men were occupied through the night in throwing up new
                        traverses, and preparing all for resistance. Those who were permitted to
                        rest slept on their arms. On the 23d of July, eight hundred mounted Indians,
                        commanded by Tecumseh, went up the river. It was supposed at the fort that
                        Tecumseh intended to attack Fort Winchester. Everything still remained quiet
                        around Fort Meigs. On the evening of the 24th, Colonel Gaines of the
                        garrison, with two hundred men, made a circuit of the fort to see if the
                        English had begun to erect any batteries. A stronger detachment was sent
                        from the English camp to intercept him, but he succeeded in regaining the
                        fort before he was overtaken. The next morning the English moved to the side
                        of the river on which the fort stood, and encamped behind a point of woods.
                        This movement led General Clay to suppose that they intended to storm his
                        position.
                    The express from Fort Meigs found General Harrison at Lower Sandusky. He
                        thought that the movement of Tecumseh toward Fort Winchester was  a feint to attract attention in that
                        direction, while Fort Stephenson, at Lower Sandusky, would prove to be the
                        real point of attack. As this post had been pronounced untenable and was
                        unimportant, Harrison directed his main attention to Fort Meigs and Upper
                        Sandusky. He moved his headquarters to Seneca Town, leaving Fort Stephenson
                        in charge of Major Croghan. From this point he would be ready to relieve
                        either of the important posts. He sent the express from Fort Meigs back with
                        the message that he had not a sufficient force to march immediately to the
                        relief of that fort, but that he would inform the governor of Ohio, and
                        troops would soon be collected for that purpose if the enemy persevered.
                    Meanwhile Tecumseh had devised a stratagem by means of which he hoped to
                        decoy the Americans from the fort. On the afternoon of the 26th of July, a
                        heavy firing of rifles and musketry, followed by the Indian yell, was heard
                        upon the Sandusky road. A body of Indians could be seen attacking a column
                        of men who were at one time thrown into confusion, then rallied again, and
                        the Indians gave way. This contest seemed to be approaching the fort. It had
                        the intended effect upon the garrison, who seized their arms and demanded to
                        be led to the assistance of their friends. Fortunately the express had
                        arrived  that morning with Harrison's
                        message, and General Clay concluded that there could be no reinforcements in
                        the neighborhood. A few discharges from the cannons at the fort and a heavy
                        shower of rain terminated this sham battle, which had lasted an hour.
                    On the 28th of July the siege of Fort Meigs was raised, and the English
                        embarked in their vessels and sailed around into Sandusky Bay, while a
                        number of the Indians crossed by land.
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI.
                    THE ATTACK ON FORT STEPHENSON.
                    THIS movement had been anticipated by General Harrison. He
                        had examined Fort Stephenson and found a hill in the neighborhood which
                        commanded the fort, and to which he thought of removing it. Major Croghan
                        offered to carry out this plan, but General Harrison thought it would
                        probably be attacked before the removal could be accomplished. General
                        Harrison was convinced that the fort could not be defended against the
                        English artillery, and told Major Croghan that if the fort was approached by
                        water, it would be presumable that the enemy had brought heavy artillery,
                        and he must effect a retreat if possible after burning the fort. If,
                        however, he should be attacked by land, it would be suicidal to attempt to
                        escape through the Indian forces.
                    On the 29th of July General Harrison was in formed by an express from General
                        Clay of the movement of the enemy. In a council held with his officers, it
                        was decided that Fort Stephenson was untenable, since the English could
                        bring any number of battering cannon against it. General Harrison  immediately sent Major Croghan a peremptory
                        order to abandon and burn the fort and effect a retreat. The bearers of this
                        message having lost their way in the night, it did not reach Fort Stephenson
                        for twenty-four hours. When it arrived at the fort the Indians were already
                        hovering about, and in a council of officers it was decided to hold the fort
                        until further orders should be received. The commander of the post, who was
                        a nephew of the famous General George Rogers Clark, wrote the following note
                        to Harrison:—
                    "SIR: I have just received yours of yesterday,
                        ten o'clock P. M., ordering me to destroy this place and make good
                        my retreat, which was received too late to be carried into execution. We
                        have determined to maintain this place, and by heavens we can!"
                    The impudence of this note is accounted for by the fact that Major Croghan
                        expected it to fall into the hands of the enemy. It reached General
                        Harrison, however, and he did not understand this. He sent Colonel Wells to
                        relieve Major Croghan, and summoned that gentleman to appear before him and
                        answer for his disobedience. This was done satisfactorily, and the Major was
                        permitted to return to his post.
                    A reconnoitering party first discovered the approach of the enemy by water on
                        the 31st of July.  They returned to the fort
                        about noon the following day, and a few hours afterward it was invested.
                        Major Croghan was but twenty-one years of age; he had but one piece of
                        artillery, a six-pounder, and his garrison consisted of one hundred and
                        sixty men. The Indians first showed themselves over the hill. They were
                        greeted by the six-pounder. Half an hour afterward the English gunboats
                        appeared and the Indians were seen in every direction. The solitary
                        six-pounder was fired at the boats a few times, and was answered by the
                        English artillery. The enemy effected a landing with one piece a mile below
                        the fort. Major Chambers then approached the fort with a flag. Major Croghan
                        sent Ensign Shipp to meet him. Major Chambers said that he had instructions
                        from General Proctor to demand the surrender of the fort, that he was
                        anxious to prevent the effusion of blood, which could not be done if he were
                        forced to reduce the fort by the large force of regulars and Indians and the
                        artillery under his command. Shipp answered that it was their determination
                        to defend the fort, which they would do if they buried themselves in its
                        ruins, and no force could induce them to surrender. Major Chambers said that
                        if the fort were taken, of which event they had no doubt, their Indians
                        could not be restrained from massacring the inmates. The Indian agent,
                        Dickson,  who accompanied Major Chambers, then
                        remarked that it was a pity that such a fine young man should fall into
                        Indian hands.
                    "Sir, for God's sake, surrender and prevent the dreadful
                        massacre that will be caused by your resistance," he said.
                    Shipp answered that when the fort was taken there would be none to massacre.
                        An Indian at this moment came out of a ravine near by and attempted to wrest
                        the American's sword from him, but was prevented by the Englishmen,
                        who conducted Shipp safely to the fort. This last scene was believed by the
                        Americans to have been a bit of stage play to illustrate the point to the
                        ensign's mind.
                    The forces of the English consisted of about five hundred regulars and eight
                        hundred Indians under Dickson. Tecumseh with two thousand Indians was
                        stationed on the road to Fort Meigs to intercept any reinforcement.
                    The English now fired upon the fort from the cannon on their gunboats and the
                        piece on shore. This firing continued all night with little effect. Major
                        Croghan occasionally fired his little six-pounder, moving it from place to
                        place to make the enemy believe that he had more than one piece. He was
                        sparing in the use of it, however, as his ammunition was scarce. The English
                        directed their fire against  the north-western
                        angle of the fort. Major Croghan thought from this that they would endeavor
                        to make a breach and storm his works at that point. He had the solitary
                        cannon secretly moved to a block-house where it would command this angle,
                        masked the embrasure, and loaded the gun.
                    Early the next morning, the English opened from their howitzer and three
                        six-pounders, which they had planted in the woods during the night. In the
                        afternoon they again concentrated their fire on the north-western angle.
                        Major Croghan immediately strengthened the palisades at this point with bags
                        of sand and flour. Later the smoke of the firing had so enveloped the fort
                        that nothing could be seen from it. Feints were now made toward the southern
                        angle, but the troops at the north-western angle maintained their position.
                        Suddenly a body of three hundred and fifty men were discovered within twenty
                        paces at this point. A heavy fire of musketry from the fort threw them into
                        some confusion, but the commanding officer, Colonel Short, soon rallied his
                        men. He bravely led them to the ditch, and then jumped in, his troops
                        following him. When the ditch was full the masked embrasure was opened and
                        the cannon did such effective work that but few escaped. The officers
                        attempted to rally their men, but in vain; they were utterly routed.
                    
                    The loss of the little garrison was one killed and seven wounded. The English
                        loss was great. Night came on soon after the assault, and the wounded could
                        not be relieved completely by either side. All those who were able returned
                        to the English lines. Major Croghan conveyed water to the wounded English in
                        the ditch by means of buckets over the wall of the fort. He also had a ditch
                        opened under the palisades, through which those who were able crawled into
                        the fort. The Indians succeeded in carrying away many of their own dead and
                        wounded.
                    Before daylight on the morning of the 3d of August, the English and Indians
                        retreated. They left a boat containing some clothing and military stores,
                        and seventy stands of arms, while some braces of pistols were picked up
                        around the fort. They had retreated precipitately, expecting an attack from
                        General Harrison, who, however, had deferred marching to the relief of the
                        fort, seeing that the English had only brought light artillery with them.
                        News had been sent to Harrison that the English were preparing to retreat,
                        and he immediately set out for the fort with a body of dragoons. He arrived
                        there early in the morning after the enemy had disappeared. He did not
                        pursue them, however, for he feared an attack from Tecumseh upon Fort Meigs
                        or upon the reinforcements which were coming from  Ohio. In his official report, General Harrison called the
                        youthful Major Croghan "a hero worthy of his gallant
                        uncle."
                    On the day following the assault the Americans buried the English
                        dead—among whom was the brave Colonel Short—with suitable honors.
                    A small party of Wyandot Indians were sent down the bay as scouts after the
                        retreat of the enemy. They succeeded in surprising and capturing a few
                        English soldiers. They brought their prisoners back in safety, with an
                        evident sense of deserving extraordinary commendation for having abstained
                        from cruelty. They were often seen telling the story to other warriors, and
                        laughing over the terror of their prisoners, who, no doubt, expected to be
                        tomahawked or burned.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII.
                    ANECDOTES OF TECUMSEH.
                    AT every defeat of General Proctor the Indians became more
                        and more dissatisfied. When the first siege of Fort Meigs was abandoned,
                        they pressed the commander to make a new effort. The success of the American
                        arms in various skirmishes elsewhere was kept from them. A trader at length
                        divulged it, and for this he was arrested by General Proctor, but the
                        Indians demanded his release, and the commander felt obliged to comply with
                        their wishes. The savages at this time held secret councils, and would give
                        the general no information of their proceedings.
                    After his retreat from Fort Stephenson, Proctor and his forces proceeded to
                        Malden by water, while Tecumseh with his warriors marched around the head of
                        Lake Erie and met him there.
                    An American citizen, Captain Le Croix, had been arrested by General Proctor,
                        and was at this time secreted on board an English vessel until he could be
                        sent to Montreal. Tecumseh had an especial friendship for Le Croix, and it
                        may have been because of his influence with Tecumseh that he was seized.
                        Tecumseh,  suspecting that Le Croix had been
                        imprisoned, visited General Proctor, and asked if he knew anything of his
                        friend. He even ordered General Proctor to tell the truth. "If I
                        ever detect you in a falsehood," said Tecumseh, "I, with
                        my Indians, w immediately abandon you."
                    General Proctor acknowledged that he held Captain Le Croix as a prisoner.
                        Tecumseh then demanded that his friend should be instantly set at liberty,
                        and the general wrote a note ordering the release of the prisoner, saying
                        that the "King of the Woods" demanded it, and it must be
                        done.
                    Tecumseh treated the American commander with equal contempt. A recent writer,
                        we do not know on what authority, gives a challenge which Tecumseh sent to
                        Harrison at the first siege of Fort Meigs. It ran thus:—
                    "GENERAL HARRISON: I have with
                        me eight hundred braves. You have an equal number in your hiding place. Come
                        out with them and give me battle. You talked like a brave when we met at
                        Vincennes, and I respected you; but now you hide behind logs and in the
                        earth, like a ground-hog. Give me answer. TECUMSEH."
                    Tecumseh was very careful that his dignity as an Indian chief and an English
                        general should be respected. He knew enough of the English language  to hold a conversation on any ordinary topic.
                        He never was known, however, to use anything but the Shawnee tongue in
                        council or in conversing with the English officers or agents. Indeed he
                        would not speak English except with those towards whom he felt very
                        friendly. During the War of 1812 he always kept an interpreter with him.
                    At one time while the English and Indians were encamped at Malden, provisions
                        became scarce. The English soldiers were supplied with salt beef, while
                        horse-flesh was given to the Indians. Tecumseh was incensed at this
                        treatment of his people. He visited General Proctor and complained of the
                        arrangement by which, he considered, an insult was offered to him and his
                        men. The commanding general, however, seemed indifferent to
                        Tecumseh's remonstrance. The chief than struck the hilt of
                        Proctor's sword, and touched his own tomahawk, saying with
                        dignity,
                    "You are Proctor—I am Tecumseh," thus indicating a way of
                        settling the point if it were not attended to. General Proctor yielded.
                    The Americans always had great confidence in Tecumseh, though he was an
                        enemy. Once when the English and Indians were encamped near the River
                        Raisin, some Sauks and Winnebagoes entered the house of a Mrs. Ruland and
                        began to plunder it. She immediately sent her little daughter to ask
                        Tecumseh  to come to her assistance. The chief
                        was in council and was making a speech when the child entered the building
                        and pulled the skirt of Tecumseh's hunting-shirt, saying,
                    "Comme to our house, there are bad Indians there." Tecumseh
                        did not wait to finish his speech, but walked rapidly to the house. At the
                        entrance he met some Indians dragging a trunk away. He knocked down the
                        first one with a blow from his tomahawk. The others prepared to resist.
                    "Dogs!" cried the chief, "I am Tecumseh!"
                        The Indians immediately fled, and Tecumseh turned upon some English officers
                        who were standing near:
                    "You," said he, "are worse than dogs, to break
                        your faith with prisoners."
                    The officers immediately apologized to Mrs. Ruland, and offered to put a
                        guard around her house. She declined this offer, however, saying that she
                        was not afraid so long as that man, pointing to Tecumseh, was near.
                    After the retreat from Fort Stephenson, Tecumseh, discouraged by the
                        ill-success of the English, and having lost confidence in General Proctor,
                        assembled a council of the Shawnee, Wyandot, and Ottawa Indians who were
                        under him, and proposed that they should abandon a struggle which seemed to
                        promise them no good. He told them that when 
                        they had taken up the tomahawk and joined their father, the King, they were
                        promised plenty of white men to fight with them; "but the number is
                        not now greater," said Tecumseh, "than at the commencement
                        of the war; and we are treated by them like the dogs of snipe-hunters; we
                        are always sent ahead to start the game. It is better that we should return
                        to our own country, and let the Americans come on and fight the
                        British." Tecumseh's immediate followers all agreed with
                        him in this decision, but the Sioux and Chippewas, when they discovered his
                        intention, went to him and told him that he bad been the first to unite with
                        the English, and had induced them to join in the war, and now he ought not
                        to leave them. This decided Tecumseh to remain.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII.
                    PERRY'S VICTORY.
                    COMMODORE PERRY had for some time been
                        busy superintending the building of two new vessels at Eric. Late in the
                        summer of 1813 the American fleet was at last ready for action.
                    Perry sailed to Malden and displayed his vessels before the English fleet,
                        which was in that harbor. Tecumseh was on the Island of Bois Blanc at the
                        time. He was much delighted when the American vessels appeared, and told the
                        Indians that the English fleet would soon destroy them. The great army of
                        Indians who were on the island hastened to the beach to witness the battle.
                        Tecumseh was much disappointed when he saw no signs of fighting. The
                        imperious chief immediately launched his canoe and paddled over to Malden to
                        inquire into it. He visited General Proctor, and said,
                    "A few days since you were boasting that you commanded the
                        waters—why do you not go out and meet the Americans? See, yonder they are
                        waiting for you and daring you to meet them; you must and shall send out
                        your fleet and fight them."
                    
                    When Tecumseh returned to the island he told the Indians, with evident
                        mortification, that "the big canoes of their great father were not
                        yet ready, and that the destruction of the Americans must be delayed for a
                        few days."
                    On the 10th of September the engagement between the two fleets took place.
                        Tecumseh and the Indians witnessed this novel mode of warfare from the shore
                        with the deepest interest. Early in the morning the English vessels were
                        discovered standing out from Malden, preparatory to giving battle to the
                        American fleet at Put-in-Bay.
                    Commodore Perry sailed out to meet them. The wind was so light, however, that
                        the battle did not begin until nearly noon. The English vessels opened fire
                        first, and it was much the more destructive, owing to their superiority in
                        long guns. Commodore Perry's flagship was named the
                        "Lawrence," after the brave captain by that name whose
                        vessel had been taken by an English vessel at the mouth of Boston harbor.
                        For two hours and a half the "Lawrence" sustained nearly
                        all the fire from the English fleet. At the end of this time there was
                        nothing left of her but a battered hull, and most of her crew were killed or
                        wounded. The wind had increased by this time, and the
                        "Niagara" came up in gallant style. Commodore Perry now
                        left the "Lawrence"  in
                        charge of Lieutenant Yarnell. He attempted to cross in an open boat to the
                        "Niagara," standing crect and bearing
                        his flag, on which was the last words of Captain Lawrence,
                        "Don't give up the ship." His men, who did not
                        approve of the ardent young commodore's thus making a target of
                        himself, pulled him down, however. The remnant of his crew upon the
                        "Lawrence" gave three cheers when their commodore reached
                        the "Niagara" in safety. Perry now told the commander of
                        this ship, Captain Elliott, that he feared the day was lost, on account of
                        the lighter vessels having remained so far in the rear. Captain Elliott
                        immediately set out in an open boat, and, going from vessel to vessel,
                        brought them up into the position where they could do the most execution. He
                        was completely drenched with water, thrown up by the balls which struck on
                        all sides of him. Meanwhile Commodore Perry resolved upon sailing through
                        the enemy's lines, and succeeded in doing this, thus bringing all
                        the "Niagara's " guns to bear upon the English
                        fleet, while the smaller vessels, brought up by Captain Elliott, did good
                        service. Such a fire as this could not long be sustained by the English
                        ships, and the whole fleet at last surrendered. During the contest, soon
                        after Perry had left the "Lawrence," her flag went down.
                        The English had forced her to strike, but they were themselves  too much shattered to board her, and
                        Lieutenant Yarnell soon hoisted his flag again.
                    After the battle was over a war of courtesy took place between the English
                        and American officers. Commodore Barclay, the brave commander of the English
                        fleet, and his officers, refused to retain their swords; and Commodore Perry
                        refused to accept the sword of the veteran commander, for whom he could not
                        but feel the highest respect. The swords passed back and forth many times,
                        and the English officers were at last compelled to retain them.
                    On the day after the battle the English and Americans held one funeral
                        service over the English and American dead. They were buried on the shore of
                        Put-in-Bay, and the crews of both fleets were Present. The day was pleasant
                        and the lake was entirely calm. A solemn dirge was played, and the minute
                        guns fired as the slow procession of boats carried the bodies to their
                        graves.
                    General Harrison received at his headquarters, where he had heard the
                        cannonading, the following modest note from the young commodore, announcing
                        the result of his first battle:-- 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "DEAR GENERAL:
                                    
                                    We have met the enemy and they are ours—two ships, two
                                        brigs, one schooner, and a sloop.
                                    
                                        "Yours, with great respect and
                                            esteem. "OLIVER
                                            HAZARD PERRY."
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    The Indians did not understand the movements of a naval battle, and General
                        Proctor, who doubtless dreaded the influence of a defeat upon them, said to
                        Tecumseh,
                    "My fleet has whipped the Americans, but the vessels being much
                        injured have gone to Put-in-Bay to refit, and will be here in a few
                        days."
                    The suspicions of Tecumseh were soon aroused, however, when he thought he
                        perceived indications of a plan to retreat from Malden.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV.
                    BATTLE OF THE THAMES—DEATH OF TECUMSEH.
                    TECUMSEH was doubtless a very difficult ally to manage.
                        Imperious and willful, it was natural to him to rule, and not easy for him
                        to submit. General Proctor feared his outspoken disapproval, and dealt with
                        him by a cringing and maneuvering policy, which roused still more the
                        indignation of the sensitive chief. Proctor now told him that he was only
                        going to send all his valuables up the Thames, where they would be met by a
                        reinforcement and be safe. Tecumseh, however, felt sure that the commander
                        was meditating a retreat. He demanded, in the name of his Indians, that he
                        be heard by General Proctor. Audience was granted him on the 18th of
                        September, and the Indian orator delivered his last speech, a copy of which
                        was afterward found in General Proctor's baggage when it was
                        captured:—
                    "Father, listen to your children," said Tecumseh;
                        "you have them all before you. The war before this, our British
                        father gave the hatchet to his red children, when our old chiefs were alive.
                        They are  now dead. In that war our father was
                        thrown on his back by the Americans, and our father took them by the hand
                        without our knowledge; and we are afraid that our father will do so again at
                        this time. Summer before last, when I came forward with my red brethren and
                        was ready to take up the hatchet in favor of our British father, we were
                        told not to be in a hurry, that he had not yet determined to fight the
                        Americans. Listen! When war was declared our father stood up and gave us the
                        tomahawk and told us that he was then ready to strike the Americans; that he
                        wanted our assistance, and that he would certainly get our lands back which
                        the Americans had taken from us. Listen! You told us at that time to bring
                        forward our families to this place, and we did so; and you promised to take
                        care of them, and they should want for nothing while the men would go and
                        fight the enemy; that we need not trouble ourselves about the
                        enemy's garrisons; that we knew nothing about them and that our
                        father would attend to that part of the business. You also told your red
                        children that you would take good care of your garrison here, which made our
                        hearts glad. Listen! When we were last at the Rapids (Fort Meigs) it is true
                        we gave you little assistance. It is hard to fight people who live like
                        ground-hogs. Father, listen! Our fleet has gone out; we know  they have fought; we have heard the great
                        guns; but we know nothing of what has happened to our father with one arm
                        (Commodore Barclay had lost an arm in a previous battle). Our ships have
                        gone one way, and we are very much astonished to see our father tying up
                        everything and preparing to run away the other without letting his red
                        children know what his intentions are. You always told us to remain here and
                        take care of our lands; it made our hearts glad to hear that was your wish.
                        Our great father, the King, is the head, and you represent him. You always
                        told us you would never draw your foot off British ground; but now, father,
                        we see that you are drawing back, and we are sorry to see our father doing
                        so without seeing the enemy. We must compare our father's conduct
                        to a fat dog that carries its tail on its back, but when affrighted it drops
                        it between its legs and runs off. Father, listen! The Americans have not yet
                        defeated us by land; neither are we sure that they have done so by water; we
                        therefore wish to remain here and fight our enemy, should they make their
                        appearance. If they defeat us, we will then retreat with our father. At the
                        battle of the Rapids, last war (Wayne's battle), the Americans
                        certainly defeated us, and when we retuned to our father's fort at
                        that place (Fort Miami), the gates were shut against us. We were afraid that
                             it would now be the case, but instead of
                        that we now see our British father preparing to march out of his garrison.
                        Father, you have got the arms and ammunition which our great father sent to
                        his red children. If you have an idea of going away, give them to us and you
                        may go and welcome. For us, our lives are in the hands of the Great Spirit.
                        We are determined to defend our lands, and if it be His will, we wish to
                        leave our bones upon them."
                    General Proctor refused to follow the advice of Tecumseh. It is even reported
                        that this haughty chief called the commander "a miserable old
                        squaw." Tecumseh had hoped to obtain assistance from the English in
                        righting the wrongs of the Indians, but his contempt for white people
                        extended beyond the American nation: it included the race. Tecumseh, though
                        haughty and unbending, would doubtless have conducted himself differently
                        toward a commander like General Brock, one who was capable of inspiring
                        respect for his courage and wisdom in the mind of such an Indian. As it was,
                        Tecumseh cowed Proctor. Some English officers afterward told Colonel
                        Chambers of the American army that Proctor preserved a copy of
                        Tecumseh's speech to show his officers the insolence to which he
                        was forced to submit in order to prevent that chieftain's
                        withdrawing from the struggle.
                    
                    Finding that General Proctor insisted upon a retreat of the British and
                        Indian forces, Tecumseh once more threatened to leave the English service.
                        The Sioux and Chippewas again objected, and Tecumseh said that he was at
                        home on the battlefield, that he had no fear of death, and that he would
                        stand by them if they insisted.
                    The English army began its march up the Detroit River, and on the 26th of
                        September Malden was destroyed.
                    The next day Harrison and his army crossed to Malden in the American fleet,
                        expecting a battle with the enemy on landing. Great was their astonishment
                        at finding only the ruins of the fort. General Harrison, with some regulars,
                        over two hundred Indians, and a body of militia, consisting mostly of
                        Kentucky volunteers, was desirous of immediately pursuing General Proctor.
                        There was little hope of overtaking him, however, for he had nearly one
                        thousand horses, while Harrison had none. Only one indifferent animal could
                        be procured. On this, Shelby, the aged governor of Kentucky, who had joined
                        the army under Harrison, was mounted. The deficiency was soon supplied,
                        however, by the arrival of Colonel Richard M. Johnson's mounted
                        regiment. A scouting party sent out from this regiment had captured an
                        Indian, whom they found asleep in a house on the  River Raisin. His name was Missclemetaw; he
                        was a chief counselor of Tecumseh and an uncle of Logan, but more truly
                        Indian than either of these celebrated men, for he had been engaged in the
                        massacre at Pigeon Roost. He told Colonel Johnson that the Indians who were
                        allied with the English amounted to about seventeen hundred, that they
                        intended to give him battle at the River Huron, and that they still did not
                        know the fate of the English fleet. This Indian was a man of some
                        intelligence. He was under the impression that the Americans would put him
                        to death, and he gave what was believed to be a frank account of the
                        transactions among the Indians since Wayne's treaty. He said that
                        the English agents had given them encouragement previous to the battle of
                        Tippecanoe; that now he thought that the Indians had been deceived. He said
                        that he himself was forsaken in his old age by the Great Spirit in
                        consequence of his cruelty and wickedness.
                    General Proctor promised Tecumseh from time to time that he would halt and
                        give battle, first at one place, then at some other place further on. When
                        the chief started upon the retreat, he made this remark to young Jim Blue
                        Jacket: "We are now going to follow the British, and I feel well
                        assured that we shall never return."
                    
                    He seemed to feel homesick at leaving the country for which he had struggled
                        so long.
                    On the retreat the Wyandot chief, Walk-in-the-water, deserted the English
                        cause with sixty warriors. He visited General Harrison and wished to make
                        peace. He was told only to abandon Tecumseh, and keep out of the way of the
                        American army—terms which were gladly accepted.
                    General Proctor continued his retreat toward the Thames. Tecumseh was
                        undoubtedly most impatient for fighting. At Dalson's Farm, a place
                        where an unfordable stream falls into the Thames, it was at one time decided
                        to give battle. Tecumseh and Proctor, riding together in a gig, examined the
                        place for a battle-ground. The two generals approved of it, and Proctor said
                        that here they would either defeat General Harrison or leave their bones.
                        This idea pleased Tecumseh, and he said "it was a good place, and
                        when he should look at the two streams they would remind him of the Wabash
                        and the Tippecanoe." General Proctor afterward changed his mind,
                        however, and left Tecumseh with a small party to defend the pass. The chief
                        arranged his forces judiciously, and a skirmish ensued, during which
                        Tecumseh was wounded in the arm. The Americans brought up ten cannons, and
                        the Indians dispersed.
                    
                    Battle was at last given on the 5th of October, near the Moravian town, a
                        village of the Delaware Indians who had been converted by the Moravians.
                        Tecumseh refused to retreat further, and indeed the place was well situated
                        for defence, protected as it was on one side by the river and on the other
                        by a marsh.
                    Shaubena, Tecumseh's aid, says that on the morning of the battle
                        day, while Tecumseh, Billy Caldwell and himself were
                            seated on a log near the camp-fire, smoking their
                        pipes, a messenger came to Tecumseh saying that General Proctor wished to
                        see him immediately. The chief rose and hastened to Proctor's
                        headquarters. Ic soon returned with a melancholy
                        expression on his face. He was silent until Billy Caldwell said to him,
                    "Father, what are we to do? Shall we fight the
                        Americans?"
                    "Yes, my son," answered Tecumseh, sadly; "before
                        sunset we will be in their smoke, as they are now marching upon us. But the
                        general wants you. Go, my son; I will never see you again."
                    The English and Indians arranged themselves in order of battle preparatory to
                        meeting the Americans when they should appear.
                    The English forces were posted between the swamp and the river with their
                        artillery. Tecumseh  and his warriors were
                        stationed in the swamp on some high ground. After his Indians were in
                        position Tecumseh said to the chiefs who stood around him:—
                    "Brother warriors, we are now about to enter into an engagement from
                        which I shall never come out—my body will remain on the field of
                        battle."
                    Unbuckling his sword and handing it to one of the chiefs, he said.
                    "When my son becomes a noted warrior and able to wield a sword, give
                        this to him."
                    General Harrison's army had risen carly to resume
                        the pursuit of the flying enemy. His army crossed the river where it was
                        fordable, in singular style, each horseman taking one of the infantry on
                        behind him, and the remainder crossing in canoes. When the mounted regiment
                        came within sight of the enemy it halted. General Harrison, on coming up and
                        conferring with Colonel Johnson, suddenly changed his plan of battle. He
                        determined to try breaking through the English lines at once with a charge
                        of the mounted infantry. When Colonel Johnson began forming his regiment
                        according to the general's orders, he found that there was not room
                        for more than the first battalion of his regiment to act between the river
                        and the swamp. He therefore, resolved to put himself at the head of his
                        second  battalion, and with it to attack the
                        Indians on the other side of the marsh. The whole army advanced until the
                        first battalion of mounted infantry, under Colonel Johnson's
                        brother, was fired upon from a distance. This startled the horses and
                        produced some confusion. The English thus had time to load and deliver a
                        second fire. But the mounted infantry, now completely in motion, charged and
                        broke through the English line, which was instantly thrown into disorder.
                        The horsemen wheeled right and left and did such destructive work that in a
                        moment the battle at this point was over.
                    The struggle with the Indians was more obstinate. There had been eight or
                        nine hundred of the English troops, while there were more than a thousand
                        Indians under Tecumseh's command. According to the account of the
                        famous Black Hawk, who as a young man fought at Tecumseh's side,
                        the mounted regiment "came bravely on," but the Indians
                        made no move until the Americans were so close that they could see the
                        flints in their guns. Then Tecumseh sprang forward, gave the Shawnee
                        war-whoop and fired. This was the signal for the battle to begin. The shout
                        was answered from the American line, and the fire returned. Colonel
                        Johnson's advance guard was nearly all cut down by the first fire,
                        and he was himself severely wounded. As the ground was unfavorable  for fighting on horseback, the colonel
                        ordered his men to dismount and form on foot. In this way a fierce conflict
                        was waged for seven or eight minutes, when the Indians, hearing no more the
                        encouraging battle-cry of Tecumseh, fled into the marsh. "Tecumseh
                        fell dead, and we all ran," was the testimony of a Pottawatomie
                        chief. Johnson was himself too severely wounded to remain to the end of the
                        battle, but he said to those around him, "My brave men, the battle
                        continues; leave me and do not return until you bring me an account of the
                        victory."
                    Commodore Perry was present in this battle, acting as aid to Harrison. But
                        few of the men on foot could take part, however. The victory was gained by
                        the single dash of Colonel Johnson's regiment and the death of the
                        great Indian.
                    Tecumseh had been killed, and at his side fell his sister's husband,
                            Wasegoboah. A bitter and complicated discussion was
                        long waged as to who killed Tecumseh. Shaubena and some
                        others say that Colonel Johnson shot him with his pistol at the moment when
                        the chief attacked the colonel with his tomahawk. The discussion was so
                        aggravated by political rivalries and party bitterness at the time of
                        Colonel Johnson's election to the vice-presidency, that it is now
                        quite impossible to decide the question. The conflicting testimony then
                        produced has hopelessly  confused it. For in
                        that day, skill in Indian fighting was regarded as a prime qualification for
                        dignified political office, and men are often selected nowadays on no better
                        grounds. It may be doubted whether anybody ever did know who fired the shot
                        that killed the great chief. Those who saw him shot, from the American side,
                        did not know him from any other Indian, and the Indians who saw him fall did
                        not know his slayer. His death was not certainly known in the American army
                        for a long time. Many mistook the body of a gayly dressed and painted
                        warrior for that of Tecumseh. It is a shameful fact that from this body much
                        of the skin was stripped by some American frontier men, who had become as
                        barbarous as the savages against whom they had waged a life-long
                        warfare.
                    General Harrison did not announce the death of Tecumseh in his report of the
                        battle, since no one could be sure that the chief had been killed. Colonel
                        Johnson had killed an Indian who was essaying to tomahawk him. It is quite
                        likely that this Indian was none other than Tecumseh, who would naturally,
                        with his quick observation, find out the leader of this cavalry charge, and
                        seek to kill him.
                    Of one thing only are we certain. Tecumseh, dressed in his simple buckskin
                        suit, with no ornament but an English medal hung about his neck,  was killed by a pistol shot from a man on
                        horseback. The Indians recovered his body during the night, though it lay in
                        the light of the American camp-fires.
                    He was about forty-four years of age, and in body and mind the finest flower
                        of the aboriginal American race.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV.
                    AFTER TECUMSEH'S DEATH.
                    THE war continued with varying fortune for more than a
                        year after the defeat of Proctor; peace being finally concluded by the
                        treaty of Ghent, though the last battle, at New Orleans, was fought in
                        January, 1815, after the treaty had been signed, but before the close of the
                        war was known. If we are to judge by the treaty of Ghent, the War of 1812
                        was a drawn battle, none of the vexed questions which brought it about being
                        specifically settled in that document. Its practical results, however, were
                        very considerable and wholesome. Great Britain, after the war, though not
                        bound by treaty to do so, put a stop to the irritating and unjust practice
                        of searching vessels flying the American flag. And war-like Americans, from
                        that day to this, have not dreamed of easily conquering any part of the
                        British provinces.
                    The character of Tecumseh had excited the admiration of the English as well
                        as of the Americans. The Prince Regent, in 1814, sent a sword to
                        Tecumseh's  son, Pugeshashenwa, and
                        settled upon him an annual pension in consideration of his father's
                        services. We know nothing of the son but that he removed to the Indian
                        Territory with the remnant of the Shawnee nation. He did not figure as a man
                        of any influence in the later history of his people.
                    The Prophet also received a pension from the British government, though not
                        for valor. He was in the neighborhood of the battle of the Thames, but did
                        not participate, either out of regard to his sacred character, or out of
                        respect to the preciousness of his life. His portraits show him to be a man
                        of repulsive face, having but one eye, and well calculated to impress the
                        savage imagination as one who had mysterious dealings with the other
                        world.
                    Most of the Indians living near the settlements submitted to the Americans
                        after the battle of the Thames. The tribes have since been removed to the
                        West, and have become partly civilized, though still retaining a tribal
                        government. Many whites have intermarried with them; from this admixture of
                        white blood and from other causes, the Indian nations have generally
                        declined in numbers—more by a gradual absorption into the more numerous
                        white communities than from extinction. The moment a half or quarter blood
                        Indian removes from the reservation of his tribe, he becomes to all intents
                        and purposes a  white man, and in two or three
                        generations the last signs of Indian descent are obliterated.
                    The Prophet lived for twenty-two years after the death of Tecumseh, dying in
                        1834 among his people in their new home in the Indian Territory. He had sunk
                        into a great obscurity long before his death, though he continued to
                        exercise his prophetic gifts for many years after the overthrow of the
                        movement that he had led. For no amount of failure ever quite discredits an
                        impostor—there are always ignorant dupes eager to follow an impudent
                        pretender or a fanatic.
                    In the spring of 1823, Isaac Harvey, a member of the Society of Friends, who
                        was connected with the Friends' Mission at Wapakonetta, as
                        superintendent of mills, visited one day an Indian who was suffering from
                        pulmonary consumption. He found the door of the Indian's cabin shut
                        and fastened, but after a time it was opened and he saw the sick man lying
                        face downwards, his bared back cut in several places, so that he was in an
                        exhausted state from the loss of blood. There was present none other than
                        our old friend Tenskwatawa, the Shawnee Prophet, who was exercising his
                        functions as a prophet or clairvoyant doctor. He informed the Quaker that
                        the man was bewitched, and that these openings were made in his body to let
                        out the combustible matter that had  been
                        thrown into him. The good Quaker drove the Prophet out of the house and
                        dressed the sick man's wounds.
                    On the following night the friendly superintendent of the mills was awakened
                        by some one at his door wishing to get in. He heard a woman's voice
                        crying in broken English, "They kill-ce me! they kill-ce
                        me!" It was an Indian woman with her little girl. Mr. Harvey took
                        her to the house of the United States interpreter, where she explained that
                        a little messenger had brought her word that the chiefs were in council, and
                        that she had certainly been condemned to die on a charge of having bewitched
                        the poor consumptive on whom the Prophet had operated with knives. She
                        begged the "Qua-ke-lee" to protect her, and said she would
                        do all that he commanded. The shrewd Quaker, not relying on the friendliness
                        of the interpreter, answered the woman coldly, but having secured another
                        interpreter in the person of the blacksmith's son, he talked with
                        her again and finally hid her and her daughter between two beds on a
                        bedstead in the upper room of his house. He also killed with his own hands a
                        small dog that had followed her. The life of Harvey's family
                        depended, perhaps, quite as much as that of the Indian woman's, on
                        their success in keeping her hidden. Every part of the Quaker's
                        house was  searched, even this upper room,
                        where there stood nothing but this innocent-looking bed with all the covers
                        spread.
                    In the middle of that anxious day there came to the house of Isaac Harvey,
                        his friend, the chief Weasceah, otherwise called Captain
                        Wolf. He told the superintendent what had happened among them, as though he
                        did not at all suspect his friend of any part in the matter. The Quaker
                        earnestly remonstrated against the Indian belief in witches and witchcraft,
                        and expostulated with him on the cruelty of putting people to death on an
                        unproven charge of this kind. This disturbed the mind of
                            Weasecah; he was surprised to find that the
                            "Qua-ke-lec" did not agree with him
                        on so important a matter.
                    About an hour afterward he returned and expressed his belief that Harvey knew
                        more about the matter than he professed to. As the Quaker tried to evade,
                            Weasecah urged him to tell what he knew, promising
                        that so far from betraying him he would defend him to the utmost of his
                        power.
                    It was a desperate resort, but Isaac Harvey felt that the case was a
                        desperate one. Without frankly confessing all that he knew of the matter, he
                        admitted to the chief that he believed the condemned woman was out of the
                        reach of the Indians who were seeking her, and that they would never see her
                        face  again unless they altogether abandoned
                        the idea of executing her. This was a shrewd way of putting the case, but
                        the Quaker added what startled the chief yet more, that he had made up his
                        mind to close up the mission and take his family and go home.
                    After some thought, the chief proposed to Harvey that he should go with him
                        direct to the council-house, where the chiefs were then in session. He
                        thought if the "Qua-ke-lee" would promise the chiefs that
                        he would be answerable to them for the condemned woman, he could prevail on
                        them to pardon her. Isaac Harvey resolved to go, though it was like going
                        into a den of wild beasts, thus to brave the angry chiefs in council. He
                        asked the blacksmith, whose son had been his second interpreter the night
                        before, and who had himself offered assistance, to let the boy go with him
                        now. The smith did not believe in his success, but said that he had promised
                        to help Harvey, and he would also go with his son. Entered now into the
                        council-house these four—the chief, Isaac Harvey the Quaker, the
                        blacksmith and his son.
                    "Be still and hear!" said Weasecah. He
                        then told them of his interviews with his friend the"
                        Qua-ke-lee," and of the occasion of their coming. The Indians, some
                        of whom were painted and armed in a  way that
                        made them quite appalling to the Quaker, now moved round talking one to
                        another.
                    Isaac Harvey then addressed them through his interpreter, telling them with
                        great composure that he had come with Weasecah and
                        Simmeta (the blacksmith) to intercede for the woman; but seeing they had
                        resolved to follow their own course, he was prepared to offer himself in her
                        stead; that he had no arms and was at their mercy—they might do with him
                        as they thought best.
                    At this the noble chief Weasecah took hold of
                        Harvey's arm and said, "Me Qua-ke-lee friend." He
                        begged the chiefs not to suffer their friend the Quaker to be harmed. But if
                        they were still determined not to submit to the proposition, he offered his
                        life instead of his friend's.
                    This heroic attitude of the Quaker, with the loyal and brave act of the
                        chief, checked the tide of hostile feeling, and for a minute all were in
                        suspense. Then chief after chief to the number of six or eight stepped up to
                        the Quaker, each offering his hand and saying, "Me Qua-ke-lee
                        friend." The blacksmith also declared himself the Quaker's
                        friend, so that the good man was surrounded by quite a number.
                            Weasecah then argued with them eloquently, so that at
                        last the whole council offered their hands in friendship. The only exception
                        was Tenskwatawa,  the Prophet, who sullenly
                        left the council-house in defeat.
                    It was hard for the Quaker to prevail on the poor woman to come out of
                        hiding. "They kill-ce me," she cried. Even Weasecah could
                        not persuade her to leave her place of concealment. She remained several
                        days in the Quaker's house, when she returned to her own people,
                        and lived in peace.
                    By this interference of Isaac Harvey, persecution for witchcraft among the
                        Shawnees was destroyed. The gradually increasing enlightenment of the
                        nation, under the lead of missionaries of several denominations, has done
                        away with many of their old superstitions.
                    All dreams of perpetuating savage life in opposition to civilization are
                        futile. Civilization produces a dense population. It is not desirable that a
                        savage race which spreads itself thinly in squalid hunting bands should
                        possess a fertile country capable of supporting a hundred times as many
                        people in the comfort and enlightenment of civilization. Tecumseh's
                        impulse was a patriotic one; but it was a mistaken patriotism. The later
                        chiefs of the Shawnees, Delawares, Wyandots, and Miamis, who saw plainly
                        that it was only by learning the arts of civilized life that their people
                        could be saved from destruction, were wiser than he. But the tribute which
                        we always  pay to courage, eloquence,
                        administrative genius, and the most devoted patriotism, rightly belong to
                        the great Tecumseh, who, had his lot fallen to him in a more favorable time,
                        might have produced results more permanent than a confederacy of savages. It
                        in the nature of all confederations of savage tribes to fall asunder.,
                        Vainly Tecumseh labored, for the very laws of nature were against him. But
                        he serves to show how great even a savage may be.
                
                THE END.
            
        
        
            
            
                APPENDIX.
                AUTHORITIES FOR THE LIFE OF TECUMSEH.
                Life of Tecumseh and of his Brother the Prophet. With an Historical Sketch of the
                    Shawanoe Indians. By Benjamin Drake. Cincinnati, 1841.
                History of the Shawnee Indians, from the year 1681 to 1854 inclusive. By Henry
                    Harvey, a Member of the Religious Society of Friends. Cincinnati, 1855.
                History of the Late War in the Western Country, comprising a full Account of all
                    the Transactions in that quarter, from the Commencement of Hostilities at
                    Tippecanoe, to the Termination of the Contest at New Orleans on the Return of
                    Peace. By Robert B. McAfee. Lexington, Ky., 1816.
                A Historical Narrative of the Civil and Military Services of Major-General
                    William II. Harrison, and a Vindication of his Character and Conduct as a
                    Statesman, a Citizen, and a Soldier. With a detail of his Negotiations and Wars
                    with the Indians, until the final Overthrow of the celebrated Chief Tecumseh and
                    his Brother the Prophet. The whole written and compiled from original and
                    authentic documents furnished by many of the most respectable characters in the
                    United States. By Moses Dawson, Editor of the Cincinnati Advertiser. Cincinnati,
                    1834.
                
                Sketches of Western Adventure: Containing an Account of the Most Interesting
                    Incidents Connected with the Settlement of the West, from 1755 to 1794; with an
                    Appendix By John A. McClung. Also Additional Sketches compiled by the
                    Publishers: a Biography of John A. McClung. By Henry Waller. Covington, Ky.,
                    1872. [First Edition, 1832.]
                Biographical Sketches of General Nathaniel Massey, General Duncan McArthur,
                    Captain William Wells, and General Simon Kenton; who were Early Settlers in the
                    Western Country. By John McDonald of Poplar Ridge, Ross County, Ohio. Dayton,
                    O., 1852.
                A History of Indiana, from its Earliest Explorations by Europeans to the close of
                    the Territorial Government in 1816; comprehending a History of the Discovery,
                    Settlement, and Civil and Military Affairs of the Territory of the United States
                    North-West of the River Ohio, and a General View of the Progress of Public
                    Affairs in Indiana from 1816 to 1856. By John B. Dillon. Indianapolis, 1859.
                Biography and History of the Indians of North America: a History of their Wars,
                    with an Account of their Antiquities, Manners, Customs, Religion and Laws. By
                    Samuel G. Drake. Boston, 1848. [First Edition, 1832.]
                Life and Services of General Anthony Wayne. Founded on documentary and other
                    Evidence furnished by Colonel Isaac Wayne. By H. N. Moore. Philadelphia, Leary,
                    Getz & Co., 1859.
                A Memoir of the Public Services of William Henry Harrison, of Ohio. By James
                    Hall. Philadelphia, 1836.
                Sketches of the Civil and Military Services of William Henry Harrison. By Charles
                    S. Todd and Benjamin Drake. Cincinnati, 1840.
                Life and Adventures of Daniel Boone, the First Settler of Kentucky, interspersed
                    with Incidents in the Early Annals of the Country. By Timothy Flint. New
                    Edition, 1868.
                
                The Colonial History of Vincennes, under the French, British, and American
                    Governments, from its First Settlement down to the Territorial Administration of
                    General William Henry Harrison, being an Address Delivered by Judge Law, before
                    the Vincennes Historical and Antiquarian Society, February 22d, 1839. With
                    Additional Notes and Illustrations. Vincennes, 1858.
                Recollections of the Early Settlement of the Wabash Valley. By Sanford C. Cox.
                    Lafayette, 1860.
                Historical Sketches of the Late War between the United States and Great Britain,
                    blended with Anecdotes illustrative of the Individual Bravery of the American
                    Soldiers, Sailors, and Citizens. By John Lewis Thompson. Philadelphia, 1816.
                Romantic Passages in Southwestern History: including Orations, Sketches, and
                    Essays. By A. B. Meek. Third Edition. Mobile, 1857.
                Sketches of History, Life, and Manners in the West. By James Hall. Philadelphia,
                    1835.
                History of the Indian Tribes of North America, with Biographical Sketches and
                    Anecdotes of the Principal Chiefs. Philadelphia, 1842.
                A Full and Correct Account of the Chief Military Occurrences of the Late War
                    between Great Britain and the United States of America. London, 1818.
                The History of Kentucky: An Account of the Modern Discovery, Settlement, and
                    Progressive Improvement, Civil and Military Transactions, and the Present State
                    of the Country. By Humphrey Marshall. Frankfort, 1824.
                A Chapter of the History of the War of 1812 in the North-west, embracing the
                    Surrender of the North-western Army and Fort at Detroit,  August 16, 1812, with a Description and Biographical Sketch of the
                    celebrated Chief Tecumseh. By Colonel William Stanley Hatch, Acting Assistant
                    Quartermaster-General of that Army. Cincinnati, 1872.
                Early History of Western Pennsylvania and the West, and of Western Expeditions
                    and Campaigns from MDCCLIV. to MDCCCXXXIII. By a Gentleman of the Bar.
                    Pittsburg, 1846.
                Memories of Shaubena, with Incidents Relating to the Early Settlement of the
                    West. By N. Matson. Chicago, 1878.
                Personal Memoirs of a Residence of Thirty Years with the Indian Tribes of the
                    American Frontiers. By Henry R. Schoolcraft. Philadelphia, 1851.
                Autobiography of Rev. James B. Finley. Cincinnati, 1853.
                A Narrative of the Captivity and Adventures of John Tanner, during Thirty
                    Years' Residence among the Indians in the Interior of North America.
                    Edited by Edwin James. London, 1830.
            
        
    
