
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. The City of Masks: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2413
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
                THE CITY OF MASKS
                
            
            
            
                BY GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON
                GRAUSTARK
                
                CASTLE CRANEYCROW
                
                BREWSTER'S MILLIONS
                
                THE SHERRODS
                
                THE
                    DAY OF THE DOG
                
                BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK
                
                THE PURPLE PARASOL
                
                NEDRA
                
                COWARDICE COURT
                
                JANE CABLE
                
                THE FLYERS
                
                THE DAUGHTER OF ANDERSON
                        CROW
                
                THE HUSBANDS OF EDITH
                
                THE MAN FROM BRODNEY'S
                
                THE ALTERNATIVE
                
                TRUXTON KING
                
                THE BUTTERFLY MAN
                
                THE ROSE IN THE RING
                
                WHAT'S-His-NAME
                
                MARY MIDTHORNE
                
                HER WEIGHT IN GOLD
                
                THE HOLLOW OF HER HANDS
                
                A FOOL AND HIS MONEY
                
                BLACK IS WHITE
                
                THE PRINCE OF GRAUSTARK
                
                MR. BINGLE
                
                THE LIGHT THAT LIES
                
                FROM THE HOUSETOPS
                
                GREEN FANCY
                
                SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                
                THE CITY OF MASKS
                
            
            
            
            
                
                    THE HEAD AND SHOULDERS OF A MAN ROSE QUICKLY ABOVE THE LEDGE (PAGE 265)
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE CITY OF MASKS
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of
                    "Brewster's Millions," "The Hollow of
                    Her Hand," "Shot with Crimson," etc.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY MAY WILSON PRESTON
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                    1918
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1918 BY DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY, INC
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I LADY JANE THORNE COMES TO DINNER 1
                        
                    II OUT OF THE FOUR CORNERS OF THE EARTH 12
                        
                    III THE CITY OF MASKS 24
                        
                    IV THE SCION OF A NEW YORK HOUSE 37
                        
                    V MR. THOMAS TROTTER HEARS SOMETHING TO HIS ADVANTAGE 50
                        
                    VI THE UNFAILING MEMORY 67
                        
                    VII THE FOUNDATION OF THE PLOT 79
                        
                    VIII LADY JANE GOES ABOUT IT PROMPTLY 94
                        
                    IX MR. TROTTER FALLS INTO A NEW POSITION 110
                        
                    X PUTTING THEIR HEADS--AND HEARTS--TOGETHER 121
                        
                    XI WINNING BY A NOSE 134
                        
                    XII IN THE FOG 155
                        
                    XIII NOT CLOUDS ALONE HAVE LININGS 172
                        
                    XIV DIPLOMACY 188
                        
                    XV ONE NIGHT AT SPANGLER'S 202
                        
                    XVI SCOTLAND YARD TAKES A HAND 219
                        
                    XVII FRIDAY FOR LUCK 233
                        
                    XVIII FRIDAY FOR BAD LUCK 250
                        
                    XIX FROM DARKNESS TO LIGHT 263
                        
                    XX AN EXCHANGE OF COURTESIES 279
                        
                    XXI THE BRIDE-ELECT 294
                        
                    XXII THE BEGINNING 307
                        
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                THE CITY OF MASKS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    LADY JANE THORNE COMES TO DINNER
                    THE Marchioness carefully draped the dust-cloth over the head of an andiron
                        and, before putting the question to the parlour-maid, consulted, with the
                        intensity of a near-sighted person, the ornate French clock in the centre of
                        the mantelpiece. Then she brushed her fingers on the voluminous apron that
                        almost completely enveloped her slight person.
                    "Well, who is it, Julia?"
                    "It's Lord Temple, ma'am, and he wants to know if
                        you're too busy to come to the 'phone. If you are,
                        I'm to ask you something."
                    The Marchioness hesitated. "How do you know it is Lord Eric? Did he
                        mention his name?"
                    "He did, ma'am. He said 'this is Tom Trotter
                        speaking, Julia, and is your mistress disengaged?' And so I knew it
                        couldn't be any one else but his Lordship."
                    "And what are you to ask me?"
                    "He wants to know if he may bring a friend around tonight,
                        ma'am. A gentleman from Constantinople, ma'am."
                    "A Turk? He knows I do not like Turks," said the
                        Marchioness, more to herself than to Julia.
                    "He didn't say, ma'am. Just
                        Constantinople."
                    
                    The Marchioness removed her apron and handed it to Julia. You would have
                        thought she expected to confront Lord Temple in person, or at least that she
                        would be fully visible to him despite the distance and the intervening
                        buildings that lay between. Tucking a few stray locks of her snow-white hair
                        into place, she approached the telephone in the hall. She had never quite
                        gotten over the impression that one could be seen through as well as heard
                        over the telephone. She always smiled or frowned or gesticulated, as
                        occasion demanded; she was never languid, never bored, never listless. A
                        chat was a chat, at long range or short; it didn't matter.
                    "Are you there? Good evening, Mr. Trotter. So charmed to hear your
                        voice." She had seated herself at the little old Italian table.
                    Mr. Trotter devoted a full two minutes to explanations.
                    "Do bring him with you," cried she. "Your word is
                        sufficient. He must be delightful. Of course, I shuddered a little when you
                        mentioned Constantinople. I always do. One can't help thinking of
                        the Armenians. Eh? Oh, yes,and the harems."
                    Mr. Trotter: "By the way, are you expecting Lady Jane
                        tonight?"
                    The Marchioness: "She rarely fails us, Mr. Trotter."
                    Mr. Trotter: "Right-of Well, good bye,and thank you. I'm
                        sure you will like the baron. He is a trifle seedy, as I said before,sailing
                        vessel, you know, and all that sort of thing. By way of Cape Town,pretty
                        well up against it for the past year or two besides,  but a regular fellow, as they say over here."
                    The Marchioness: "Where did you say he is stopping?"
                    Mr. Trotter: "Can't for the life of me remember whether
                        it's the 'Sailors' Loft' or the
                        'Sailors' Bunk.' He told me too. On the
                        water-front somewhere. I knew him in Hong Kong. He says he has cut it all
                        out, however."
                    The Marchioness: "Cut it all out, Mr. Trotter?"
                    Mr. Trotter, laughing: "Drink, and all that sort of thing, you know.
                        Jolly good thing too. I give you my personal guarantee that he"
                    The Marchioness: "Say no more about it, Mr. Trotter. I am sure we
                        shall all be happy to receive any friend of yours. By the way, where are you
                        now where are you telephoning from?"
                    Mr. Trotter: "Drug store just around the corner."
                    The Marchioness: "A booth, I suppose?"
                    Mr. Trotter: "Oh, yes. Tight as a sardine box."
                    The Marchioness: "Good-bye."
                    Mr. Trotter: "Oh hello? I beg your pardon are you there? Ah, I er
                        neglected to mention that the baron may not appear at his best tonight. You
                        see, the poor chap is a shade large for my clothes. Naturally, being a
                        sailor-man, he hasn't er a very extensive wardrobe. I am fixing him
                        out in a er rather abandoned evening suit of my own. That is to say, I
                        abandoned it a couple of seasons ago. Rather nobby thing for a waiter, but
                        not er what you might call "
                    The Marchioness, chuckling: "Quite good enough  for a sailor, eh? Please assure him that no matter what he
                        wears, or how he looks, he will not be conspicuous."
                    After this somewhat ambiguous remark, the Marchioness hung up the receiver
                        and returned to the drawing-room; a prolonged search revealing the
                        dust-cloth on the "nub" of the andiron, just where she had
                        left it, she fell to work once more on the velvety surface of a rare old
                        Spanish cabinet that stood in the corner of the room.
                    "Don't you want your apron, ma'am?"
                        inquired Julia, sitting back on her heels and surveying with considerable
                        pride the leg of an enormous throne seat she had been rubbing with all the
                        strength of her stout arms.
                    Her mistress ignored the question. She dabbed into a tiny recess and wriggled
                        her finger vigorously.
                    "I can't imagine where all the dust comes from,
                        Julia," she said.
                    "Some of it comes from Italy, and some of it from Spain, and some
                        from France," said Julia promptly. "You could rub for a
                        hundred years, ma'am, and there'd still be dust that you
                        couldn't find, not to save your soul. And why not? I'd bet
                        my last penny there's dust on that cabinet this very minute that
                        settled before Napoleon was born, whenever that was."
                    "I daresay," said the Marchioness absently.
                    More often than otherwise she failed to hear all that Julia said to her, or
                        in her presence rather, for Julia, wise in association, had come to consider
                        these lapses of inattention as openings for prolonged and rarely coherent
                        soliloquies on topics of the moment. Julia,  by
                        virtue of long service and a most satisfying avoidance of matrimony, was a
                        privileged servant between the hours of eight in the morning and eight in
                        the evening. After eight, or more strictly speaking, the moment dinner was
                        announced, Julia became a perfect servant. She would no more have thought of
                        addressing the Marchioness as "ma'am" than she
                        would have called the King of England "mister." She had
                        crossed the Atlantic with her mistress eighteen years before; in mid-ocean
                        she celebrated her thirty-fifth birthday, and, as she had been in the family
                        for ten years prior to that event, even a child may solve the problem that
                        here presents a momentary and totally unnecessary break in the continuity of
                        this narrative. Julia was English. She spoke no other language. Beginning
                        with the soup, or the hors d'oeuvres on occasion,
                        French was spoken in the house of the Marchioness. Physically unable to
                        speak French and psychologically unwilling to betray her ignorance, Julia
                        became a model servant. She lapsed into perfect silence.
                    The Marchioness seldom if ever dined alone. She always dined in state. Her
                        guests,English, Italian, Russian, Belgian, French, Spanish, Hungarian,
                        Austrian, German,conversed solely in French. It was a very agreeable way of
                        symphonizing Babel.
                    The room in which she and the temporarily imperfect though treasured servant
                        were employed in the dusk of this stormy day in March was at the top of an
                        old fashioned building in the busiest section of the city, a building that
                        had, so far, escaped the fate of its immediate neighbours and remained, a
                        squat and insignificant pygmy, elbowing with some arrogance the lofty  structures that had shot up on either side of
                        it with incredible swiftness.
                    It was a large room, at least thirty by fifty feet in dimensions, with a
                        vaulted ceiling that encroached upon the space ordinarily devoted to what
                        architeets, builders and the Board of Health describe as an air chamber,
                        next below the roof. There was no elevator in the building. One had to climb
                        four flights of stairs to reach the apartment.
                    From its long, heavily curtained windows one looked down upon a crowded
                        cross-town thoroughfare, or up to the summit of a stupendous hotel on the
                        opposite side of the street. There was a small foyer at the rear of this
                        lofty room, with an entrance from the narrow hall outside. Suspended in the
                        wide doorway between the two rooms was a pair of blue velvet Italian
                        portieres of great antiquity and, to a connoisseur, unrivaled quality.
                        Beyond the foyer and extending to the area wall was the rather commodious
                        dining-room, with its long oaken English table, its high-back chairs, its
                        massive sideboard and the chandelier that is said to have hung in the
                        Doges' Palace when the Bridge of Sighs was a new and thriving
                        avenue of communication.
                    At least, so stated the dealer's tag tucked carelessly among the
                        crystal prisms, supplying the observer with the information that, in case
                        one was in need of a chandelier, its price was five hundred guineas. The
                        same curious-minded observer would have discovered, if he were not above
                        getting down on his hands and knees and peering under the table, a price
                        tag; and by exerting the strength necessary to pull the sideboard  away from the wall, a similar object would have
                        been exposed.
                    In other words, if one really wanted to purchase any article of furniture or
                        decoration in the singularly impressive apartment of the Marchioness, all
                        one had to do was to signify the desire, produce a check or its equivalent,
                        and give an address to the competent-looking young woman who would put in an
                        appearance with singular promptness in response to a couple of punches at an
                        electric button just outside the door, any time between nine and five
                        o'clock, Sundays included.
                    The drawing-room contained many priceless articles of furniture, wholly
                        antique(and so guaranteed), besides rugs, draperies, tapestries and stuffs
                        of the rarest quality. Bronzes, porcelains, pottery, things of jade and
                        alabaster, sconces, candlesticks and censers, with here and there on the
                        walls lovely little "primitives" of untold value. The most
                        exotic taste had ordered the distribution and arrangement of all these
                        objects. There was no suggestion of crowding, nothing haphazard or bizarre
                        in the exposition of treasure, nothing to indicate that a cheap intelligence
                        revelled in rich possessions.
                    You would have sat down upon the first chair that offered repose and you
                        would have said you had wandered inadvertently into a palace. Then,
                        emboldened by an interest that scorned politeness, you would have got up to
                        inspect the riches at close range,and you would have found price marks
                        everywhere to overcome the impression that Aladdin had been rubbing his lamp
                        all the way up the dingy, tortuous stairs.
                    You are not, however, in the shop of a dealer in 
                        antiques, price-marks to the contrary. You are in the home of a Marchioness,
                        and she is not a dealer in old furniture, you may be quite sure of that. She
                        does not owe a penny on a single article in the apartment nor does she, on
                        the other hand, own a penny's worth of anything that meets the
                        eye,unless, of course, one excepts the dust-cloth and the can of polish that
                        follows Julia about the room. Nor is it a loan exhibit, nor the setting for
                        a bazaar.
                    The apartment being on the top floor of a five-story building, it is
                        necessary to account for the remaining four. In the rear of the fourth floor
                        there was a small kitchen and pantry from which a dumb-waiter ascended and
                        descended with vehement enthusiasm. The remainder of the floor was divided
                        into four rather small chambers, each opening into the outer hall, with two
                        bath-rooms inserted. Each of these rooms contained a series of lockers, not
                        unlike those in a club house. Otherwise they were unfurnished except for a
                        few commonplace cane bottom chairs in various stages of decrepitude.
                    The third floor represented a complete apartment of five rooms, daintily
                        furnished. This was where the Marchioness really lived.
                    Commerce, after a fashion, occupied the two lower floors. It stopped short at
                        the bottom of the second flight of stairs where it encountered an obstacle
                        in the shape of a grill-work gate that bore the laconic word
                        "Private," and while commerce may have peeped
                        inquisitively through and beyond the barrier it was never permitted to
                        trespass farther than an occasional sly, surreptitious and unavailing twist
                        of the knob.
                    
                    The entire second floor was devoted to work-rooms in which many sewing
                        machines buzzed during the day and went to rest at six in the evening.
                        Tables, chairs, manikins, wall-hooks and hangers thrust forward a
                        bewildering assortment of fabrics in all stages of development, from an
                        original uncut piece to a practically completed garment. In other words,
                        here was the 'workshop of the most exclusive, most expensive modiste in all the great city.
                    The ground floor, or rather the floor above the English basement, contained
                        the salon and fitting rooms of an establishment known to
                        every woman in the city as
                    
                        DEBORAH'S.
                    
                    To return to the Marchines and Julia.
                    "Not that a little dust or even a great deal of dirt will make any
                        different to the Princess," the former was saying, "but,
                        just the same, I feel better, if I know we've
                        done our best."
                    "Thank the Lord, she don't come very often," was
                        Julia's frank remark. "It's the stairs, I
                        fancy."
                    "And the car-fare," added her mistress. "Is it six
                        o'clock, Julia?"
                    "Yes, ma'am, it is."
                    The Marchioness groaned a little as she straightened up and tossed the
                        dust-cloth on the table. "It catches me right across
                        here," she remarked, putting her hand to the small of her back and
                        wrinkling her eyes.
                    "You shouldn't be doing my work," scolded Julia.
                        "It's not for the likes of you to be"
                    "I shall lie down for half an hour," said the Marchioness
                        calmly. "Come at half-past six, Julia."
                    
                    "Just Lady Jane, ma'am? No one else?"
                    "No one else," said the other, and preceded Julia down the
                        two flights of stairs to the charming little apartment on the third floor.
                        "She is a dear girl, and I enjoy having her all to myself once in a
                        while."
                    "She is so, ma'am," agreed Julia, and added.
                        "The oftener the better."
                    At half-past seven Julia ran down the stairs to open the gate at the bottom.
                        She admitted a slender young woman, who said, "Thank you,"
                        and "Good evening, Julia," in the softest, loveliest voice
                        imaginable, and hurried up, past the apartment of the Marchioness, to the
                        fourth floor. Julia, in cap and apron, wore a pleased smile as she went in
                        to put the finishing touches on the coiffure of her mistress.
                    "Pity there isn't more like her," she said, at the
                        end of five minutes' reflection. Patting the silvery crown of the
                        Marchioness, she observed in a less detached manner: "As I always
                        says, the wonderful part is that it's all your own,
                        ma'am."
                    "I am beginning to dread the stairs as much as any one,"
                        said the Marchioness, as she passed out into the hall and looked up the
                        dimly lighted steps. "That is a bad sign, Julia."
                    A mass of coals crackled in the big fireplace on the top floor, and a tall
                        man in the resplendent livery of a footman was engaged in poking them up
                        when the Marchioness entered.
                    "Bitterly cold, isn't it, Moody?" inquired she,
                        approaching with stately tread, her lorgnon lifted.
                    "It is, my lady,extremely nawsty," replied Moody.
                        "The trams are a bit off, or I should 'ave  'ad the coals going 'alf an
                        hour sooner thanAhem! They call it a blizzard, my lady."
                    "I know, thank you, Moody."
                    "Thank you, my lady," and he moved stiffly off in the
                        direction of the foyer.
                    The Marchioness languidly selected a magazine from the litter of periodicals
                        on the table. It was La Figaro, and of recent date. There
                        were magazines from every capital in Europe on that long and time-worn
                        table.
                    A warm, soft light filled the room, shed by antique lanthorns and wall-lamps
                        that gave forth no cruel glare. Standing beside the table, the Marchioness
                        was a remarkable picture. The slight, drooping figure of the woman with the
                        dust-cloth and creaking knees had been transformed, like Cinderella, into a
                        fairly regal creature attired in one of the most fetching costumes ever
                        turned out by the rapacious Deborah, of the first floor front!
                    The foyer curtains parted, revealing the plump, venerable figure of a butler
                        who would have done credit to the lordliest house in all England.
                    "Lady Jane Thorne," he announced, and a slim, radiant young
                        person entered the room, and swiftly approached the smiling Marchioness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    OUT OF THE FOUR CORNERS OF THE EARTH
                    "AM I Late?" she inquired, a trace of anxiety in her
                        smiling blue eyes. She was clasping the hand of the taut little Marchioness,
                        who looked up into the lovely face with the frankest admiration.
                    "I have only this instant finished dressing," said her
                        hostess. "Moody informs me we're in for a blizzard. Is it
                        so bad as all that?"
                    "What a perfectly heavenly frock!" cried Lady Jane Thorne,
                        standing off to take in the effect. "Turn around, do. Exquisite!
                        Dear me, I wish I couldbut there! Wishing is a form of envy. We
                        shouldn't wish for anything, Marchioness. If we didn't,
                        don't you see how perfectly delighted we should be with what we
                        have? Oh, yes,it is a horrid night. The trolley-cars are blocked, the
                        omnibuses are stalled, and walking is almost impossible. How good the fire
                        looks!"
                    "Cheerful, isn't it? Now you must let me have my turn at
                        wishing, my dear. If I could have my wish, you would be disporting yourself
                        in the best that Deborah can turn out, and you would be worth millions to
                        her as an advertisement. You've got style, figure, class,
                        verveeverything. You carry your clothes as if you were made for them and not
                        the other way round."
                    "This gown is so old I sometimes think I was made
                             for it," said the girl gaily.
                        "I can't remember when it was made for me."
                    Moody had drawn two chairs up to the fire.
                    "Rubbish!" said the Marchioness, sitting down.
                        "Toast your toes, my dear."
                    Lady Jane's gown was far from modish. In these days of swift
                        changing fashions for women, it had become passe long before its usefulness
                        or its beauty had passed. Any woman would have told you that it was a
                        "season before last model," which would be so distantly
                        removed from the present that its owner may be forgiven the justifiable
                        invention concerning her memory.
                    But Lady Jane's figure was not old, nor pass, nor even a thing to be
                        forgotten easily. She was straight, and slim, and sound of body and limb.
                        That is to say, she stood well on her feet and suggested strength rather
                        than fragility. Her neck and shoulders were smooth and white and firm; her
                        arms shapely and capable, her hands long and slender and aristocratic. Her
                        dark brown hair was abundant and wavy; it had never experienced the baleful
                        caress of a curling-iron. Her firm, red lips were of the smiling kind,and
                        she must have known that her teeth were white and strong and beautiful, for
                        she smiled more often than not with parted lips. There was character,
                        intelligence and breeding in her face.
                    She wore a simple black velvet gown, close-fitting,please remember that it
                        was of an antiquity not even surpassed, as things go, by the oldest rug in
                        the apartment, with a short train. She was fully a head taller than the
                        Marchioness, which isn't saying much when  you are informed that the latter was at least half-ahead
                        shorter than a woman of medium height.
                    On the little finger of her right hand she wore a heavy seal ring of gold. If
                        you had known her well enough to hold her hand to the light, I mean, you
                        would have been able to decipher the markings of a crest, notwithstanding
                        the fact that age had all but obliterated the lines.
                    Dinner was formal only in the manner in which it was served. Behind the chair
                        of the Marchioness, Moody posed loftily when not otherwise employed. A
                        critical observer would have taken note of the threadbare condition of his
                        coat, especially at the elbows, and the somewhat snug way in which it
                        adhered to him, fore and aft. Indeed, there was an ever-present peril in its
                        snugness. He was painfully deliberate and detached.
                    From time to time, a second footman, addressed as McFaddan, paused back of
                        Lady Jane. His chin was not quite so high in the air as Moody's;
                        the higher he raised it the less it looked like a chin. McFaddan, you would
                        remark, carried a great deal of weight above the hips. The ancient butler,
                        Cricklewick, decanted the wine, lifted his right eyebrow for the benefit of
                        Moody, the left in directing McFaddan, and cringed slightly with each trip
                        upward of the dumb-waiter.
                    The Marchioness and Lady Jane were in a gay mood despite the studied
                        solemnity of the three servants. As dinner has no connection with this
                        narrative except to introduce an effect of opulence, we will hurry through
                        with it and allow Moody and McFaddan to draw back the chairs on a signal
                        transmitted by Cricklewick, and return to the drawing-room with the two
                        ladies.
                    
                    A quarter of nine," said the Marchioness, peering at the French
                        clock through her lorgnon. "I am quite sure the Princess will not
                        venture out on such a night as this."
                    "She's really quite an awful pill," said Lady Jane
                        calmly. "I for one sha'n't be broken-hearted if
                        she doesn't venture."
                    "For heaven's sake, don't let Cricklewick hear you
                        say such a thing," said the Marchioness in a furtive undertone.
                    "I've heard Cricklewick say even worse," retorted
                        the girl. She lowered her voice to a confidential whisper. "No
                        longer ago than yesterday he told me that she made him tired, or something
                        of the sort."
                    "Poor Cricklewick! I fear he is losing ambition," mused the
                        Marchioness. "An ideal butler but a most dreary creature the
                        instant he attempts to be a human being. It isn't possible.
                        McFaddan is quite human. That's why he is so fat. I am not sure
                        that I ever told you, but he was quite a slim, puny lad when Cricklewick
                        took him out of the stables and made a very decent footman out of him. That
                        was a great many years ago, of course. Camelford left him a thousand pounds
                        in his will. I have always believed it was hush money. McFaddan was a very
                        wide-awake chap in those days." The Marchioness lowered one eye-lid
                        slowly.
                    "And, by all reports, the Marquis of Camelford was very well worth
                        watching," said Lady Jane.
                    "Hear the wind!" cried the Marchioness, with a little
                        shiver. "How it shrieks!"
                    "We were speaking of the Marquis," said Lady Jane.
                    "But one may always fall back on the weather," said  the Marchioness drily. "Even at its
                        worst it is a pleasanter thing to discuss than Camelford. You can't
                        get anything out of me, my dear. I was his next door neighbour for twenty
                        years, and I don't believe in talking about one's
                        neighbour."
                    Lady Jane stared for a moment. "But how quaint you are! you were
                        married to him almost as long as that, were you not?"
                    "My clearest, I may even say my dearest,recollection of him is as a
                        neighbour, Lady Jane. He was most agreeable next door."
                    Cricklewick appeared in the door.
                    "Count Antonio Fogazario," he announced.
                    A small, wizened man in black satin knee-breeches entered the room and
                        approached the Marchioness. With courtly grace he lifted her fingers to his
                        lips and, in a voice that quavered slightly, declared in French that his joy
                        on seeing her again was only surpassed by the hideous gloom he had
                        experienced during the week that had elapsed since their last meeting.
                    "But now the gloom is dispelled and I am basking in sunshine so rare
                        and soft and "
                    "My dear Count," broke in the Marchioness, "you
                        forget that we are enjoying the worst blizzard of the year."
                    "Enjoying, vastly enjoying it!" he cried. "It is
                        the most enchanting blizzard I have ever known. Ah, my dear Lady Jane! This
                            is delightful!"
                    His sharp little face beamed with pleasure. The vast pleated shirt front
                        extended itself to amazing proportions, as if blown up by an invisible
                        though prodigious bellows, and his elbow described an angle of considerable
                             elevation as he clasped the slim hand of
                        the tall young woman. The crown of his sleek black toupee was on a line with
                        her shoulder.
                    "God bless me," he added, in a somewhat astonished manner,
                        "this is most gratifying. I could not have lifted it half that high
                        yesterday without experiencing the most excruciating agony." He
                        worked his arm up and down experimentally. "Quite all right, quite
                        all right. I feared I was in for another siege. I cannot tell you how
                        delighted I am. Ahem! Where was I? Oh, yes This is a pleasure, Lady Jane, a
                        positive delight. How charming you are look "
                    "Save your compliments, Count, for the Princess,"
                        interrupted the girl, smiling. "She is coming, you know."
                    "I doubt it," he said, fumbling for his snuff-box.
                        "I saw her this afternoon. Chilblains. Weather like this, you see.
                        Quite a distance from her place to the street-cars. Frightful going. I doubt
                        it very much. Now, what was it she said to me this afternoon? Something very
                        important, I remember distinctly, but it seems to have slipped my mind
                        completely. I am fearfully annoyed with myself. I remember with great
                        distinctness that it was something I was determined to remember, and here I
                        am forgetting Ah, let me see! It comes to me like a flash. I have it! She
                        said she felt as though she had a cold coming on or something like that.
                        Yes, I am sure that was it. I remember she blew her nose frequently, and she
                        always makes a dreadful noise when she blows her nose. A really unforgetable
                        noise, you know. Now, when I blow my nose, I don't behave like an
                        elephant. I "
                    
                    "You blow it like a gentleman," interrupted the
                        Marchioness, as he paused in some confusion.
                    "Indeed I do," he said gratefully. "In the most
                        polished manner possible, my dear lady."
                    Lady Jane put her handkerchief to her lips. There was a period of silence.
                        The Count appeared to be thinking with great intensity. He had a harassed
                        expression about the corners of his nose. It was he who broke the silence.
                        He broke it with a most tremendous sneeze.
                    "The beastly snuff," he said in apology.
                    Cricklewick's voice seemed to act as an echo to the remark.
                    "The Right-Honourable Mrs. Priestly-Duff," he announced,
                        and an angular, middle-aged lady in a rose-coloured gown entered the room.
                        She had a very long nose and prominent teeth; her neck was of amazing length
                        and appeared to be attached to her shoulders by means of vertical,
                        skin-covered ropes, running from torso to points just behind her ears, where
                        they were lost in a matting of faded, straw-coloured hair. On second
                        thought, it may be simpler to remark that her neck was amazingly scrawny. It
                        will save confusion. Her voice was a trifle strident and her French
                        execrable.
                    "Isn't it awful?" she said as she joined the trio
                        at the fireplace. "I thought I'd never get here. Two hours
                        coming, my dear, and I must be starting home at once if I want to get there
                        before midnight."
                    "The Princess will be here," said the Marchioness.
                    "I'll wait fifteen minutes," said the new-comer
                             crisply, pulling up her gloves.
                        "I've had a trying day, Marchioness. Everything has gone
                        wrong, even the drains. They're frozen as tight as a drum and
                        heaven knows when they'll get them thawed out! Who ever heard of
                        such weather in March?"
                    "Ah, my dear Mrs. Priestly-Duff, you should not forget the beautiful
                        sunshine we had yesterday," said the Count cheerily.
                    "Precious little good it does today," she retorted, looking
                        down upon him from a lofty height, and as if she had not noticed his
                        presence before. "When did you come in, Count?"
                    "It is quite likely the Princess will not venture out in such
                        weather," interposed the Marchioness, sensing squalls.
                    "Well, I'll stop a bit anyway and get my feet warm. I hope
                        she doesn't come. She is a good deal of a wet blanket, you must
                        admit."
                    "Wet blankets," began the Count argumentatively, and then,
                        catching a glance from the Marchioness, cleared his throat, blew his nose,
                        and mumbled something about poor people who had no blankets at all, God help
                        them on such a night as this.
                    Lady Jane had turned away from the group and was idly turning the leaves of
                        the Illustrated London News. The smallest intelligence
                        would have grasped the fact that Mrs. Priestly-Duff was not a genial soul.
                    "Who else is coming?" she demanded, fixing the little
                        hostess with the stare that had just been removed from the back of Lady
                        Jane's head.
                    Cricklewick answered from the doorway.
                    
                    "Lord Temple. Baron ahem! Whiskers eh? Baron Wissmer. Prince
                        Waldemar de Bosky. Count Wilhelm Frederick Von Blitzen."
                    Four young men advanced upon the Marchioness, Lord Temple in the van. He was
                        a tall, good-looking chap, with light brown hair that curled slightly above
                        the ears, and eyes that danced.
                    "This, my dear Marchioness, is my friend, Baron Wissmer,"
                        he said, after bending low over her hand.
                    The Baron, whose broad hands were encased in immaculate white gloves that
                        failed by a wide margin to button across his powerful wrists, smiled
                        sheepishly as he enveloped her fingers in his huge palm.
                    "It is good of you to let me come, Marchioness," he said
                        awkwardly, a deep flush spreading over his sea-tanned face. "If I
                        manage to deport myself like the bull in the china shop, pray lay it to
                        clumsiness and not to ignorance. It has been a very long time since I
                        touched the hand of a Marchioness."
                    " Small people, like myself, may well afford to be kind and
                        forgiving to giants," said she, smiling. "Dear me, how
                        huge you are."
                    "I was once in the Emperor's Guard," said he,
                        straightening his figure to its full six feet and a half. "The Blue
                        Hussars. I may add with pride that I was not so horribly clumsy in
                        regimentals. After all, it is the clothes that makes the man." He
                        smiled as he looked himself over. "I shall not be at all offended
                        or even embarrassed if you say 'goodness, how you have
                        grown!'"
                    "The best tailor in London made that suit of clothes," said
                        Lord Temple, surveying his friend with  an
                        appraising eye. Out of the corner of the same eye he explored the region
                        beyond the group that now clustered about the hostess. Evidently he
                        discovered what he was looking for. Leaving the Baron high and dry, he
                        skirted the edge of the group and, with beaming face, came to Lady Jane.
                    "My family is of Vienna," the Baron was saying to the
                        Marchioness," but of late years I have called Constantinople my
                        home."
                    "I understand," said she gently. She asked no other
                        question, but, favouring him with a kindly smile, turned her attention to
                        the men who lurked insignificantly in the shadow of his vast bulk.
                    The Prince was a pale, dreamy young man with flowing black hair that must
                        have been a constant menace to his vision, judging by the frequent and
                        graceful sweep of his long, slender hand in brushing the encroaching
                        forelock from his eyes, over which it spread briefly in the nature of a
                        veil. He had the fingers of a musician, the bearing of a violinist. His head
                        drooped slightly toward his left shoulder, which was always raised a trifle
                        above the level of the right. And there was in his soft brown eyes the
                        faraway look of the detached. The insignia of his house hung suspended by a
                        red ribbon in the centre of his white shirt front, while on the lapel of his
                        coat reposed the emblem of the Order of the Golden Star. He was a Pole.
                    Count Von Blitzen, a fair-haired, pink-skinned German, urged himself forward
                        with typical, not-to-be-denied arrogance, and crushed the fingers of the
                        Marchioness in his fat hand. His broad face beamed with an all-enveloping
                        smile.
                    
                    "Only patriots and lovers venture forth on such nights as
                        this," he said, in a guttural voice that rendered his French almost
                        laughable.
                    "With an occasional thief or varlet," supplemented the
                        Marchioness.
                    "Ach, Dieu," murmured the Count.
                    Fresh arrivals were announced by Cricklewick. For the next ten or fifteen
                        minutes they came thick and fast, men and women of all ages, nationality and
                        condition, and not one of them without a high-sounding title. They disposed
                        themselves about the vast room, and a subdued vocal hubbub ensued. If here
                        and there elderly guests, with gnarled and painfully scrubbed hands,
                        preferred isolation and the pictorial contents of a magazine from the land
                        of their nativity, it was not with snobbish intentions. They were absorbing
                        the news from "home," in the regular weekly doses.
                    The regal, respendent Countess du Bara, of the Opera, held court in one
                        corner of the room. Another was glorified by a petite baroness from the
                        Artists' Colony far down-town, while a rather dowdy lady with a
                        coronet monopolized the attention of a small group in the centre of the
                        room.
                    Lady Jane Thorne and Lord Temple sat together in a dim recess beyond the
                        great chair of state, and conversed in low and far from impersonal tones.
                    Cricklewick appeared in the doorway and in his most impressive manner
                        announced Her Royal Highness, the Princess Mariana Theresa Sebastano
                        Michelini Celes-tine di Pavesi.
                    And with the entrance of royalty, kind reader, you  may consider yourself introduced, after a fashion, to the real
                        aristocracy of the City of New York, United States of America, the titled
                        riff-raff of the world's cosmopolis.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE CITY OF MASKS
                    NEW YORK is not merely a melting pot for the poor and the humble of the lands
                        of the earth. In its capacious depths, unknown and unsuspected, float atoms
                        of an entirely different sort: human beings with the blood of the high-born
                        and lofty in their veins, derelicts swept up by the varying winds of
                        adversity, adventure, injustice, lawlessness, fear and independence.
                    Lords and ladies, dukes and duchesses, counts and countesses, swarm to the
                        Metropolis in the course of the speeding year, heralded by every newspaper
                        in the land, feted and feasted and glorified by a capricious and easily
                        impressed public; they pass with pomp and panoply and we let them go with
                        reluctance and a vociferous invitation to come again. They come and they go,
                        and we are informed each morning and evening of every move they have made
                        during the day and night. We are told what they eat for breakfast, luncheon
                        and dinner; what they wear and what they do not wear; where they are
                        entertained and by whom; who they are and why; what they think of New York
                        and but why go on? We deny them privacy, and they think we are a wonderful,
                        considerate and hospitable people. They go back to their homes in far-off
                        lands, and that is the end of them so far as we are concerned.
                    They merely pause on the lip of the melting pot,  briefly peer into its simmering depths, and then, pass on.
                    It is not with such as they that this narrative has to deal. It is not of the
                        heralded, the glorified and the toasted that we tell, but of those who slip
                        into the pot with the coarser ingredients, and who never, by any chance,
                        become actually absorbed by the processes of integration but remain for ever
                        as they were in the beginning: distinct foreign substances.
                    From all quarters of the globe the drift comes to our shores. New York
                        swallows the good with the bad, and thrives, like the cannibal, on the
                        man-food it gulps down with ravenous disregard for consequences or effect.
                        It rarely disgorges.
                    It eats all flesh, foul or fair, and it drinks good red blood out of the same
                        cup that offers a black and nauseous bile. It conceals its inward revulsion
                        behind a bland, disdainful smile, and holds out its hands for more of the
                        meat and poison that comes up from the sea in ships.
                    It is the City of Masks.
                    Its men and women hide behind a million masks; no man looks beneath the mask
                        his neighbour wears, for he is interested only in that which he sees with
                        the least possible effort: the surface. He sees his neighbour but he knows
                        him not. He keeps his own mask in place and wanders among the millions,
                        secure in the thought that all other men are as casual as he, and as
                        charitable.
                    From time to time the newspapers come forward with stories that amaze and
                        interest those of us who remain, and always will remain, romantic and
                        impressionable.  They tell of the royal
                        princess living in squalor on the lower east side; of the heir to a
                        baronetcy dying in poverty in a hospital somewhere up-town; of the countess
                        who defies the wolf by dancing in the roof-gardens; of the lost arch-duke
                        who has been recognized in a gang of stevedores; of the earl who lands in
                        jail as an ordinary hobo; of the baroness who supports a shiftless husband
                        and their offspring by giving music-lessons; of the retiring scholar who
                        scorns a life of idlness and a coronet besides; of shifty
                        ne'er-do-wells with titles at homes and aliases elsewhere; of
                        fugitive lords and forgotten ladies; of thieves and bauds and wastrels who
                        stand revealed in their extremity as the sons and daughters of noble houses.
                    In this City of Masks there are hundreds of men and women in whose veins the
                        blood of a sound aristocracy flows. By choice or necessity they have donned
                        the mask of obscurity. They tread the paths of oblivion. They toil, beg or
                        steal to keep pace with circumstance. But the blood will not be denied. In
                        the breast of each of these drifters throbs the pride of birth, in the soul
                        of each flickers the unquenchable flame of caste. The mask is for the man
                        outside, not for the man inside.
                    Recently there died in one of the municipal hospitals an old flower-woman,
                        familiar for three decades to the thousands who thread their way through the
                        maze of streets in the lower end of Manhattan. To them she was known as Old
                        Peg. To herself she was the Princess Feododric, born to the purple, daughter
                        of one of the greatest families in Russia. She was never anything but the
                        Princess to herself, despite the squalor in which she lived. Her epitaph was
                        written in the bold,  black head-lines of the
                        newspapers; but her history was laid away with her mask in a graveyard far
                        from palaces and flower-stands. Her headstone revealed the uncompromising
                        pride that survived her after death. By her direction it bore the name of
                        Feododric, eldest daughter of His Highness, Prince Michael Androvod-ski;
                        born in St. Petersburg, September 12, 1841; died Jan. 7, 1912; wife of James
                        Lumley, of County Cork, Ireland.
                    It is of the high-born who dwell in low places that this tale is told. It is
                        of an aristocracy that serves and smiles and rarely sneers behind its mask.
                    When Cricklewick announced the Princess Mariana Theresa the hush of deference
                        fell upon the assembled company. In the presence of royalty no one remained
                        seated.
                    She advanced slowly, ponderously into the room, bowing right and left as she
                        crossed to the great chair at the upper end. One by one the others presented
                        themselves and kissed the coarse, unlovely hand she held out to them. It was
                        not "make-believe." It was her due. The blood of a king
                        and a queen coursed through her veins; she had been born a Princess Royal.
                    She was sixty, but her hair was as black as the coat of the raven. Time,
                        tribulation, and a harsh destiny had put each its own stamp upon her dark,
                        almost sinister, face. The black eyes were sharp and calculating, and they
                        did not smile with her thin lips. She wore a great amount of jewellery and a
                        gown of blue velvet, lavishly bespangled and generously embellished with
                        laces of many periods, values and, you could say, nativity.
                    The Honourable Mrs. Priestly-Duff having been a 
                        militant suffragette before a sudden and enforced departure from England,
                        was the only person there with the hardihood to proclaim, not altogether sotto voce, that the "get-was" up a
                        fright.
                    Restraint vanished the instant the last kiss of tribute fell upon her
                        knuckles. The Princess put her hand to her side, caught her breath sharply,
                        and remarked to the Marchioness, who stood near by, that it was dreadful the
                        way she was putting on weight. She was afraid of splitting something if she
                        took a long, natural breath.
                    "I haven't weighed myself lately," she
                        said," but the last time I had this dress on it felt like a kimono.
                        Look at it now! You could not stuff a piece of tissue paper between it and
                        me to save your soul. I shall have to let it out a couple of What were you
                        about to say, Count Fogazario?"
                    The little Count, at the Marchioness's elbow, repeated something he
                        had already said, and added:
                    "And if it continues there will not be a trolley-car running by
                        midnight."
                    The Princess eyed him coldly. "That is just like a man,"
                        she said. "Not the faintest idea of what we were talking about,
                        Marchioness."
                    The Count bowed. "You were speaking of tissue paper,
                        Princess," said he, stiffly. "I understood
                        perfectly."
                    Once a week the Marchioness held her amazing salon. Strictly speaking, it was
                        a cooperative affair. The socalled guests were in reality contributors to
                        and supporters of an enterprise that had been going on for the matter of
                        five years in the heart of unsuspecting New York. According to his or her
                        means, each of these  exiles paid the tithe or
                        tax necessary, and became in fact a member of the inner circle.
                    From nearly every walk in life they came to this common, converging point,
                        and sat them down with their equals, for the moment laying aside the mask to
                        take up a long-discarded and perhaps despised reality. They became lords and
                        ladies all over again, and not for a single instant was there the slightest
                        deviation from dignity or form.
                    Moral integrity was the only requirement, and that, for obvious reasons, was
                        sometimes overlooked, as for example in the case of the Countess who eloped
                        with the young artist and lived in complacent shame and happiness with him
                        in a three-room flat in East Nineteenth street. The artist himself was
                        barred from the salon, not because of his ignoble action, but for the
                        sufficient reason that he was of ignoble birth. Outside the charmed conclave
                        he was looked upon as a most engaging chap. And there was also the case of
                        the appallingly amiable baron who had fired four shots at a Russian
                        Grand-Duke and got away with his life in spite of the vaunted secret
                        service. It was of no moment whatsoever that one of his bullets accidentally
                        put an end to the life of a guardsman. That was merely proof of his
                        earnestness and in no way reflected on his standing as a nobleman. Nor was
                        it adequate cause for rejection that certain of these men and women were
                        being sought by Imperial Governments because they were political fugitives,
                        with prices on their heads.
                    The Marchioness, more prosperous than any of her associates, assumed the
                        greater part of the burden attending this singular reversion to form. It was
                        she  who held the lease on the building, from
                        cellar to roof, and it was she who paid that important item of expense: the
                        rent. The Marchioness was no other than the celebrated Deborah, whose gowns
                        issuing from the lower floors at prodigious prices, gave her a standing in
                        New York that not even the plutocrats and parvenus could dispute. In private
                        life she may have been a Marchioness, but to all New York she was known as
                        the queen of dressmakers.
                    If you desired to consult Deborah in person you inquired for Mrs. Sparflight,
                        or if you happened to be a new customer and ignorant, you were set straight
                        by an attendant (with a slight uplifting of the eyebrows) when you asked for
                        Madame "Deborah."
                    The ownership of the rare pieces of antique furniture, rugs, tapestries and
                        paintings was vested in two members of the circle, one occupying a position
                        in the centre of the ring, the other on the outer rim: Count Antonio
                        Fogazario and Moody, the footman. For be it known that while Moody reverted
                        once a week to a remote order of existence he was for the balance of the
                        time an exceedingly prosperous, astute and highly respected dealer in
                        antiques, with a shop in Madison Avenue and a clientele that considered it
                        the grossest impertinence to dispute the prices he demanded. He always
                        looked forward to these "drawing-rooms," so to speak. It
                        was rather a joy to disregard the aspirates. He dropped enough hs on a
                        single evening to make up for a whole week of deliberate speech.
                    As for Count Antonio, he was the purveyor of Italian antiques and primitive
                        paintings," authenticity guaranteed," doing business under
                        the name of "Juneo &  Co.,
                        Ltd. London, Paris, Rome, New York." He was known in the trade and
                        at his bank as Mr. Juneo.
                    Occasionally the exigencies of commerce necessitated the substitution of an
                        article from stock for one temporarily loaned to the fifth-floor
                        drawing-room.
                    During the seven days in the week, Mr. Moody and Mr. Juneo observed a
                        strained but common equality. Mr. Moody contemptuously referred to Mr. Juneo
                        as a second-hand dealer, while Mr. Juneo, with commercial bitterness,
                        informed his patrons that Pickett, Inc., needed a lot of watching. But on
                        these Wednesday nights a vast abyss stretched between them. They were no
                        longer rivals in business. Mr. Juneo, without the slightest sign of
                        arrogance, put Mr. Moody in his place, and Mr. Moody, with perfect
                        equanimity, quite properly stayed there.
                    "A chair over here, Moody," the Count would say (to
                        Pickett, Inc.,) and Moody, with all the top-lofty obsequiousness of the
                        perfect footman, would place a chair in the designated spot, and say:
                    "H'anythink else, my lord? Thank you, sir."
                    On this particular Wednesday night two topics of paramount interest engaged
                        the attention of the company. The newspapers of that day had printed the
                        story of the apprehension and seizure of one Peter Jo-linski, wanted in
                        Warsaw on the charge of assassination.
                    As Count Andreas Verdray he was known to this exclusive circle of Europeans,
                        and to them he was a persecuted, unjustly accused fugitive from the land of
                        his nativity. Russian secret service men had run him to earth after five
                        years of relentless pursuit. As a respectable, 
                        industrious window-washer he had managed for years to evade arrest for a
                        crime he had not committed, and now he was in jail awaiting extradition and
                        almost certain death at the hands of his intriguing enemies. A cultured
                        scholar, a true gentleman, he was, despite his vocation, one of the most
                        distinguished units in this little world of theirs. The authorities in
                        Warsaw charged him with instigating the plot to assassinate a powerful and
                        autocratic officer of the Crown. In more or less hushed voices, the
                        assemblage discussed the unhappy event.
                    The other topic was the need of immediate relief for the family of the
                        Baroness de Flamme, who was on her death-bed in Harlem and whose three small
                        children, deprived of the support of a hard-working music-teacher and
                        deserted by an unconscionably plebeian father, were in a pitiable state of
                        destitution. Acting on the suggestion of Lord Temple, who as Thomas Trotter
                        earned a weekly stipend of thirty dollars as chauffeur for a prominent Park
                        Avenue gentleman, a collection was taken, each person giving according to
                        his means. The largest contribution was from Count Fogazario, who headed the
                        list with twenty-five dollars. The Marchioness was down for twenty. The
                        smallest donation was from Prince Waldemar. Producing a solitary coin, he
                        made change, and after saving out ten cents for carfare, donated forty
                        cents.
                    Cricklewick, Moody and McFaddan were not invited to contribute. No one would
                        have dreamed of asking them to join in such a movement. And yet, of all
                        those present, the three men-servants were in a better position than any one
                        else to give handsomely. They were,  in fact,
                        the richest men there. The next morning, however, would certainly bring
                        checks from their offices to the custodian of the fund, the Hon. Mrs.
                        Priestly-Duff. They knew their places on Wednesday night, however.
                    The Countess du Bara, from the Opera, sang later on in the evening; Prince
                        Waldemar got out his violin and played; the gay young baroness from the
                        Artists' Colony played accompaniments very badly on the baby grand
                        piano; Cricklewick and the footmen served coffee and sandwiches, and every
                        one smoked in the dining-room.
                    At eleven o'clock the Princess departed. She complained a good deal
                        of her feet.
                    "It's the weather," she explained to the
                        Marchioness, wincing a little as she made her way to the door.
                    "Too bad," said the Marchioness. "Are we to be
                        honoured on next Wednesday night, your highness? You do not often grace our
                        gatherings, you know. I
                    "It will depend entirely on circumstances," said the
                        Princess, graciously.
                    Circumstances, it may be mentioned, though they never were mentioned on
                        Wednesday nights, had a great deal to do with the Princess's
                        actions. She conducted a pawn-shop in Baxter street. As the widow and sole
                        legatee of Moses Jacobs, she was quite a figure in the street. Customers
                        came from all corners of the town, and without previous appointment. Report
                        had it that Mrs. Jacobs was rolling in money. People slunk in and out of the
                        front door of her place of business, penniless on entering, affluent on
                        leaving, if you  would call the possession of a
                        dollar or two affluence, and always with the resolve in their souls to some
                        day get even with the leech who stood behind the counter and doled out
                        nickels where dollars were expected.
                    It was an open secret that more than one of those who kissed the
                        Princess's hand in the Marchioness's drawing-room carried
                        pawnchecks issued by Mrs. Jacobs. Business was business. Sentiment entered
                        the soul of the Princess only on such nights as she found it convenient and
                        expedient to present herself at the Salon. It vanished the instant she put
                        on her street clothes on the floor below and passed out into the night.
                        Avarice stepped in as sentiment stepped out, and one should not expect too
                        much of avarice.
                    For one, the dreamy, half-starved Prince Waldemar was rarely without
                        pawnchecks from her delectable establishment. Indeed it had been impossible
                        for him to entertain the company on this stormy evening except for her
                        grudging consent to substitute his overcoat for the Stradivarius he had been
                        obliged to leave the day before.
                    Without going too deeply into her history, it is only necessary to say that
                        she was one of those wayward, wilful princesses royal who occasionally
                        violate all tradition and marry good-looking young Americans or Englishmen,
                        and disappear promptly and automatically from court circles.
                    She ran away when she was nineteen with a young attach in the British
                        legation. It was the worst thing that could have happened to the poor chap.
                        For years they drifted through many lands, finally ending in New York,
                        where, their resources having been exhausted, 
                        she was forced to pawn her jewellery. The pawnbroker was one Abraham Jacobs,
                        of Baxter street.
                    The young English husband, disheartened and thoroughly disillusioned, shot
                        himself one fine day. By a single coincidence, a few weeks afterward, old
                        Abraham went to his fathers in the most agreeable fashion known to nature,
                        leaving his business, including the princess's jewels, to his son
                        Moses.
                    With rare foresight and acumen, Mrs. Brinsley (the Princess, in other words),
                        after several months of contemplative mourning, redeemed her treasure by
                        marrying Moses. And when Moses, after begetting Solomon, David and Hannah,
                        passed on at the age of twoscore years and ten, she continued the business
                        with even greater success than he. She did not alter the name that
                        flourished in large gold letters on the two show windows and above the
                        hospitable doorway. For twenty years it had read: The Royal Exchange: M.
                        Jacobs, Proprietor. And now you know all that is necessary to know about
                        Mariana, to this day a true princess of the blood.
                    Inasmuch as a large share of her business came through customers who
                        preferred to visit her after the fall of night, there is no further need to
                        explain her reply to the Marchioness.
                    When midnight came the Marchioness was alone in the deserted drawing-room. The company had dispersed to the four corners of the
                        storm-swept city, going by devious means and routes.
                    They fared forth into the night sans ceremony, sans
                        regalia. In the locker-rooms on the floor below each of these noble wights
                        divested himself and herself of the  raiment
                        donned for the occasion. With the turning of a key in the locker door,
                        barons became ordinary men, countesses became mere women, and all of them
                        stole regretfully out of the passage at the foot of the first flight of
                        stairs and shivered in the wind that blew through the City of Masks.
                    "I've got more money than I know what to do with, Miss
                        Emsdale," said Tom Trotter, as they went together out into the
                        bitter wind. "I'll blow you off to a taxi."
                    "I couldn't think of it," said the erstwhile Lady
                        Jane, drawing her small stole close about her neek.
                    "But it's on my way home," said he.
                        "I'll drop you at your front door. Please do."
                    "If I may stand half," she said resolutely.
                    "We'll see," said he. "Wait here in the
                        doorway till I fetch a taxi from the hotel over there. Oh, I say, Herman,
                        would you mind asking one of those drivers over there to pick us up
                        here?"
                    "Sure," said Herman, one time Count Wilhelm Frederick Von
                        Blitzen, who had followed them to the sidewalk. "Fierce night,
                        ain'd it? Py chiminy, ain'd it?"
                    "Where is your friend, Mr. Trotter," inquired Miss Emsdale,
                        as the stalwart figure of one of the most noted head-waiters in New York
                        struggled off against the wind.
                    "He beat it quite a while ago," said he, with an
                        enlightening grin.
                    "Oh?" said she, and met his glance in the darkness. A
                        sudden warmth swept over her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE SCION OF A NEW YORK HOUSE
                    AS Miss Emsdale and Thomas Trotter got down from the taxi, into a huge
                        unbroken snowdrift in front of a house in one of the cross-town streets just
                        off upper Fifth Avenue, a second taxi drew up behind them and barked a
                        raucous command to pull up out of the way. But the first taxi was unable to
                        do anything of the sort, being temporarily though explosively stalled in the
                        drift along the curb. Whereupon the fare in the second taxi threw open the
                        door and, with an audible imprecation, plunged into the drift, just in time
                        to witness the interesting spectacle of a lady being borne across the
                        snow-piled sidewalk in the arms of a stalwart man; and, as he gazed in
                        amazement, the man and his burden ascended the half-dozen steps leading to
                        the storm-vestibule of the very house to which he himself was bound.
                    His first shock of apprehension was dissipated almost instantly. The
                        man's burden giggled quite audibly as he set her down inside the
                        storm doors. That giggle was proof positive that she was neither dead nor
                        injured. She was very much alive, there could be no doubt about it. But who
                        was she?
                    The newcomer swore softly as he fumbled in his trousers' pocket for
                        a coin for the driver who had run him up from the club. After an
                        exasperating but seemingly necessary delay he hurried up the steps. He met
                        the  stalwart burden-bearer coming down. A
                        servant had opened the door and the late burden was passing into the hall.
                    He peered sharply into the face of the man who was leaving, and recognized
                        him.
                    "Hello," he said. "Some one ill,
                        Trotter?"
                    "No, Mr. Smith-Parvis," replied Trotter in some confusion.
                        "Disagreeable night, isn't it?"
                    "In some respects," said young Mr. Smith-Parvis, and dashed
                        into the vestibule before the footman could close the door.
                    Miss Emsdale turned at the foot of the broad stairway as she heard the
                        servant greet the young master. A swift flush mounted to her cheeks. Her
                        heart beat a little faster, notwithstanding the fact that it had been
                        beating with unusual rapidity ever since Thomas Trotter disregarded her
                        protests and picked her up in his strong arms.
                    "Hello," he said, lowering his voice.
                    There was a light in the library beyond. His father was there, taking
                        advantage, no doubt, of the midnight lull to read the evening newspapers.
                        The social activities of the Smith-Parvises gave him but little opportunity
                        to read the evening papers prior to the appearance of the morning papers.
                    "What is the bally rush?" went on the young man, slipping
                        out of his fur-lined overcoat and leaving it pendant in the hands of the
                        footman. Miss Emsdale, after responding to his hushed
                        "hello" in an equally subdued tone, had started up the
                        stairs.
                    "It is very late, Mr. Smith-Parvis. Good night."
                    "Never too late to mend," he said, and was supermely  well-satisfied with what a superior
                        intelligence might have recorded as a cryptic remark but what, to him, was
                        an awfully clever "come-back." He had spent three years at
                        Oxford. No beastly American college for him, by Jove!
                    Overcoming a cultivated antipathy to haste, which he considered the lowest
                        form of ignorance, he bounded up the steps, three at a time, and overtook
                        her midway to the top.
                    "I say, Miss Emsdale, I saw you come in, don't you know. I
                        couldn't believe my eyes. What the deuce were you doing out with
                        that common er chauffeur? D'you mean to say that you are running
                        about with a chap of that sort, and letting him "
                    "If you please, Mr. Smith-Parvis!"
                        interrupted Miss Emsdale coldly. "Good night!"
                    "I don't mean to say you haven't the right to go about with any one you please," he persisted,
                        planting himself in front of her at the top of the steps." But a
                        common chauffeur Well, now, 'pon my word, Miss Emsdale, really you
                        might just as well be seen with Peasley down there."
                    "Peasley is out of the question," said she, affecting a wry
                        little smile, as of self-pity. "He is tooken, as you say in
                        America. He walks out with Bessie, the parlour-maid."
                    "Walks out? Good Lord, you don't mean to say you'd
                        but, of course, you're spoofing me. One never knows how to take you
                        English, no matter how long one may have lived in England. But I am serious.
                        You cannot afford to be seen running around nights with fellows of that
                        stripe. Rotten bounders, that's  what
                        I call 'em. Ever been out with him before?"
                    "Often, Mr. Smith-Parvis," she replied calmly. "I
                        am sure you would like him if you knew him better. He is really a very
                        "
                    "Nonsense! He is a good chauffeur, I've no doubt, Lawrie
                        Carpenter says he's a treasure, but I've no desire to know
                        him any better. And I don't like to think of you knowing him quite
                        as well as you do, Miss Emsdale. See what I mean?"
                    "Perfectly. You mean that you will go to your mother with the report
                        that I am not a fit person to be with the children. Isn't that what
                        you mean?"
                    "Not at all. I'm not thinking of the kids. I'm
                        thinking of myself. I'm pretty keen about you, and "
                    "Aren't you forgetting yourself, Mr.
                        Smith-Parvis?" she demanded curtly.
                    "Oh, I know there'd be a devil of a row if the mater ever
                        dreamed that I Oh, I say! Don't rush off in a huff. Wait a
                        "
                    But she had brushed past him and was swiftly ascending the second flight of
                        stairs.
                    He stared after her in astonishment. He couldn't understand such
                        stupidity, not even in a governess. There wasn't another girl in
                        New York City, so far as he knew, who wouldn't have been pleased
                        out of her boots to receive the significant mark of interest he was
                        bestowing upon this lowly governess, and here was she
                        turning her back upon, Why, what was the matter with her? He passed his hand
                        over his brow and blinked a couple of times. And she only a paid governess!
                        It was incredible.
                    
                    He went slowly downstairs and, still in a sort of daze, found himself a few
                        minutes later pouring out a large drink of whiskey in the dining-room. It
                        was his habit to take a bottle of soda with his whiskey, but on this
                        occasion he overcame it and gulped the liquor "neat." It
                        appeared to be rather uplifting, so he had another. Then he went up to his
                        own room and sulked for an hour before even preparing for bed. The more he
                        thought of it, the graver her unseemly affront became.
                    "And to have her insult me like that," he
                        said to himself over and over again, "when not three minutes before
                        she had let that bally bounder carry her up By gad, I'll give her
                        something to think about in the morning. She sha'n't do
                        that sort of thing to me. She'll find herself out of a job and with
                        a damned poor reference in her pocket if she gets gay with me.
                        She'll come down from her high horse, all right, all right.
                        Positions like this one don't grow in the park. She's got
                        to understand that. She can't go running around with chauffeurs and
                        all My God, to think that he had her in his arms! The one girl in all the
                        world who has ever really made me sit up and take notice! Gad, I I
                        can't stand it I can't bear to think of her cuddling up to
                        that The damned bounder!"
                    He sprang to his feet and bolted out into the hall. He was a spoiled young
                        man with an aversion: an aversion to being denied anything that he wanted.
                    In the brief history of the Smith-Parvis family he occupied many full and far
                        from prosaic pages. Smith-Parvis, Senior, was not a prodigal sort of person,
                        and yet he had squandered a great many thousands of dollars in his time on
                        Smith-Parvis, Junior. It costs  money to bring
                        up young men like Smith-Parvis, Junior; and by the same token it costs money
                        to hold them down. The family history, if truthfully written, would contain
                        passages in which the unbridled ambitions of Smith-Parvis, Junior,
                        overwhelmed everything else. There would be the chapters excoriating the two
                        chorusgirls who, in not widely separated instances, consented to release the
                        young man from matrimonial pledges in return for so much cash; and there
                        would be numerous paragraphs pertaining to auction-bridge, and others
                        devoted entirely to tailors; to say nothing of uncompromising caf and
                        restaurant keepers who preferred the Smith-Parvis money to the Smith-Parvis
                        trade.
                    The young man, having come to the conclusion that he wanted Miss Emsdale,
                        ruthlessly decided to settle the matter at once. He would not wait till
                        morning. He would go up to her room and tell her that if she knew what was
                        good for her she'd listen to what he had to say. She was too nice a
                        girl to throw herself away on a rotter like Trotter.
                    Then, as he came to the foot of the steps, he remembered the expression in
                        her eyes as she swept past him an hour earlier. It suddenly occurred to him
                        to pause and reflect. The look she gave him, now that he thought of it, was
                        not that of a timid, frightened menial. Far from it! There was something
                        imperious about it; he recalled the subtle, fleeting and hitherto unfamiliar
                        chill it gave him.
                    Somewhat to his own amazement, he returned to his room and closed the door
                        with surprising care. He usually slammed it.
                    "Dammit all," he said, half aloud, scowling at his  reflection in the mirror across the room,
                        "I I wonder if she thinks she can put on airs with me."
                        Later on he regained his self-assurance sufficiently to utter an ultimatum
                        to the invisible offender: "You'll be eating out of my
                        hand before you're two days older, my fine lady, or I'll
                        know the reason why."
                    Smith-Parvis, Junior, wore the mask of a gentleman. As a matter-of-fact, the
                        entire Smith-Parvis family went about masked by a similar air of gentility.
                    The hyphen had a good deal to do with it.
                    The head of the family, up to the time he came of age, was William Philander
                        Smith, commonly called Bill by the young fellows in Yonkers. A maternal
                        uncle, name of Parvis, being without wife or child at the age of
                        seventy-eight, indicated a desire to perpetuate his name by hitching it to
                        the sturdiest patronymic in the English language, and forthwith made a will,
                        leaving all that he possessed to his only nephew, on condition that the said
                        nephew and all his descendants should bear, henceforth and for ever, the
                        name of Smith-Parvis.
                    That is how it all came about. William Philander, shortly after the fusion of
                        names, fell heir to a great deal of money and in due time forsook Yonkers
                        for Manhattan, where he took unto himself a wife in the person of Miss
                        Angela Potts, only child of the late Simeon Potts, Esq., and Mrs. Potts,
                        neither of whom, it would seem, had the slightest desire to perpetuate the
                        family name. Indeed, as Angela was getting along pretty well toward thirty,
                        they rather made a point of abolishing it before it was too late.
                    The first-born of William Philander and Angela was christened Stuyvesant Van
                        Sturdevant Smith-Parvis,  after one of the
                        Pottses who came over at a time when the very best families in Holland,
                        according to the infant's grandparents, were engaged in
                        establishing an aristocracy at the foot of Manhattan Island.
                    After Stuy vesant, ten years after, in fact, came Regina Angela, who
                        languished a while in the laps of the Pottses and the Smith-Parvis nurses,
                        and died expectedly. When Stuyvie was fourteen the twins, Lucille and
                        Eudora, came, and at that the Smith-Parvises packed up and went to England
                        to live. Stuyvie managed in some way to make his way through Eton and part
                        of the way through Oxford. He was sent down in his third year. It
                        wasn't so easy to have his own way there. Moreover, he did not like
                        Oxford because the rest of the boys persisted in calling him an American. He
                        didn't mind being called a New Yorker, but they were rather
                        obstinate about it.
                    Miss Emsdale was the new governess. The redoubtable Mrs. Sparflight had
                        recommended her to Mrs. Smith-Parvis. Since her advent into the home in
                        Fifth Avenue, some three or four months prior to the opening of this
                        narrative, a marked change had come over Stuy-vesant Van Sturdevant. It was
                        principally noticeable in a recently formed habit of getting down to
                        breakfast early. The twins and the governess had breakfast at half-past
                        eight. Up to this time he had detested the twins. Of late, however, he
                        appeared to have discovered that they were his sisters and rather
                        interesting little beggars at that.
                    They were very much surprised by his altered behaviour. To the new governess
                        they confided the somewhat startling suspicion that Stuyvie must be having
                             softening of the brain, just as
                        "grandpa" had when "papa" discovered
                        that he was giving diamond rings to the servants and smiling at strangers in
                        the street. It must be that, said they, for never before had Stuyvie kissed
                        them or brought them expensive candies or smiled at them as he was doing in
                        these wonderful days.
                    Stranger still, he never had been polite or agreeable to governesses before.
                        He always had called them frumps, or eats, or freaks, or something like
                        that. Surely something must be the matter with him, or he wouldn't
                        be so nice to Miss Emsdaie. Up to now he positively had refused to look at
                        her predecessors, much less to sit at the same table with them. He said they
                        took away his appetite.
                    The twins adored Miss Emsdale.
                    "We love you because you are so awfuly good," they were
                        wont to say. "And so beautiful," they invariably added, as
                        if it were not quite the proper thing to say.
                    It was obvious to Miss Emsdale that Stuyvesant endorsed the supplemental
                        tribute of the twins. He made it very plain to the new governess that he
                        thought more of her beauty than he did of her goodness. He ogled her in a
                        manner which, for want of a better expression, may be described as
                        possessive. Instead of being complimented by his surreptitious admiration,
                        she was distinctly annoyed. She disliked him intensely.
                    He was twenty-five. There were bags under his eyes. More than this need not
                        be said in describing him, unless one is interested in the tiny black
                        moustache that looked as though it might have been pasted, with great
                        precision, in the centre of his long upper lip, directly beneath  the spreading nostrils of a broad and far from
                        aristocratic nose. His lips were thick and coarse, his chin a trifle
                        undershot. Physically, he was a well setup fellow, tall and powerful.
                    For reasons best known to himself, and approved by his parents, he affected a
                        distinctly English manner of speech. In that particular, he frequently
                        out-Englished the English themselves.
                    As for Miss Emsdale, she was a long time going to sleep. The encounter with
                        the scion of the house had left her in a disturbed frame of mind. She laid
                        awake for hours wondering what the morrow would produce for her. Dismissal,
                        no doubt, and with it a stinging rebuke for what Mrs. Smith-Parvis would
                        consider herself justified in characterizing as unpardonable misconduct in
                        one employed to teach innocent and impressionable young girls. Mingled with
                        these dire thoughts were occasional thrills of delight. They were, however,
                        of short duration and had to do with a pair of strong arms and a gentle,
                        laughing voice.
                    In addition to these shifting fears and thrills, there were even more
                        disquieting sensations growing out of the unwelcome attentions of
                        Smith-Parvis, Junior. They were, so to speak, getting on her nerves. And now
                        he had not only expressed himself in words, but had actually threatened her.
                        There could be no mistake about that.
                    Her heart was heavy. She did not want to lose her position. The monthly
                        checks she received from Mrs. Smith-Parvis meant a great deal to her. At
                        least half of her pay went to England, and sometimes more than half. A
                        friendly solicitor in London obtained the 
                        money on these drafts and forwarded it, without fee, to the sick young
                        brother who would never walk again, the adored young brother who had fallen
                        prey to the most cruel of all enemies: infantile paralysis.
                    Jane Thorne was the only daughter of the Earl of Wexham, who shot himself in
                        London when the girl was but twelve years old. He left a penniless widow and
                        two children. Wexham Manor, with all its fields and forests, had been
                        sacrified beforehand by the reckless, ill advised nobleman. The police found
                        a half-crovn in his pocket when they took charge of the body. Is was the
                        last of a once imposing fortune. The widow and children subsisted on the
                        charity of a niggardly relative. With the death of the former, aften ten
                        unhappy years as a dependent, Jane resolutely refused to accept help from
                        the obnoxious relative. She set out to earn a living for herself and the
                        crippled boy. We find her, after two years of struggle and privation,
                        installed as Miss Emsdale in the Smith-Parvis mansion, earning one hundred
                        dollars a month.
                    It is safe to say that if the Smith-Parvises had known that she was the
                        daughter of an Earl, and that her brother was an Earl, there would have been
                        great rejoicing among them; for it isn't everybody who can boast an
                        Earl's daughter as governess.
                    One night in each week she was free to do as she pleased. It was, in plain
                        words, her night out. She invariably spent it with the Marchioness and the
                        coterie of unmasked spirits from lands across the seas.
                    What was she to say to Mrs. Smith-Parvis if called upon to account for her
                        unconventional return of the night before? How could she explain? Her lips
                        were  closed by the seal of honour so far as
                        the meetings above "Deborah's" were concerned. A
                        law unwritten but steadfastly observed by every member of that remarkable,
                        heterogeneous court, made it impossible for her to divulge her whereabouts
                        or actions on this and other agreeable "nights out." No
                        man or woman in that company would have violated, even under the gravest
                        pressure, the compact under which so many well-preserved secrets were
                        rendered secure from exposure.
                    Stuyvesant, in his rancour, would draw an ugly picture of her midnight
                        adventure. He would, no doubt, feel inspired to add a few conclusions of his
                        own. Her word, opposed to his, would have no effect on the verdict of the
                        indulgent mother. She would stand accused and convicted of conduct
                        unbecoming a governess! For, after all, Thomas Trotter was a chauffeur, and
                        she couldn't make anything nobler out of him without saying that he
                        wasn't Thomas Trotter at all.
                    She arose the next morning with a splitting headache, and the fear of
                        Stuyvesant in her soul.
                    He was waiting for her in the hall below. The twins were accorded an
                        unusually affectionate greeting by their big brother. He went so far as to
                        implant a random kiss on the features of each of the
                        "brats," as he called them in secret. Then he roughly
                        shoved them ahead into the breakfast-room.
                    Fastening his gaze upon the pale, unsmiling face of Miss Emsdale, he
                        whispered:
                    "Don't worry, my dear. Mum's the word."
                    He winked significantly. Revolted, she drew herself up and hurried after the
                        children, unpleasantly conscious  of the leer
                        of admiration that rested upon her from behind.
                    He was very gay at breakfast.
                    "Mum's the word," he repeated in an undertone, as
                        he drew back her chair at the conclusion of the meal. His lips were close to
                        her ear, his hot breath on her cheek, as he bent forward to utter this
                        reassuring remark.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    MR. THOMAS TROTTER HEARS SOMETHING TO HIS ADVANTAGE
                    TWO days later Thomas Trotter turned up at the old book shop of J. Bramble,
                        in Lexington Avenue.
                    "Well," he said, as he took his pipe out of his pocket and
                        began to stuff tobacco into it, "I've got the
                        sack."
                    "Got the sack?" exclaimed Mr. Bramble, blinking through his
                        horn-rimmed spectacles. "You can't be serious."
                    "It's the gospel truth," affirmed Mr. Trotter,
                        depositing his long, graceful body in a rocking chair facing the sheet-iron
                        stove at the back of the shop. "Got my walking papers last night,
                        Bramby."
                    "What's wrong? I thought you were a fixture on the job.
                        What have you been up to?"
                    "I'm blessed if I know," said the young man,
                        shaking his head slowly. "Kicked out without notice,
                        that's all I know about it. Two weeks' pay handed me; and
                        a simple statement that he was putting some one on in my place
                        today."
                    "Not even a reference?"
                    "He offered me a good one," said Trotter ironically.
                    "Said he would give me the best send-off a chauffeur ever had. I
                        told him I couldn't accept a reference and a discharge from the
                        same employer."
                    "Rather foolish, don't you think?"
                    
                    "That's just what he said. I said I'd rather have
                        an explanation than a reference, under the circumstances."
                    "Um! What did he say to that?"
                    "Said I'd better take what he was willing to
                        give."
                    Mr. Bramble drew up a chair and sat down. He was a small, sharp-featured man
                        of sixty, bookish from head to foot.
                    "Well, well," he mused sympathetically. "Too bad,
                        too bad, my boy. Still, you ought to thank goodness it comes at a time when
                        the streets are in the shape they're in now. Almost impossible to
                        get about with an automobile in all this snow, isn't it? Rather a
                        good time to be discharged, I should say."
                    "Oh, I say, that is optimism. 'Pon my soul, I believe
                        you'd find something cheerful about going to hell," broke
                        in Trotter, grinning.
                    "Best way I know of to escape blizzards and snowdrifts,"
                        said Mr. Bramble, brightly.
                    The front door opened. A cold wind blew the length of the book-littered room.
                    "This Bramble's?" piped a thin voice.
                    "Yes. Come in and shut the door."
                    An even smaller and older man than himself obeyed the command. He wore the
                        cap of a district messenger boy.
                    "Mr. J. Bramble here?" he quaked, advancing.
                    "Yes. What is it? A telegram?" demanded the owner of the
                        shop, in some excitement.
                    "I should say not. Wires down everywheres. Gee, that fire looks
                        good. I gotta letter for you, Mr. Bramble." He drew off his red
                        mittens and produced  from the pocket of his
                        thin overcoat, an envelope and receipt book. "Sign here,"
                        he said, pointing.
                    Mr. Bramble signed and then studied the handwriting on the envelope, his lips
                        pursed, one eye speculatively cocked.
                    "I've never seen the writing before. Must be a new
                        one," he reflected aloud, and sighed. "Poor
                        things!"
                    "That establishes the writer as a woman," said Trotter,
                        removing his pipe. "Otherwise you would have said 'poor
                        devils.' Now what do you mean by trifling with the women, you old
                        rogue?" The loss of his position did not appear to have affected
                        the nonchalant disposition of the good-looking Mr. Trotter.
                    "God bless my soul," said Mr. Bramble, staring hard at the
                        envelope," I don't believe it is from one of them, after
                        all. By 'one of them,' my lad, I mean the poor gentlewomen
                        who find themselves obliged to sell their books in order to obtain food and
                        clothing. They always write before they call, you see. Saves 'em
                        not only trouble but humiliation. The other kind simply burst in with a
                        parcel of rubbish and ask how much I'll give for the lot. But this,
                        Well, well, I wonder who it can be from? Doesn't seem like the sort
                        of writing "
                    "Why don't you open it and see?" suggested his
                        visitor.
                    "A good idea," said Mr. Bramble; "a very clever
                        thought. There is a way to find out, isn't there?" His
                        gaze fell upon the aged messenger, who warmed his bony hands at the stove.
                        He paused, the tip of his forefinger inserted under the flap. " Sit
                        down and  warm yourself, my friend,"
                        he said. "Get your long legs out of the way, Tom, and make room for
                        him. That's right! Must be pretty rough going outside for an old
                        codger like you."
                    The messenger "boy" sat down. "Yes, sir, it sure
                        is. Takes 'em forever in this 'ere town to clean the snow
                        off'n the streets. 'Twasn't that way in my
                        day."
                    "What do you mean by your 'day'?"
                    "Haven't you ever heard about me?" demanded the
                        old man, eyeing Mr. Bramble with interest.
                    "Can't say that I have."
                    "Well, can you beat that? There's a big, long street named
                        after me way down town. My name is Canal, Jotham W. Canal." He
                        winked and showed his toothless gums in an amiable grin. "I used to
                        be purty close to old Boss Tweed; kind of a lieutenant, you might say.
                        Things were so hot in the old town in those days that we used to charge a
                        nickel apiece for snowballs. Five cents apiece, right off the griddle.
                        That's how hot it was in my day."
                    "My word!" exclaimed Mr. Bramble.
                    "He's spooffing you," said young Mr. Trotter.
                    "My God," groaned the messenger, "if I'd
                        only knowed you was English I'd have saved my breath. Well, I guess
                        I'll be on my way. Is there an answer, Mr. Bramble?"
                    "Um aw I quite forgot the " He tore open the envelope and
                        held the missive to the light. "'Pon my soul!" he
                        cried, after reading the first few lines and then jumping ahead to the
                        signature. "This is most extraordinary." He was plainly
                        agitated as he felt in  his pocket for a coin.
                        "No answer, that is to say, none at present. Ahem! That's
                        all, boy. Good-bye."
                    Mr. Canal shuffled out of the shop, and out of this narrative as well.
                    "This will interest you," said Mr. Bramble, lowering his
                        voice as he edged his chair closer to the young man.
                    "It is from Lady Jane Thorne I should say, Miss Emsdale. Bless my
                        soul!"
                    Mr. Trotter's British complacency was disturbed.
                    He abandoned his careless sprawl in the chair and sat up very abruptly.
                    "What's that? From Lady Jane? Don't tell me
                        it's anything serious. One would think she was on her deathbed,
                        judging by the face you're 
                    "Read it for yourself," said the other, thrusting the
                        letter into Trotter's hand. "It explains everything, the
                        whole blooming business. Read it aloud. Don't be uneasy,"
                        he added, noting the young man's glance toward the door.
                        "No customers on a day like this. Some one may drop in to get warm,
                        but aha, I see you are interested."
                    An angry flush darkened Trotter's face as his eyes ran down the
                        page. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "'Dear Mr. Bramble:
                                    
                                    (she wrote) I am sending this to you by special messenger,
                                        hoping it may reach you before Mr. Trotter drops in. He has
                                        told me that he spends a good deal of his spare time in your
                                        dear old shop, browsing among the books. In the light of
                                        what may already have happened, I am quite sure you will see
                                        him today. I feel that I may write freely to you,  for you are his friend and
                                        mine, and you will understand. I am greatly distressed.
                                        Yesterday I was informed that he is to be summarily
                                        dismissed by Mr. Carpenter. I prefer not to reveal the
                                        source of information. All I may say is that I am, in a way,
                                        responsible for his misfortune. If the blow has fallen, he
                                        is doubtless perplexed and puzzled, and, I fear, very
                                        unhappy. Influence has been brought to bear upon Mr.
                                        Carpenter, who, you may not be by way of knowing, is a close
                                        personal friend of the people in whose home I am employed.
                                        Indeed, notwithstanding the difference in their ages, I may
                                        say that he is especially the friend of young Mr. S-P. Mr.
                                        Trotter probably knows something about the nature of this
                                        friendship, having been kept out till all hours of the
                                        morning in his capacity as chauffeur. My object in writing
                                        to you is two-fold: first, to ask you to prevail upon him to
                                        act with discretion for the present, at least, as I have
                                        reason to believe that there may be an attempt to carry out
                                        a threat to "run him out of town";
                                        secondly, to advise him that I shall stop at your place at
                                        five o'clock this afternoon in quest of a little
                                        book that now is out of print. Please explain to him also
                                        that my uncertainty as to where a letter would reach him
                                        under these new conditions accounts for this message to you.
                                        Sincerely your friend.
                                    
                                        "JANE EMSDALE.'"
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "Read it again, slowly," said Mr. Bramble, blinking harder
                        than ever.
                    "What time is it now?" demanded Trotter, thrusting the
                        letter into his own pocket. A quick glance at the watch on his wrist brought
                        a groan of dismay from  his lips.
                        "Good Lord! A few minutes past ten. Seven hours! Hold on! I can
                        almost see the words on your lips. I'll be discreet, so
                        don't begin prevailing, there's a good chap.
                        There's nothing to be said or done till I see her. But, seven
                        hours!"
                    "Stop here and have a bite of lunch with me," said Mr.
                        Bramble, soothingly.
                    "Nothing could be more discreet than that," said Trotter,
                        getting up to pace the floor. He was frowning.
                    "It's quite cosy in our little dining-room upstairs. If you
                        prefer, I'll ask Mirabeau to clear out and let us have the place to
                        ourselves while "
                    "Not at all. I'll stop with you, but I will not have poor
                        old Mirabeau evicted. We will show the letter to him. He is a Frenchman and
                        he can read between the lines far better than either of us."
                    At twelve-thirty, Mr. Bramble stuck a long-used card in the front door and
                        locked it from the inside. The world was informed, in bold type, that he had
                        gone to lunch and would not return until one-thirty.
                    In the rear of the floor above the book-shop were the meagrely furnished
                        bedrooms and kitchen shared by J. Bramble and Pierre Mirabeau, clock-maker
                        and repairer. The kitchen was more than a kitchen. It was also a
                        dining-room, a sitting-room and a scullery, and it was as clean and as neat
                        as the proverbial pin. At the front was the work-shop of M. Mirabeau, filled
                        with clocks of all sizes, shapes and ages. Back of this, as a sort of buffer
                        between the quiet bedrooms and the busy resting-place of a hundred sleepless
                        chimes, was located the combination store-room, utilized by both merchants:
                             a musty, dingy place crowded with
                        intellectual rubbish and a lapse of Time.
                    Mirabeau, in response to a shout from the fat Irishwoman who came in by the
                        day to cook, wash and clean up for the tenants, strode briskly into the
                        kitchen, drying his hands on a towel. He was a tall, spare old man with
                        uncommonly bright eyes and a long grey beard.
                    His joy on beholding the young guest at their board was surpassed only by the
                        dejection communicated to his sensitive understanding by the dismal
                        expression on the faces of J. Bramble and Thomas Trotter.
                    He broke off in the middle of a sentence, and, still grasping the hand of the
                        guest, allowed his gaze to dart from one to the other.
                    "Mon dieu!" he exclaimed, swiftly altering his tone to one
                        of the deepest concern. "What has happened? Has some one died?
                        Don't tell me it is your grandfather, my boy. Don't tell
                        me that the old villain has died at last and you will have to go back and
                        step into his misguided boots. Nothing else can "
                    "Worse than that," interrupted Trotter, smiling.
                        "I've lost my situation."
                    M. Mirabeau heaved a sigh of relief. "Ah! My heart beats again.
                        Still," with a vastly different sigh, "he cannot go on
                        living for ever. The time is bound to come when you "
                    An admonitory cough from Mr. Bramble, and a significant jerk of the head in
                        the direction of the kitchen-range, which was almost completely obscured by
                        the person of Mrs. O'Leary, caused M. Mirabeau to bring his remarks
                        to an abrupt close.
                    When he was twenty-five years younger, Monsieur 
                        Mirabeau, known to every one of consequence in Paris by his true and lawful
                        name, Count Andre Drouillard, as handsome and as high-bred a gentleman as
                        there was in all France, shot and killed, with all the necessary ceremony, a
                        prominent though bourgeoise general in the French Army, satisfactorily
                        ending a liaison in which the Countess and the aforesaid general were the
                        principal characters. Notwithstanding the fact that the duel had been fought
                        in the most approved French fashion, which almost invariably (except in case
                        of accident) provides for a few well-scattered shots and subsequent embraces
                        on the part of the uninjured adversaries, the general fell with a bullet
                        through his heart.
                    So great was the consternation of the Republic, and so unpardonable the
                        accuracy of the Count, that the authorities deemed it advisable to make an
                        example of the unfortunate nobleman. He was court-martialled by the army and
                        sentenced to be shot. On the eve of the execution he escaped and, with the
                        aid of friends, made his way into Switzerland, where he found refuge in the
                        home of a sequestered citizen who made antique clocks for a living. A price
                        was put upon his head, and so relentless were the efforts to apprehend him
                        that for months he did not dare show it outside the house of his protector.
                    He repaid the clockmaker with honest toil. In course of time he became an
                        expert repairer. With the confiscation of his estates in France, he resigned
                        himself to the inevitable. He became a man without a country. One morning
                        the newspapers in Paris announced the death, by suicide, of the long-sought
                             pariah. A few days later he was on his way
                        to the United States. His widow promptly re-married and, sad to relate, from
                        all reports lived happily ever afterwards.
                    The bourgeoise general, in his tomb in France, was not more completely dead
                        to the world than Count Andre Drouillard; on the other hand, no livelier,
                        sprightlier person ever lived than Pierre Mirabeau, repairer of clocks in
                        Lexington Avenue.
                    And so if you will look at it in quite the proper spirit, there is but one
                        really morbid note in the story of M. Mirabeau: the melancholy snuffing-out
                        of the poor general, and even that was brightened to some extent by the most
                        sumptuous military funeral in years.
                    "What do you make of it?" demanded Mr. Trotter,
                        half-an-hour later in the crowded work-shop of the clockmaker.
                    M. Mirabeau held Miss Emsdale's letter off at arm's length,
                        and squinted at it with great intensity, as if actually trying to read
                        between the lines.
                    "I have an opinion," said M. Mirabeau, frowning. Whereupon
                        he rendered his deductions into words, and of his two listeners Thomas
                        Trotter was the most dumb-founded.
                    "But I don't know the blooming bounder," he
                        exclaimed," except by sight and reputation. And I have reason to
                        know that Lady Jane loathes and detests him."
                    "Aha! There we have it! Why does she loathe and detest
                        him?" cried M. Mirabeau. "Because, my stupid friend, he
                        has been annoying her with his attentions. It is not an uncommon thing for
                        rich young men  to lose their heads over pretty
                        young maids and nurses, and even governesses."
                    "'Gad, if I thought he was annoying her I'd
                        I'd"
                    "There you go!" cried Mr. Bramble, nervously.
                        "Just as she feared. She knew what she was about when she asked me
                        to see that you did not do anything "
                    "Hang it all, Bramble, I'm not doing
                        anything, am I? I'm only saying things. Wait till
                        I begin to do things before you preach."
                    "That's just it!" cried Mr. Bramble. "You
                        invariably do things when you get that look in your eyes. I knew you long
                        before you knew yourself. You looked like that when you were five years old
                        and wanted to thump Bobby Morgan, who was thirteen. You "
                    M. Mirabeau interrupted. He had not been following the discussion. Leaning
                        forward, he eyed the young man keenly, even disconcertingly.
                    "What is back of all this? Admitting that young Mr. S.-P. is
                        enamoured of our lovely friend, what cause have you given him for jealousy?
                        Have you "
                    "Great Scot!" exclaimed Trotter, fairly bouncing off the
                        work-bench on which he sat with his long legs dangling. "Why, why,
                        if that's the way he feels toward her he must
                        have had a horrible jolt the other night. Good Lord!" A low whistle
                        followed the exclamation.
                    "Aha! Now we are getting at the cause. We already have the effect.
                        Out with it," cried M. Mirabeau, eager as a boy. His fine eyes
                        danced with excitement.
                    
                    "Now that I think of it, he saw me carry her up the steps the other
                        night after we'd all been to the Marchioness's. The night
                        of the blizzard, you know. Oh, I say! It's worse than I
                        thought." He looked blankly from one to the other of the two old
                        men.
                    "Carried her up the steps, eh? In your good strong arms, eh? And you
                        say 'now that I think of it.' Bless your
                        heart, you scalawag, you've been thinking of nothing else since it
                        happened. Ah!" sighed M. Mirabeau, "how wonderful it must
                        have been! The feel of her in your arms, and the breath of her on your
                        cheek, and Ah! It is a sad thing not to grow old. I am not growing old
                        despite my seventy years. If I could but grow old, and deaf, and feeble,
                        perhaps I should then be able to command the blood that thrills now with the
                        thought of But, alas! I shall never be so old as that! You say he witnessed
                        this remarkable ah exhibition of strength on your part?" He spoke
                        briskly again.
                    "The snow was a couple of feet deep, you see," explained
                        Trotter, who had turned a bright crimson. "Dreadful night,
                        wasn't it, Bramble?"
                    "I know what kind of a night it was," said the old
                        Frenchman, delightedly. "My warmest congratulations, my friend. She
                        is the loveliest, the noblest, the truest "
                    "I beg your pardon," interrupted Trotter, stiffly.
                        "It hasn't gone as far as all that."
                    "It has gone farther than you think," said M. Mirabeau
                        shrewdly. "And that is why you were discharged without "
                    "By gad! The worst of it all is, she will probably  get her walking papers too, if she
                        hasn't already got them," groaned the young man.
                        "Don't you see what has happened? The rotter has kicked up
                        a rumpus about that innocent, and if I do say it, gallant act of mine the
                        other night. They've had her on the carpet to explain. It looks bad
                        for her. They're the sort of people you can't explain
                        things to. What rotten luck! She needs the money and "
                    "Nothing of the kind has happened," said M. Mirabeau with
                        conviction. "It isn't in young Mr. S.-P.'s plans
                        to have her dismissed. That would be ah, what is it you say? spilling the
                        beans, eh? The instant she relinquishes her place in that household all hope
                        is lost, so far as he is concerned. He is shrewd enough to realize that, my
                        friend. You are the fly in his ointment. It is necessary to the success of
                        his enterprise to be well rid of you. He doesn't want to lose sight
                        of her, however. He "
                    "Run me out of town, eh?" grated Trotter, his thoughts
                        leaping back to the passage in Lady Jane's letter. "Easier
                        said than done, he'll find."
                    Mr. Bramble coughed. "Are we not going it rather blindly? All this
                        is pure speculation. The young man may not have a hand in the business at
                        all."
                    "He'll discover he's put his foot in it if he
                        tries any game on me," said Mr. Trotter.
                    M. Mirabeau beamed. "There is always a way to checkmate the villain
                        in the story. You see it exemplified in every melodrama on the stage and in
                        every shilling shocker. The hero, and you are our hero, puts him to rout by
                        marrying the heroine and living happily to a hale old age. What could be
                        more beautiful  than the marriage of Lady Jane
                        Thorne and Lord Eric Carruthers Ethelbert Temple? Mon dieu! It is"
                    "Rubbish!" exclaimed Mr. Trotter, suddenly looking down at
                        his foot, which was employed in the laudable but unnecessary act of removing
                        a tiny shaving from a crack in the floor. "Besides," he
                        went on an instant later, acknowledging an interval of mental
                        consideration," she wouldn't have me."
                    "It is my time to say 'rubbish,'" said
                        the old Frenchman. "Why wouldn't she have you?"
                    "Because she doesn't care for me in that way, if you must
                        know," blurted out the young man.
                    "Has she said so?"
                    "Of course not. She wouldn't be likely to volunteer the
                        information, would she?" with fine irony.
                    "Then how do you know she doesn't care for you in that
                        way?"
                    "Well, I I just simply know it, that's all."
                    "I see. You are the smartest man of all time if you know a
                        woman's heart without probing into it, or her mind without tricking
                        it. She permitted you to carry her up the steps, didn't
                        she?"
                    "She had to," said Trotter forcibly. "That
                        doesn't prove anything. And what's more, she objected to
                        being carried."
                    "Um! What did she say?"
                    "Said she didn't in the least mind getting her feet wet.
                        She'd have her boots off as soon as she got into the
                        house."
                    "Is that all?"
                    "She said she was awfully heavy, and Oh, there  is no use talking to me. I know how to take a hint. She just
                        didn't want me to er carry her, that's the long and the
                        short of it."
                    "Did she struggle violently?"
                    "What?"
                    "You heard me. Did she?"
                    "Certainly not. She gave in when I insisted. What else could she
                        do?" He whirled suddenly upon Mr. Bramble. "What are you
                        grinning about, Bramby?"
                    "Who's grinning?" demanded Mr. Bramble
                        indignantly, after the lapse of thirty or forty seconds.
                    "You were, confound you. I don't see
                        anything to laugh at in "
                    "My advice to you," broke in M. Mirabeau, still
                        detached," is to ask her."
                    "Ask her? Ask her what?"
                    "To marry you. As I was saying "
                    "My God!" gasped Trotter.
                    "That is my advice also," put in Mr. Bramble, fumbling with
                        his glasses and trying to suppress a smile, for fear it would be
                        misinterpreted. "I can't think of anything more admirable
                        than the union of the Temple and Wexham families in "
                    "But, good Lord," cried Trotter, "even if
                        she'd have me, how on earth could I take care of her on a
                        chauffeur's pay? And I'm not getting that now. I wish to
                        call your attention to the fact that your little hero has less than fifty
                        pounds, a good deal less than fifty, laid by for a rainy day."
                    "I've known a great many people who were married on rainy
                        days," said M. Mirabeau brightly, "and nothing unlucky
                        came of it."
                    
                    "Moreover, when your grandfather passes away," urged Mr.
                        Bramble," you will be a very rich man, provided, of course, he
                        doesn't remain obstinate and leave his money to some one else. In
                        any event, you would come in for sufficient to "
                    "You forget," began Trotter, gravely and with a dignity
                        that chilled the eager old man," that I will not go back to
                        England, nor will I claim anything that is in England,
                        until a certain injustice is rectified and I am set straight in the eyes of
                        the unbelievers."
                    Mr. Bramble cleared his throat. "Time will clear up everything, my
                        lad. God knows you never did the "
                    "God knows it all right enough, but God isn't a member of
                        the Brunswick Club, and His voice is never heard there in counsel. He may
                        lend a helping hand to those who are trying to clear my name, because they
                        believe in me, but the whole business is beginning to look pretty dark to
                        me."
                    "Ahem! What does Miss ah, Lady Jane think about the ah, unfortunate
                        affair?" stammered Mr. Bramble.
                    "She doesn't believe a damn' word of it,"
                        exploded Trotter, his face lighting up.
                    "Good!" cried M. Mirabeau. "Proof that she pities
                        you, and what more could you ask for a beginning? She believes you were
                        unjustly accused of cheating at cards, that there was a plot to ruin you and
                        to drive you out of the Army, and that your grandfather ought to be hung to
                        a lamp post for believing what she doesn't believe. Good! Now we
                        are on solid, substantial ground. What time is it, Bramble?"
                    
                    Mr. Bramble looked at a half-dozen clocks in succession.
                    "I'm blessed if I know," he said. "They
                        range from ten o'clock to half-past six."
                    "Just three hours and twenty-two minutes to wait," said
                        Thomas Trotter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE UNFAILING MEMORY
                    PRINCE WALDEMAR DE BOSKY, confronted by the prospect of continued cold
                        weather, decided to make an appeal to Mrs. Moses Jacobs, sometime Princess
                        Mariana di Pavesi. She had his overcoat, the precious one with the fur
                        collar and the leather lining, the one, indeed, that the friendly
                        safe-blower who lodged across the hall from him had left behind at the
                        outset of a journey up-state.
                    "More than likely," said the safe-blower, who was not only
                        surprised but gratified when the "little dago" came to
                        visit him in the Tombs," more than likely I shan't be
                        needin' an overcoat for the next twelve or fourteen year, kid, so
                        you ain't robbin' me, no, sir, not a bit of it. I make you
                        a present of it, with my compliments. Winter is comin' on
                        an' I can't seem to think of anybody it would fit
                        better'n it does you. You don't need to mention as
                        havin' received it from me. The feller who owned it before I did
                        might accidentally hear of it and but I guess it ain't likely, come
                        to think of it. To the best of my recollection, he lives 'way out
                        West somewhere, Toledo, I think, or maybe Omaha, and he's probably
                        got a new one by this time. Much obliged fer droppin' in here to
                        see me, kid. So long, and cut it out. Don't try to come any of that
                        thanks guff on me. You might as well be usin' that coat as the
                        moths. Besides, I owe you something for 
                        storage, don't forget that. I was in such a hurry the last time I
                        left town I didn't have a chance to explain. You didn't
                        know it then, and I guess if you had knowed it you wouldn't have
                        been so nice about lookin' out for my coat durin' the
                        summer, but I was makin' a mighty quick getaway. Thanks fer
                        stoppin' in to remind me I left the coat in your room that night. I
                        clean forgot it, I was in such a hurry. But lemme tell you one thing, kid,
                        I'll never ferget the way you c'n make that fiddle talk. I
                        don't know as you'd 'a' played fer me as
                        you used to once in awhile if you'd knowed I was what I am, but it
                        makes no difference now. I just loved hearin' you play. I used to
                        have a hard time holdin' in the tears. And say, kid, keep straight.
                        Keep on fiddlin'! So long! I may see you along about 1926 or 8. And
                        say, you needn't be ashamed to wear that coat. I didn't
                        steal it. It was a clean case of mistaken identity, if there ever was one.
                        It happened in a restaurant." He winked.
                    And that is how the little violinist came to be the possessor of an overcoat
                        with a sable collar and a soft leather lining.
                    He needed it now, not only when he ventured upon the chilly streets but when
                        he remained indoors. In truth, he found it much warmer walking the streets
                        than sitting in his fireless room, or even in going to bed.
                    It was a far cry from the dapper, dreamy-eyed courtier who kissed the chapped
                        knuckles of the Princess Mariana on Wednesday night to the shrinking,
                        pinched individual who threaded his way on Friday through the cramped lanes
                        that led to the rear of the pawn-shop presided over by Mrs. Jacobs.
                    
                    And an incredibly vast gulf lay between the Princess Mariana and the female
                        Shylock who peered at him over a glass show-case filled with material
                        pledges in the shape of watches, chains, rings, bracelets, and other gaudy
                        tributes left by a shifting constitutency.
                    "Well?" she demanded, fixing him with a cold, offensive
                        stare. "What do you want?"
                    He turned down the collar of his thin coat, and straightened his slight
                        figure in response to this unfriendly greeting.
                    "I came to see if you would allow me to take my overcoat for a few
                        days, until this cold spell is over, with the understanding "
                    "Nothing doing," said she curtly. "Six dollars due
                        on it."
                    "But I have not the six dollars, madam. Surely you may trust
                        me."
                    "Why didn't you bring your fiddle along? You could leave it
                        in place of the coat. Go and get it and I'll see what I can
                        do."
                    "I am to play tonight at the house of a Mr. Carpenter. He has heard
                        of me through our friend Mr. Trotter, his chauffeur. You know Mr. Trotter,
                        of course."
                    "Sure I know him, and I don't like him. He insulted me
                        once."
                    "Ah, but you do not understand him, madam. He is an Englishman and
                        he may have tried to be facetious or even pleasant in the way the English
                        "
                    "Say, don't you suppose I know when I'm insulted?
                        When a cheap guy like that comes in here with a customer of mine and tells
                        me I'm so damned mean they 
                        won't even let me into hell when I die, well, if you don't
                        call that an insult, I'd like to know what it is. Don't
                        talk to me about that bum!"
                    "Is that all he said?" involuntarily fell
                        from the lips of the violinist, as if, to his way of thinking, Mr.
                        Trotter's remark was an out-and-out compliment. "Surely
                        you have no desire to go to hell when you die."
                    "No, I haven't, but I don't want anybody coming in
                        here telling me to my face that there'd be a revolution down there
                        if I tried to get in. I've got as much right
                        there as anybody, I'd have him know. Cough up six or get out.
                        That's all I've got to say to you, my little
                        man."
                    "It is freezing cold in my room. I "
                    "Don't blame me for that. I don't make the
                        weather. And say, I'm busy. Cough up or clear out."
                    "You will not let me have it for a few days if I"
                    "Say, do you think I'm in business for my health? I
                        haven't that much use " she snapped her fingers
                        "for a fiddler anyhow. It's not a man's job.
                        That's what I think of long-haired guys like Beat it! I'm
                        busy."
                    With head erect the little violinist turned away. He was half way to the door
                        when she called out to him.
                    "Hey! Come back here! Now, see here, you little squirt, you
                        needn't go turning up your nose at me and acting like that.
                        I've got the goods on you and a lot more of those rummies up there.
                        I looked 'em over the  other night and
                        I said to myself, says I: 'Gee whiz, couldn't I start
                        something if I let out what I know about this gang!' Talk about
                        earthquakes! They'd Here! What are you doing? Get out from behind
                        this counter! I'll call a cop if you "
                    The pallid, impassioned face of Prince Waldemar de Bosky was close to hers;
                        his dark eyes were blazing not a foot from her nose.
                    "If I thought you were that kind of a snake I'd kill
                        you," he said quietly, levelly.
                    "Are are you threatening me?" sputtered Mrs. Jacobs, trying
                        in vain to look away from those compelling eyes. She could not believe her
                        senses.
                    "No. I am merely telling you what I would do if you were that kind
                        of a snake."
                    "See here, don't you get gay! Don't you forget who
                        you are addressing, young man. I am 
                    "I am addressing a second-hand junk dealer, madam. You are at home
                        now, not sitting in the big chair up at at you know where. Please bear that
                        in mind."
                    "I'll call some one from out front and have you chucked
                        into 
                    "Do you even think of violating the confidence we repose in
                        you'" he demanded. "The thought must have been in
                        your mind or you would not have uttered that remark a moment ago. You are
                        one of us, and we've treated you as a a queen. I want to know just
                        where you stand, Mrs. Jacobs."
                    "You can't come in here and bawl me out like this, you
                        little shrimp! I'll "
                    "Keep still! Now, listen to me. If I should go to  our friends and repeat what you have just
                        said, you would never see the inside of that room again. You would never
                        have the opportunity to exchange a word with a single person you have met
                        there. You would be stripped of the last vestige of glory that clings to
                        you. Oh, you may sneer! But down in your heart you love that bit of glory,
                        and you would curse yourself if you lost it."
                    "It's it's all poppy-cock, the whole silly
                        business," she blurted out. But it was not anger that caused her
                        voice to tremble.
                    "You know better than that," said he, coldly.
                    "I don't care a rap about all that foolishness up there. It
                        makes me sick," she muttered.
                    "You may lie to me but you cannot lie to yourself, madam. Under that
                        filthy, greasy skin of yours runs the blood that will not be denied.
                        Pawn-broker, miser, whatever you may be to the world, to yourself you are a
                        princess royal. God knows we all despise you. You have not a friend among
                        us. But we can no more overlook the fact that you are a princess of the
                        blood than we can ignore the light of day. The blood that is in you demands
                        its tribute. You have no control over the mysterious spark that fires your
                        blood. It burns in spite of all you may do to quench it. It is there to
                        stay. We despise you, even as you would despise us. Am I to carry your words
                        to those who exalt you despite your calling, despite your meanness, despite
                        all that is base and sordid in this rotten business of yours? Am I to let
                        them know that you are the only the only what is the name of the animal
                        I've heard Trotter mention? ah, I have it, the only  skunk in our precious little circle? Tell me,
                        madam, are you a skunk?"
                    Her face was brick red; she was having difficulty with her breathing. The
                        pale, white face of the little musician dazzled her in a most inexplicable
                        way. Never before had she felt just like this.
                    "Am la what?" she gasped, her eyes popping.
                    "It is an animal that has an odour which "
                    "Good God, you don't have to tell me what it is,"
                        she cried, but in suppressed tones. Her gaze swept the rear part of the
                        shop. "It's a good thing for you, young fellow, that
                        nobody heard you call me that name. Thank the good Lord, it isn't a
                        busy day here. If anybody had heard you, I'd have you skinned
                        alive."
                    "A profitless undertaking," he said, smiling without
                        mirth," but quite in your line, if reports are true. You are an
                        expert at skinning people, alive or dead. But we are digressing. Are you
                        going to turn against us?"
                    "I haven't said I was going to, have I?"
                    "Not in so many words."
                    "Well, then, what's all the fuss about? You come in here
                        and shoot off your mouth as if And say, who are you, anyhow? Tell me that!
                        No, wait a minute. Don't tell me. I'll tell myself. When a
                        man is kicked out of his own family because he'd sooner play a
                        fiddle than carry a sword, I don't think he's got any
                        right to come blatting to me about "
                    "The crulest monster the world has ever known, madam," he
                        interrupted, stiffening, "fiddled while Rome was burning. Fiddlers
                        are not always gentle. You may not have heard of one very small and
                        unimportant incident in my own life. It was I who fiddled, badly,  I must confess, while the Opera House in
                        Poltna was burning. A panic was averted. Not a life was lost. And when it
                        was all over some one remembered the fiddler who remained upon the stage and
                        finished the aria he was playing when the cry of fire went up from the
                        audience. Brave men, far braver men than he, rushed back through the smoke
                        and found him lying at the footlights, unconscious. But why waste words?
                        Good morning, madam. I shall not trouble you again about the overcoat. Be
                        good enough to remember that I have kissed your hand only because you are a
                        princess and not because you have lent me five dollars on the wretched
                        thing."
                    The angry light in his brown eyes gave way to the dreamy look once more. He
                        bowed stiffly and edged his way out from behind the counter into the clogged
                        area that lay between him and the distant doorway. Towering above him on all
                        sides were heaps of nondescript objects, classified under the generic name
                        of furniture. The proprietress of this sordid, ill-smelling crib stared
                        after him as he strode away, and into her eyes there stole a look of
                        apprehension.
                    She followed him to the front door, overtaking him as his hand was on the
                        latch.
                    "Hold on," she said, nervously glancing at the shifty-eyed,
                        cringing assistant who toiled not in vain, no one ever toiled in vain in the
                        establishment of M. Jacobs, Inc., behind a clump of chairs; "hold
                        on a second. I don't want you to say a word to to them about about all this. You are right, de Bosky. I I have not lost
                        all that once was mine. You understand, don't you?"
                    
                    He smiled. "Perfectly. You can never lose it, no matter how low you
                        may sink."
                    "Well," she went on, hesitatingly, "suppose we
                        forget it."
                    He eyed her for a moment in silence, shaking his head reflectively.
                        "It is most astonishing," he said at last.
                    "What's astonishing?" she demanded sharply.
                    "I was merely thinking of your perfect, your exquisite French,
                        madam!"
                    "French? Are you nutty? I've been talkin' to you
                        in English all the time."
                    He nodded his head slowly. "Perhaps that is why your French is so
                        astonishing," he said, and let it go at that.
                    "Look at me," she exclaimed, suddenly breaking into French
                        as she spread out her thick arms and surveyed with disgust as much of her
                        ample person as came within range of an obstructed vision, "just
                        look at me. No one on earth would take me for a princess,
                        would he? And yet that is just what I am. I think of
                        myself as a princess, and always will, de Bosky. I think of myself, of my
                        most unlovely, unregal self, as the superior of every other woman who treads
                        the streets of New York, all of these base born women. I cannot help it. I
                        cannot think of them as equals, not even the richest and the most arrogant
                        of them. You say it is the blood, but you are wrong. Some of these women
                        have a strain of royal blood in them a far-off, remote strain, of course,
                        but they do not know it. That's the point, my
                        friend. It is the knowing that makes us what we are. It
                        isn't the blood itself. If we were 
                        deprived of the power to think, we could have the blood of
                        every royal family in Europe in our veins, and that is all the good it would
                        do us. We think we are nobler, better than all the rest of
                        creation, and we would keep on thinking it if we slept in the gutter and
                        begged for a crust of bread. And the proof of all this is to be found in the
                        fact that the rest of creation will not allow us to forget. They think as we
                        do, in spite of themselves, and there you have the secret of the supremacy
                        we feel, in spite of everything."
                    Her brilliant, black eyes were flashing with something more than excitement.
                        The joy, the realization of power glowed in their depths, welling up from
                        fires that would never die. Waldemar de Bosky nodded his head in the most
                        matter-of-fact way. He was not enthralled. All this was very simple and
                        quite undebatable to him.
                    "I take it, therefore, that you retract all that you said about its
                        being poppycock," he said, turning up his coat collar and fastening
                        it close to his throat with a long and formidable looking safety pin.
                    "It may be poppycock," she said, "but we
                        can't help liking it not to save our lives."
                    "And I shall not have to kill you as if you were a snake,
                        eh?"
                    "Not on your life," said Mrs. Moses Jacobs in English,
                        opening the door for him.
                    He passed out into the cold and windy street and she went back to her dingy
                        nook at the end of the store, pausing on the way to inform an assistant that
                        she was not to be disturbed, no matter who came in to see her.
                    While she sat behind her glittering show-case and  gazed pensively at the ceiling of her ugly storehouse, Waldemar de Bosky
                        went shivering through the streets to his cold little backroom many blocks
                        away. While she was for the moment living in the dim but unforgotten past, a
                        kindly memory leading her out of the maze of other people's poverty
                        and her own avarice into broad marble halls and vaulted rooms, he was
                        thinking only of the bitter present with its foodless noon and of pockets
                        that were empty. While maudlin tears ran down her oily cheeks and spilled
                        aimlessly upon a greasy sweater with the spur of memory behind them, tears
                        wrought by the sharp winds of the street glistened in his squinting eyes.
                    Memory carried him back no farther than the week before and he was distressed
                        only by its exceeding frailty. He could not, for the life of him, remember
                        the address of J. Bramble, bookseller, a most exasperating lapse in view of
                        the fact that J. Bramble himself had urged him to come up some evening soon
                        and have dinner with him, and to bring his Stradivarius along if he
                        didn't mind. Mind? Why, he would have played his heart out for a
                        good square meal. The more he tried to remember J. Bramble's
                        address, the less he thought of the overcoat with the fur collar and the
                        soft leather lining. He couldn't eat that, you know.
                    In his bleak little room in the hall of the whistling winds, he took from its
                        case with cold-benumbed fingers the cherished violin. Presently, as he
                        played, the shivering flesh of him grew warm with the heat of an inward
                        fire; the stiff, red fingers became limp and pliable; the misty eyes grew
                        bright and feverish. Fire, the fires of love and genius and hope combined,
                        burnt  away the chill of despair; he was as
                        warm as toast!
                    And hours after the foodless noon had passed, he put the treasure back into
                        its case and wiped the sweat from his marble brow. Something flashed across
                        his mind. He shouted aloud as he caught at what the flash of memory
                        revealed.
                    "Lexington Avenue! Three hundred and something, Lexington Avenue! J.
                        Bramble, bookseller! Ha! Come! Come! Let us be off!"
                    He spoke to the violin as if it were a living companion. Grabbing up his hat
                        and mittens, he dashed out of the room and went clattering down the hall
                        with the black leather case clasped tightly under his arm.
                    It was a long, long walk to three hundred and something Lexington Avenue, but
                        in due time he arrived there and read the sign above the door. Ah, what a
                        great thing it is to have a good, unfailing memory!
                    And so it came to pass that Prince Waldemar de Bosky and Lady Jane Thorne met
                        at the door of J. Bramble, bookseller, at five of the clock, and entered the
                        shop together.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    THE FOUNDATION OF THE PLOT
                    MR. BRAMBLE had never been quite able to resign himself to a definitely
                        impersonal attitude toward Lord Eric Temple. He seemed to cling, despite
                        himself, to a privilege long since outlawed by time and circumstance and the
                        inevitable out growing of knickerbockers by the aforesaid Lord Eric. Back in
                        the good old days it had been his pleasant, and sometimes unpleasant, duty
                        to direct a very small Eric in matters not merely educational but of
                        deportment as well. In short, Eric, at the age of five, fell into the
                        capable, kindly and more or less resolute hands of a well-recommended tutor,
                        and that tutor was no other than J. Bramble.
                    At the age of twelve, the boy went off to school in a little high hat and an
                        Eton suit, and J. Bramble was at once, you might say, out of the frying pan
                        into the fire. In other words, he was promoted by his lordship, the
                        boy's grandfather, to the honourable though somewhat onerous
                        positions of secretary, librarian and cataloguer, all in one. He had been
                        able to teach Eric a great many things he didn't know, but there
                        was nothing he could impart to his lordship.
                    That irascible old gentleman knew everything. After thrice informing his
                        lordship that Sir Walter Scott was the author of Guy
                        Mannering, and being thrice informed  that
                        he was nothing of the sort, the desolate Mr. Bramble realized that he was no
                        longer a tutor, and that he ought to be rather thankful for it. It
                        exasperated him considerably, however, to have the authorship of Guy Mannering arbitrarily ascribed to three different
                        writers, on three separate occasions, when any schoolboy could have told the
                        old gentleman that Fielding and Sterne and Addison had no more to do with
                        the book than William Shakespeare himself. His lordship maintained that no
                        one could tell him anything about Scott; he had him on his
                        shelves and he had read him from A to Izzard. And he was rather severe with
                        Mr. Bramble for acccepting a position as librarian when he didn't
                        know any more than that about books.
                    And from this you may be able to derive some sort of an opinion concerning
                        the cantankerous, bull-headed old party (Bramble's appellation
                        behind the hand) who ruled Fenlew Hall, the place where Tom Trotter was
                        reared and afterwards disowned.
                    Also you may be able to account in a measure for Mr. J. Bramble's
                        attitude toward the tall young man, an attitude brought on no doubt by the
                        revival, or more properly speaking the survival, of an authority exercised
                        with rare futility but great satisfaction at a time when Eric was being
                        trained in the way he should go. If at times Mr. Bramble appears to be
                        mildly dictatorial, or gently critical, or sadly reproachful, you will
                        understand that it is habit with him, and not the captiousness of old age.
                        It was his custom to shake his head reprovingly, or to frown in a pained
                        sort of way, or to purse his lips, or even to verbally take Mr. Trotter  to task when that young man deviated, not
                        always accidentally, from certain rules of deportment laid down for him to
                        follow in his earliest efforts to be a "little gentleman."
                    For example, when the two of them, after a rather impatient half-hour,
                        observed Miss Emsdale step down from the trolley car at the corner above and
                        head for the doorway through which they were peering, Mr. Bramble
                        peremptorily said to Mr. Trotter:
                    "Go and brush your hair. You will find a brush at the back of the
                        shop. Look sharp, now. She will be here in a jiffy."
                    And you will perhaps understand why Mr. Trotter paid absolutely no attention
                        to him.
                    Miss Emsdale and the little violinist came in together. The latter's
                        teeth were chattering, his cheeks were blue with the cold.
                    "God bless my soul!" said Mr. Bramble, blinking at de
                        Bosky. Here was an unforeseen complication.
                    Miss Emsdale was resourceful. "I stopped in to inquire, Mr. Bramble,
                        this is Mr. Bramble, isn't it? if you have a copy
                        of "
                    "Please close the door, Trotter, there's a good
                        fellow," interrupted Mr. Bramble, frowning significantly at the
                        young man.
                    "It is closed," said Mr. Trotter,
                        tactlessly. He was lookingly intently, inquiringly into the blue eyes of
                        Miss Emsdale.
                    "I closed it as I came in," chattered de Bosky.
                    "Oh, did you?" said Mr. Bramble. "People always
                        leave it open. I am so in the habit of having people leave the door open
                        that I never notice when they  close it. I
                        ahem! Step right this way, please, Miss Ems ahem! I think we have just the
                        book you want."
                    "I am not in any haste, Mr. Bramble," said she, regarding
                        de Bosky with pitying eyes. "Let us all go back to the stove and
                        and " She hesitated, biting her lip. The poor chap undoubtedly was
                        sensitive. They always are.
                    "Good!" said Mr. Bramble eagerly. "And
                        we'll have some tea. Bless my soul, how fortunate! I always have it
                        at five o'clock. Trotter and I were just on the point of so glad
                        you happened in just at the right moment, Miss Emsdale. Ahem! And you too,
                        de Bosky. Most extraordinary. You may leave your pipe on that shelf,
                        Trotter. It smells dreadfully. No, no, I wouldn't even put it in my
                        pocket if I were you. Er ahem! You have met Mr. Trotter, haven't
                        you, Miss Emsdale?"
                    "You poor old boob," said Trotter, laying his arm over
                        Bramble's shoulder in the most affectionate way.
                        "Isn't he a boob, Miss Emsdale?"
                    "Not at all," said she severely. "He is a
                        dear."
                    "Bless my soul!" murmured Mr. Bramble, doing as well as
                        could be expected. He blessed it again before he could catch himself up.
                    "Sit here by the stove, Mr. de Bosky," said Miss Emsdale, a
                        moment later. "Just as close as you can get to it."
                    "I have but a moment to stay," said de Bosky, a wistful
                        look in his dark eyes.
                    "You'll have tea, de Bosky," said Mr. Bramble
                        firmly. "Is the water boiling, Trotter?"
                    
                    A few minutes later, warmed by the cup of tea and a second slice of toast, de
                        Bosky turned to Trotter.
                    "Thanks again, my dear fellow, for speaking to your employer about
                        my playing. This little affair tonight may be the beginning of an era of
                        good fortune for ine. I shall never forget your interest "
                    "Oh, that's off," said Trotter carelessly.
                    "Off? You mean?" cried de Bosky.
                    "I'm fired, and he has gone to Atlantic City for the
                        week-end."
                    "He he isn't going to have his party in the private
                        dining-room at, you said it was to be a private dining-room, didn't
                        you, with a few choice spirits "
                    "He has gone to Atlantic City with a few choice spirits,"
                        said Trotter, and then stared hard at the musician's face.
                        "Oh, by Jove! I'm sorry," he cried, struck by the
                        look of dismay, almost of desperation, in de Bosky's eyes.
                        "I didn't realize it meant so much to"
                    "It is really of no consequence," said de Bosky, lifting
                        his chin once more and straightening his back. The tea-cup rattled ominously
                        in the saucer he was clutching with tense fingers.
                    "Never mind," said Mr. Bramble, anticipating a crash and
                        inspired by the kindliest of motives; "between us we've
                        smashed half a dozen of them, so don't feel the least bit
                        uncomfortable if you do drop "
                    "What are you talking about, Bramby?" demanded Trotter,
                        scowling at the unfortunate bookseller. "Have some more tea, de
                        Bosky. Hand up your cup. Little hot water, eh?"
                    Mr. Bramble was perspiring. Any one with half an  eye could see that it was of consequence to de Bosky.
                        The old bookseller's heart was very tender.
                    "Don't drink too much of it," he warned, his face
                        suddenly beaming. "You'll spoil your appetite for
                        dinner." To the others: "Mr. de Bosky honours my humble
                        board with his presence this evening. The finest porterhouse steak in New
                        York Eh, what?"
                    "It is I," came a crisp voice from the bottom of the narrow
                        stairway that led up to the living-quarters above. Monsieur Mirabeau, his
                        whiskers neatly brushed and twisted to a point, his velvet lounging jacket
                        adorned with a smart little boutonniere, his shoes polished till they
                        glistened, approached the circle and, bending his gaunt frame with gallant
                        disdain for the crick in his back, kissed the hand of the young lady.
                        "I observed your approach, my dear Miss Emsdale. We have been
                        expecting you for ages. Indeed, it has been the longest afternoon that any
                        of us has ever experienced."
                    Mr. Bramble frowned. "Ahem!" he coughed.
                    "I am sorry if I have intruded," began de Bosky, starting
                        to arise.
                    "Sit still," said Thomas Trotter. He glanced at Miss
                        Emsdale. "You're not in the way, old chap."
                    "You mentioned a book, Miss Emsdale," murmured Mr. Bramble.
                        "When you came in, you'll remember."
                    She looked searchingly into Trotter's eyes, and finding her answer
                        there, remarked:
                    "Ample time for that, Mr. Bramble. Mr. de Bosky is my good friend.
                        And as for dear M. Mirabeau, ah, what shall I say of him?" She
                        smiled divinely upon the grey old Frenchman.
                    
                    "I commend your modesty," said M. Mirabeau. "It
                        prevents your saying what every one knows, that I am your adorer!"
                    Tom Trotter was pacing the floor. He stopped in front of her, a scowl on his
                        handsome face.
                    "Now, tell us just what the infernal dog said to jou," he
                        said.
                    She started. "You you have already heard something?" she
                        cried, wonderingly.
                    "Ah, what did I tell you?" cried M. Mirabeau triumphantly,
                        glancing first at Trotter and then at Bramble. "He is in love with her, and this is what comes of it. He resorts to
                        "
                    "Is this magic?" she exclaimed.
                    "Not a bit of it," said Trotter. "We've
                        been putting two and two together, the three of us. Begin at the
                        beginning," he went on, encouragingly. "Don't
                        hold back a syllable of it."
                    "You must promise to be governed by my advice," she warned
                        him. "You must be careful, oh, so verj careful."
                    "He will be good at any rate," said Mr. Bramble, fixing the
                        young man with a look. Trotter's face went crimson.
                    "Ahem!" came guardedly from M. Mirabeau. "Proceed,
                        my dear. We are most impatient."
                    The old Frenchman's deductions were not far from right. Young Mr.
                        Smith-Paryis, unaccustomed to opposition and believing himself to be
                        entitled to every-thing he set his heart on having, being by nature
                        predatory, sustained an incredible shock when the pretty and desirable
                        governess failed utterly to come up to expectations.  Not only did she fail to come up to expectations but she took
                        the wind completely out of his sails, leaving him adrift in a void so
                        strange and unusual that it was hours before he got his bearings again. Some
                        of the things she said to him got under a skin so thick and unsensitive that
                        nothing had ever been sharp enough to penetrate it before.
                    The smarting of the pain from these surprising jabs at his egotism put him
                        into a state of fury that knew no bounds. He went so far as to accuse her of
                        deliberately trying to be a lady, a most ridiculous assumption that
                        didn't fool him for an instant. She couldn't come that
                        sort of thing with him!. The sooner she got off her high-horse the better
                        off she'd be. It had never entered the head of Smith-Parvis Jr.
                        that a wage-earning woman could be a lady, any more than a wage-earning man
                        could be a gentleman.
                    The spirited encounter took place on the afternoon following her midnight
                        adventure with Thomas Trotter. Stuyvesant lay in wait for her when she went
                        out at five o'clock for her daily walk in the Park. Overtaking her
                        in one of the narrow, remote little paths, he suggested that they cross over
                        to Bustanoby's and have tea and a bite of something sweet. He was
                        quite out of breath. She had given him a long chase, this long-limbed girl
                        with her free English stride.
                    "It's a nice quiet place," he said, "and
                        we won't see a soul we know."
                    Primed by assurance, he had the hardihood to grasp her arm with a sort of
                        possessive familiarity. Whereupon, according to the narrator, he sustained
                        his first  disheartening shock. She jerked her
                        arm away and faced him with blazing eyes.
                    "Don't do that!" she said. "What do you
                        mean by following me like this?"
                    "Oh, come now," he exclaimed blankly;
                        "don't be so damned uppish. I didn't sleep a wink
                        last night, thinking about you. You "
                    "Nor did I sleep a wink, Mr. Smith-Parvis, thinking about
                        you," she retorted, looking straight into his eyes. "I am
                        afraid you don't know me as well as you think you do. Will you be
                        good enough to permit me to continue my walk unmolested?"
                    He laughed in her face. "Out here to meet the pretty chauffeur, are
                        you? I thought so. Well, I'll stick around and make the crowd. Is
                        he likely to pop up out of the bushes and try to bite me, my dear? Better
                        give him the signal to lay low, unless you want to see him nicely
                        booted."
                    ("My God!" fell from Thomas Trotter's compressed
                        lips.)
                    "Then I made a grievous mistake," she explained to the
                        quartette. "It is all my fault, Mr. Trotter. I brought disaster
                        upon you when I only intended to sound your praises. I told him that nothing
                        could suit me better than to have you pop up out of the bushes, just for the
                        pleasure it would give me to see him run for home as fast as he could go. It
                        made him furious."
                    Smith-Parvis Jr. proceeded to give her "what for," to use
                        his own words. In sheer amazement, she listened to his vile insinuations.
                        She was speechless.
                    "And here am I," he had said, toward the end of  the indictment, "a gentleman, born
                        and bred, offering you what this scurvy bounder cannot possibly give you,
                        and you pretend to turn up your nose at me. I am gentleman enough to
                        overlook all that has transpired between you and that loafer, and I am
                        gentleman enough to keep my mouth shut at home, where a word from me would
                        pack you off in two seconds. And I'd like to see you get another
                        fat job in New York after that. You ought to be jolly grateful to
                        me."
                    "If I am the sort of person you say I am," she had replied,
                        trembling with fury, "how can you justify your conscience in
                        letting me remain for a second longer in charge of your little
                        sisters?"
                    "What the devil do I care about them? I'm only thinking of
                        you. I'm mad about you, can't you understand? And
                        I'd like to know what conscience has to do with that."
                    Then he had coolly, deliberately, announced his plan of action to her.
                    "You are to stay on at the house as long as you like, getting your
                        nice little pay check every month, and something from me besides. Ah,
                        I'm no piker! Leave it all to me. As for this friend of yours, he
                        has to go. He'll be out of a job tomorrow. I know Carpenter. He
                        will do anything I ask. He'll have to, confound him. I've
                        got him where he can't even squeak. And what's more, if
                        this Trotter is not out of New York inside of three days, I'll land
                        him in jail. Oh, don't think I can't do it, my dear.
                        There's a way to get these renegade foreigners, every one of
                        'em, so you'd better keep clear of him if you
                        don't want to be mixed up in the business. I am doing all this for
                        your  own good. Some day you'll thank
                        me. You are the first girl I've ever really loved, and I I just
                        can't stand by and let you go to the devil with my eyes shut. I am
                        going to save you, whether you like it or not. I am going to do the right
                        thing by you, and you will never regret chucking this rotter for me. We will
                        have to be a little careful at home, that's all. It would never do
                        to let the old folks see that I am more than ordinarily interested in you,
                        or you in me. Once, when I was a good deal younger and didn't have
                        much sense, I spoiled a but you wouldn't care to hear about
                        it."
                    She declared to them that she would never forget the significant grin he
                        permitted himself in addition to the wink.
                    "The dog!" grated Thomas Trotter, his knuckles white.
                    M. Mirabeau straightened himself to his full height, and a fine figure of a
                        man was he!
                    "Mr. Trotter," he said, with grave dignity, "it
                        will afford me the greatest pleasure and honour to represent you in this
                        crisis. Pray command me. No doubt the scoundrel will refuse to meet you, but
                        at any rate a challenge may be "
                    Miss Emsdale broke in quickly. "Don't, for
                        heaven's sake, dear M. Mirabeau, don't put such notions
                        into his head! It is bad enough as it is. I beg of you "
                    "Besides," said Mr. Bramble, "one doesn't
                        fight duels in this country, any more than one does in England.
                        It's quite against the law."
                    "I sha'n't need any one to represent me when it
                        comes to punching his head," said Mr. Trotter.
                    
                    "It's against the law, strictly speaking, to punch a
                        person's head," began Mr. Bramble nervously.
                    "But it's not against the law, confound you, Bramby, to
                        provide a legal excuse for going to jail, is it? He says he's going
                        to put me there. Well, I intend to make it legal and "
                    "Oh, goodness!" cried Miss Emsdale, in dismay.
                    "And I'm not going to jail for nothing, you can stake your
                        life on that."
                    "Do you think, Mr. Trotter, that it will add to my happiness if you
                        are lodged in jail on my account?" said she.
                        "Haven't I done you sufficient injury "
                    "Now, you are not to talk like that," he interrupted,
                        reddening.
                    "But I shall talk like that," she said
                        firmly. "I have not come here to ask you to take up my battles for
                        me but to warn you of danger. Please do not interrupt me. I know you would
                        enjoy it, and all that sort of thing, but it isn't to be
                        considered. Hear me out."
                    She went on with her story. Young Mr. Smith-Parvis, still contending that he
                        was a gentleman and a friend as well as an abject adorer, made it very plain
                        to her that he would stand no foolishness. He told her precisely what he
                        would do unless she eased up a bit and acted like a good, sensible girl. He
                        would have her dismissed without character and he would see to it that no
                        respectable house would be open to her after she left the service of the
                        Smith-Parvises.
                    "But couldn't you put the true situation before his parents
                        and tell 'em what sort of a rotten bounder he is?"
                        demanded Trotter.
                    
                    "You do not know them, Mr. Trotter," she said forlornly.
                    "And they'd kick you out without giving you a chance to
                        prove to them that he is a filthy liar and "
                    "Just as Mr. Carpenter kicked you out," she said.
                    "By gad, I I wouldn't stay in their house another day if I
                        were you," he exclaimed wrathfully. "I'd quit so
                        quickly they wouldn't have time to "
                    "And then what?" she asked bitterly. "Am I so rich
                        and independent as all that? You forget that I must have a
                        'character,' Mr. Trotter. That, you see, would be denied
                        me. I could not obtain employment. Even Mrs. Sparflight would be powerless
                        to help me after the character they would give me."
                    "But, good Lord, you you're not going to stay on in the
                        house with that da that nasty brute, are you?" he cried, aghast.
                    "I must have time to think, Mr. Trotter," she said quietly.
                        "Now, don't say anything more, please! I shall take good
                        care of myself, never fear. My woes are small compared to yours, I am
                        afraid. The next morning after our little scene in the park, he came down to
                        breakfast, smiling and triumphant. He said he had news for me. Mr. Carpenter
                        was to dismiss you that morning, but had agreed not to prefer charges
                        against you, at least, not for the present." She paused to moisten
                        her lips. There was a harassed look in her eyes.
                    "Charges?" said Trotter, after a moment. The other men
                        leaned forward, fresh interest in their faces.
                    "Did you say charges, Miss Emsdale?" asked Mr. Bramble,
                        putting his hand to his ear.
                    
                    "He told me that Mr. Carpenter was at first determined to turn you
                        over to the police, but that he had begged him to give you a chance. He he
                        says that Mr. Carpenter has had a private detective watching you for a
                        fortnight, and and oh, I cannot say it!"
                    "Go on," said Trotter harshly; "say it!"
                    "Well, of course, I know and you understand it is simply part of his
                        outrageous plan, but he says your late employer has positive proof that you
                        took that you took some marked bank notes out of his overcoat pocket a few
                        days ago. He had been missing money and had provided himself with marked
                        "
                    Trotter leaped to his feet with a cry of rage.
                    "Sit down!" commanded Mr. Bramble. "Sit down!
                        Where are you going?"
                    "Great God! Do you suppose I can sit still and let him get away with
                        anything like that?" roared Trotter. "I'm going
                        to jam those words down Carpenter's craven throat. I'm
                        "
                    "You forget he is in Atlantic City," said de Bosky, as if
                        suddenly coming out of a dream.
                    "Oh, Lord!" groaned Trotter, very white in the face.
                    There were tears in Miss Emsdale's eyes. "They he means to
                        drive you out of town," she murmured brokenly.
                    "Fine chance of that!" cried Trotter violently.
                    "Let us be calm," said M. Mirabeau, gently taking the young
                        man's arm and leading him back to the box on which he had been
                        sitting. "You must not play into their hands, and that is what you
                        would be doing if you went to him in a rage. As long as you remain  passive, nothing will come of all this. If you
                        show your teeth, they will stop at nothing. Take my word for it, Trotter,
                        before many hours have passed you will be interviewed by a detective, a
                        genuine detective, by the way, for some of them can be hired to do anything,
                        my boy, and you will be given your choice of going to prison or to some far
                        distant city. You "
                    "But how in thunder is he going to prove that I took any marked
                        bills from him? You've got to prove those things, you know. The
                        courts would not "
                    "Just a moment! Did he pay you by check or with bank notes this
                        morning?"
                    "He gave me a check for thirty dollars, and three ten-dollar bills
                        and a five."
                    "Have you them on your person at present?"
                    "Not all of them. I have wait a second! We'll
                        see." He fumbled in his pocket for the bill-folder.
                    "What did you do with the rest?"
                    "Paid my landlady for good Lord! I see what you mean! He paid me
                        with marked bills! The the damned scoundrel!"
                    "He not only did that, my boy, but he put a man on your trail to
                        recover them as fast as you disposed of them," said M. Mirabeau
                        calmly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    LADY JANE GOES ABOUT IT PROMPTLY
                    
                        A FEW minutes before six o'clock that same
                        afternoon, Mr. James Cricklewick, senior member of the firm of Cricklewick,
                        Stackable & Co., linen merchants, got up from his desk in the
                        crowded little compartment labelled "Private," and peered
                        out of the second-floor window into the busy street below. Thousands of
                        people were scurrying along the pavements in the direction of the
                        brilliantly lighted Fifth Avenue, a few rods away; vague, dusky,
                        unrecognizable forms in the darkness that comes so early and so abruptly to
                        the cross-town streets at the end of a young March day. The middle of the
                        street presented a serried line of snow heaps, piled up by the shovellers
                        the day before, symmetrical little mountains that formed an impassable range
                        over which no chauffeur had the temerity to bolt in his senseless ambition
                        to pass the car ahead.
                    Mr. James Cricklewick sighed. He knew from past experience that the Rock of
                        Ages was but little more enduring than the snow-capped range in front of
                        him. Time and a persistent sun inevitably would do the work of man, but in
                        the meantime Mr. Cricklewick's wagons and trucks were a day and a
                        half behind with deliveries, and that was worth sighing about. As he stood
                        looking down the street, he sighed again. For more than forty years Mr.
                        Cricklewick had made constant use of the phrase: "It's
                        always something." If there  was no
                        one to say it to, he satisfied himself by condensing the lament into a
                        strictly personal sigh.
                    He first resorted to the remark far back in the days when he was in the
                        service of the Marquis of Camelford. If it wasn't one thing that
                        was going wrong it was another; in any event it was "always
                        something."
                    Prosperity and environment had not succeeded in bringing him to the point
                        where he could snap his fingers and lightly say in the face of annoyances:
                        "It's really nothing."
                    The fact that he was, after twenty-five years of ceaseless climbing, at the
                        head of the well-known and thoroughly responsible house of Cricklewick,
                        Stackable & Co., Linen Merchants and Drapers, (he insisted on
                        attaching the London word, not through sentiment, but for the sake of
                        isolation), operated not at all in bringing about a becalmed state of mind.
                        Habitually he was disturbed by little things, which should not be in the
                        least surprising when one stops to think of the multitudinous annoyances he
                        must have experienced while managing the staff of under-servants in the
                        extensive establishment of the late Marquis of Camelford.
                    He had never quite outgrown the temperament which makes for a good and
                        dependable butler, and that, in a way, accounts for the contention that
                        "it is always something," and also for the excellent
                        credit of the house he headed. Mr. Cricklewick made no effort to deceive
                        himself. He occasionally deceived his wife in a mild and innocuous fashion
                        by secretly reverting to form, but not for an instant did he deceive
                        himself. He was a butler and he always would be a butler, despite the fact
                        that the business and a certain section  of the
                        social world looked upon him as a very fine type of English gentleman, with
                        a crest in his shop window and a popularly accepted record of having enjoyed
                        a speaking acquaintance with Edward, the late King of England. Indeed, the
                        late king appears to have enjoyed the same privilege claimed and exercised
                        by the clerks, stenographers and floorwalkers in his employ, although His
                        Majesty had a slight advantage over them in being free to call him
                        "Cricky" to his face instead of behind his back.
                    Mr. Cricklewick, falling into a snug fortune when he was forty-five and at a
                        time when the Marquis felt it to be necessary to curtail expenses by not
                        only reducing his staff of servants but also the salaries of those who
                        remained, married very nicely into a draper's family, and soon
                        afterward voyaged to America to open and operate a branch of the concern in
                        New York City. His fortune, including the savings of twenty years, amounted
                        to something like thirty thousand pounds, most of which had been accumulated
                        by a sheep-raising brother who had gone to and died in Australia. He put
                        quite a bit of this into the business and became a partner, making himself
                        doubly welcome to a family that had suffered considerably through
                        competition in business and a complete lack of it in respect to the
                        matrimonial possibilities of five fully matured daughters.
                    Mr. Cricklewick had the further good sense to marry the youngest, prettiest
                        and most ambitious of the quintette, and thereby paved the way for
                        satisfactory though wholly unexpected social achievements in the  City of New York. His wife, with the customary
                        British scorn for Americans, developed snobbish tendencies that rather
                        alarmed Mr. Cricklewick at the outset of his business career in New York,
                        but which ultimately produced the most remarkable results.
                    Almost before he was safely out of the habit of saying "thank
                        you" when it wasn't at all necessary to say it, his wife
                        had him down at Hot Springs, Virginia, for a month in the fall season,
                        where, because of his exceptionally mellifluous English accent and a
                        stateliness he had never been able to overcome, he was looked upon by
                        certain Anglo-maniacs as a real and unmistakable "toff."
                    Cricklewick had been brought up in, or on, the very best of society. From his
                        earliest days as third groom in the Camelford mnage to the end of his reign
                        as major-domo, he had been in a position to observe and assimilate the
                        manners of the elect. No one knew better than he how to go about being a
                        gentleman. He had had his lessons, not to say examples, from the first
                        gentlemen of England. Having been brought up on dukes and earls, and all
                        that sort of thing, to say nothing of quite a majority in the House of
                        Lords, he was in a fair way of knowing "what's
                        what," to use his own far from original expression.
                    You couldn't fool Cricklewick to save your life. The instant he
                        looked upon you he could put you where you belonged, and, so far as he was
                        concerned, that was where you would have to stay.
                    It is doubtful if there was ever a more discerning, more discriminating
                        butler in all England. It was his  rather
                        astonishing contention that one could be quite at one's ease with
                        dukes and duchesses and absolutely ill-at-ease with ordinary people. That
                        was his way of making the distinction. It wasn't possible to be on
                        terms of intimacy with the people who didn't belong. They never
                        seemed to know their place.
                    The next thing he knew, after the Hot Springs visit, his name began to appear
                        in the newspapers in columns next to advertising matter instead of the other
                        way round. Up to this time it had been a struggle to get it in next to
                        reading matter on account of the exorbitant rates demanded by the
                        newspapers.
                    He protested to his wife. "Oh, I say, my dear, this is cutting it a
                        bit thick, you know. You can't really be in earnest about it. I
                        shouldn't know how to act sitting down at a dinner table like that,
                        you know. I am informed that these people are regarded as real swells over
                        'ere, here, I should say. You must sit down and drop 'em a
                        line saying we can't come. Say we've suddenly been called
                        out of town, or had bad news from home, or "
                    "Rubbish! It will do them no end of good to see how you act at
                        table. Haven't you had the very best of training? All you have to
                        do "
                    "But I had it standing, my dear."
                    "Just the same, I shall accept the invitation. They are very
                        excellent people, and I see no reason why we shouldn't know the
                        best while we're about it."
                    "But they've got millions," he expostulated.
                    "Well," said she, "you musn't believe
                        everything you hear about people with millions. I must say that
                        I've not seen anything especially vulgar about them. So  don't let that stand in your way, old
                        dear." It was unconscious irony.
                    "It hasn't been a great while since I was a butler, my
                        love; don't forget that. A matter of a little over seven
                        years."
                    "Pray do not forget," said she coldly, "that it
                        hasn't been so very long since all these people over here were
                        Indians."
                    Mr. Cricklewick, being more or less hazy concerning overseas history, took
                        heart. They went to the dinner and he, remembering just how certain noblemen
                        of his acquaintance deported themselves, got on famously. And although his
                        wife never had seen a duchess eat, except by proxy in the theatre, she left
                        nothing to be desired, except, perhaps, in the way of food, of which she was
                        so fond that it was rather a bore to nibble as duchesses do.
                    Being a sensible and far-seeing woman, she did not resent it when he mildly
                        protested that Lady So-and-So wouldn't have done this, and the
                        Duchess of You-Know wouldn't have done that. She looked upon him as
                        a master in the School of Manners. It was not long before she was able not
                        only to hold her own with the elite, but also to hold her lorgnette with
                        them. If she did not care to see you in a crowd she could overlook you in
                        the very smartest way.
                    And so, after twenty or twenty-five years, we find the Cricklewicks, mother,
                        father and daughter, substantially settled in the City of Masks, occupying
                        an enviable position in society, and seldom, if ever, even in the bosom of
                        the family, referring to the days of long ago, a precaution no doubt
                        inspired by the fear  that they might be
                        overheard and misunderstood by their own well-trained and admirable butler,
                        whose respect they could not afford to lose.
                    Once a week, on Wednesday nights, Mr. Cricklewick took off his mask. It was,
                        in a sense, his way of going to confession. He told his wife, however, that
                        he was going to the club.
                    He sighed a little more briskly as he turned away from the window and crossed
                        over to the closet in which his fur-lined coat and silk hat were hanging. It
                        had taken time and a great deal of persuasion on the part of his wife to
                        prove to him that it wasn't quite the thing to wear a silk hat with
                        a sack coat in New York; he had grudgingly compromised with the barbaric
                        demands of fashion by dispensing with the sack coat in favour of a cutaway.
                        The silk hat was a fixture.
                    "A lady asking to see you, sir," said his office-boy, after
                        knocking on the door marked "Private."
                    "Hold my coat for me, Thomas," said Mr. Cricklewick.
                    "Yes, sir," said Thomas. "But she says you will
                        see her, sir, just as soon as you gets a look at her."
                    "Obviously," said Mr. Cricklewick, shaking himself down
                        into the great coat. "Don't rub it the wrong way, you
                        simpleton. You should always brush a silk hat with the nap and not
                        "
                    "May I have a few words with you, Mr. Cricklewick?"
                        inquired a sweet, clear voice from the doorway.
                    The head of the house opened his lips to say something sharp to the
                        office-boy, but the words died as he obeyed a magnetic influence and
                        hazarded a glance at the intruder's face.
                    
                    "Bless my soul!" said he, staring. An instant later he had
                        recovered himself. "Take my coat, Thomas. Come in, Lady er Miss
                        Emsdale. Thank you. Run along, Thomas. This is ah a most unexpected
                        pleasure." The door closed behind Thomas. "Pray have a
                        chair, Miss Emsdale. Still quite cold, isn't it?"
                    "I sha'n't detain you for more than five or ten
                        minutes," said Miss Emsdale, sinking into a chair.
                    "At your service, quite at your service," said Mr.
                        Cricklewick, dissolving in the presence of nobility. He could not have
                        helped himself to save his life.
                    Miss Emsdale came to the point at once. To save her life
                        she could not think of Cricklewick as anything but an upper servant.
                    "Please see if we are quite alone, Mr. Cricklewick," she
                        said, laying aside her little fur neck-piece.
                    Mr. Cricklewick started. Like a flash there shot into his brain the voiceless
                        groan: "It's always something." However, he made
                        haste to assure her that they would not be disturbed. "It is
                        closing time, you see," he concluded, not without hope.
                    "I could not get here any earlier," she explained.
                        "I stopped in to ask a little favour of you, Mr.
                        Cricklewick."
                    "You have only to mention it," said he, and then abruptly
                        looked at his watch. The thought struck him that perhaps he did not have
                        enough in his bill-folder; if not, it would be necessary to catch the
                        cashier before the safe was closed for the day.
                    "Lord Temple is in trouble, Mr. Cricklewick," she said, a
                        queer little catch in her voice.
                    
                    "I I am sorry to hear that," said he.
                    "And I do not know of any one who is in a better position to help
                        him than you," she went on coolly.
                    "I shall be happy to be of service to Lord Temple," said
                        Mr. Cricklewick, but not very heartily. Observation had taught him that
                        young noblemen seldom if ever get into trouble half way; they make a
                        practice of going in clean over their heads.
                    "Owing to an unpleasant misunderstanding with Mr. Stuyvesant
                        Smith-Parvis, he has lost his situation as chauffeur for Mr.
                        Carpenter," said she.
                    "I hope he has not ahem! thumped him," said Mr.
                        Cricklewick, in such dismay that he allowed the extremely undignified word
                        to slip out.
                    She smiled faintly. "I said unpleasant, Mr. Cricklewick, not
                        pleasant."
                    "Bless my soul," said Mr. Cricklewick, blinking.
                    "Mr. Smith-Parvis has prevailed upon Mr. Carpenter to dismiss him,
                        and I fear, between them, they are planning to drive him out of the city in
                        disgrace."
                    "Bless me! This is too bad."
                    Without divulging the cause of Smith-Parvis's animosity, she went
                        briefly into the result thereof.
                    "It is really infamous," she concluded, her eyes flashing.
                        "Don't you agree with me?"
                    Having it put to him so abruptly as that, Mr. Cricklewick agreed with her.
                    "Well, then, we must put our heads together, Mr.
                        Cricklewick," she said, with decision.
                    "Quite so," said he, a little vaguely.
                    "He is not to be driven out of the city," said she.
                    
                    "Nor is he to be unjustly acccused of of wrongdoing. We must see to
                        that."
                    Mr. Cricklewick cleared his throat. "He can avoid all that sort of
                        thing, Lady er Miss Emsdale, by simply announcing that he is Lord Temple,
                        heir to one of the "
                    "Oh, he wouldn't think of doing such a thing,"
                        said she quickly.
                    "People would fall over themselves trying to put laurels on his
                        head," he urged. "And, unless I am greatly mistaken, the
                        first to rush up would be the er the Smith-Parvises, headed by
                        Stuyvesant."
                    "No one knows the Smith-Parvises better than you, Mr.
                        Cricklewick," she said, and for some reason he turned quite pink.
                    "Mrs. Cricklewick and I have seen a great deal of them in the past
                        few years," he said, almost apologetically.
                    "And that encourages me to repeat that no one knows them better than
                        you," she said coolly.
                    "We are to dine with Mr. and Mrs. Smith-Parvis tonight,"
                        said Mr. Cricklewick.
                    "Splendid!" she cried, eagerly. "That works in
                        very nicely with the plan I have in mind. You must manage in some way to
                        remark quite casually, of course, that you are very much interested in the
                        affairs of a young fellow-countryman, omitting the name, if you please, who
                        has been dismissed from service as a chauffeur, and who has been threatened
                        "
                    "But my dear Miss Emsdale, I"
                    " threatened with all sorts of things by his late employer. You may
                        also add that you have communicated  with our
                        Ambassador at Washington, and that it is your intention to see your
                        fellow-countryman through if it takes a may I say leg, Mr. Cricklewick?
                        Young Mr. Smith-Parvis will be there to hear you, so you may bluster as much
                        as you please about Great Britain protecting her subjects to the very last
                        shot. The entire machinery of the Foreign Office may be called into action,
                        if necessary, to but I leave all that to you. You might mention, modestly,
                        that it's pretty ticklish business trying to twist the British
                        lion's tail. Do you see what I mean?"
                    Mr. Cricklewick may have had an inward conviction that this was hardly what
                        you would call asking a favour of a person, but if he had
                        he kept it pretty well to himself. It did not occur to him that his present
                        position in the world, as opposed to hers, justified a rather stiff
                        reluctance on his part to take orders, or even suggestions, from this
                        penniless young person, especially in his own sacred lair. On the contrary,
                        he was possessed by the instant and enduring realization that it was the
                        last thing he could bring himself to the point of doing. His father, a
                        butler before him, had gone to considerable pains to convince him, at the
                        outset of his career, that insolence is by far the greatest of vices.
                    Still, in this emergency, he felt constrained to argue, another vice
                        sometimes modified by circumstances and the forbearance of one's
                        betters.
                    "But I haven't communicated with our Ambassador at
                        Washington," he said. "And as for the Foreign Office
                        taking the matter up "
                    "But, don't you see, they
                        couldn't possibly know  that, Mr.
                        Cricklewick," she interrupted, frowning slightly.
                    "Quite true, but I should be telling a falsehood if I said anything
                        of the sort."
                    "Knowing you to be an absolutely truthful and reliable man, Mr.
                        Cricklewick," she said mendaciously, "they would not even
                        dream of questioning your veracity. They do not believe you capable of
                        telling a falsehood. Can't you see how splendidly it would all work
                        out?"
                    Mr. Cricklewick couldn't see, and said so.
                    "Besides," he went on, "suppose that it should get
                        to the ears of the Ambassador."
                    "In that event, you could run over to Washington and tell him in
                        private just who Thomas Trotter is, and then everything would be quite all
                        right. You see," she went on earnestly, "all you have to
                        do is to drop a few words for the benefit of young Mr. Smith-Parvis. He
                        looks upon you as one of the most powerful and influential men in the city,
                        and he wouldn't have you discover that he is in anyway connected
                        with such a vile, underhanded "
                    "How am I to lead up to the subject of chauffeurs?" broke
                        in Mr. Cricklewick weakly. "I can hardly begin talking about
                        chauffeurs er out of a clear sky, you might say."
                    "Don't begin by talking about chauffeurs," she
                        counselled. "Lead up to the issue by speaking of the friendly
                        relations that exist between England and America, and proceed with the hope
                        that nothing may ever transpire to sever the bond of blood and so on. You
                        know what I mean. It is quite simple. And then  look a little serious and distressed, that ought to be easy, Mr.
                        Cricklewick. You must see how naturally it all leads up to the unfortunate
                        affair of your young countryman, whom you are bound to defend, and we are bound to defend, no matter what the consequences
                        may be."
                    Two minutes later she arose triumphant, and put on her stole. Her eyes were
                        sparkling.
                    "I knew you couldn't stand by and see this outrageous thing
                        done to Eric Temple. Thank you. I goodness gracious, I quite forgot a most
                        important thing. In the event that our little scheme does not have the
                        desired result, and they persist in persecuting him, we must have something
                        to fall back upon. I know McFaddan very slightly. (She did not speak of the
                        ex-footman as Mr. McFaddan, nor did Cricklewick take account of the
                        omission). He is, I am informed, one of the most influential men in New
                        York, one of the political bosses, Mr. Smith-Parvis says. He says he is a
                        most unprincipled person. Well, don't you see, he is just the sort
                        of person to fall back upon if all honest measures fail?"
                    Mr. Cricklewick rather blankly murmured something about "honest
                        measures," and then mopped his brow. Miss Emsdale's
                        enthusiam, while acutely ingenuous, had him "sweating
                        blood," as he afterwards put it during a calm and lucid period of
                        retrospection.
                    "I I assure you I have no influence with McFaddan," he
                        began, looking at his handkerchief, and being relieved, no doubt, to find no
                        crimson stains, applied it to his neck with some confidence and vigour.
                        "In fact, we differ vastly in "
                    
                    "McFaddan, being in a position to dictate to the police and, if it
                        should come to the worst, to the magistrates, is a most valuable man to have
                        on our side, Mr. Cricklewick. If you could see him tomorrow morning, I
                        suppose it is too late to see him this evening, and tell him just what you
                        want him to do, I'm sure "
                    "But, Miss Emsdale, you must allow me to say that McFaddan will
                        absolutely refuse to take orders from me. He is no longer what you might say
                        er in a position to be er you see what I mean, I hope."
                    "Nonsense!" she said, dismissing his objection with a word.
                        "McFaddan is an Irishman and therefore eternally committed to the
                        under dog, right or wrong. When you explain the circumstances to him, he
                        will come to our assistance like a flash. And don't overlook the
                        fact, Mr. Cricklewick, that McFaddan will never see the day when he can
                        ignore a a request from you." She had almost said command, but
                        caught the word in time. "By the way, poor Trotter is out of a
                        situation, and I may as well confess to you that he can ill afford to be
                        without one. It has just occurred to me that you may know of some one among
                        your wealthy friends, Mr. Cricklewick, who is in need of a good man. Please
                        rack your brain. Some one to whom you can recommend him as a safe, skilful
                        and competent chauffeur."
                    "I am glad you mention it," said he, brightening
                        perceptibly in the light of something tangible. "This afternooon I
                        was called up on the telephone by a party by some one, I mean to say, asking
                        for information concerning Klausen, the man who used to drive for me. I was
                        obliged to say that his habits were bad, and that  I could not recommend him. It was Mrs. Ellicott Millidew who
                        inquired."
                    "The young one or the old one?" inquired Miss Emsdale
                        quickly.
                    "The elder Mrs. Millidew," said Mr. Cricklewick, in a tone
                        that implied deference to a lady who was entitled to it, even when she was
                        not within earshot. "Not the pretty young widow," he
                        added, risking a smile.
                    "That's all right, then," said Miss Emsdale
                        briskly. "I am sure it would be a most satisfactory place for
                        him."
                    "But she is a very exacting old lady," said he,
                        "and will require references."
                    "I am sure you can give him the very best of references,"
                        said she. "She couldn't ask for anything better than your
                        word that he is a splendid man in every particular. Thank you so much, Mr.
                        Cricklewick. And Lord Temple will be ever so grateful to you too,
                        I'm sure. Oh, you cannot possibly imagine how relieved I am about
                        everything. We are very great friends, Lord Temple and I."
                    He watched the faint hint of the rose steal into her cheeks and a velvety
                        softness come into her eyes.
                    "Nothing could be more perfect," he said, irrelevantly, but
                        with real feeling, and the glow of the rose deepended.
                    "Thank you again, and good-bye," she said, turnning toward
                        the door.
                    It was then that the punctilious Cricklewick forgot himself, and in his
                        desire to be courteous, committed a most unpardonable offence.
                    "My motor is waiting, LAdy Jane," he said, the  words falling out unwittingly. "May
                        I not drop you at Mr. Smith-Parvis's door?"
                    "No, thank you," she said graciously, "You are
                        very good, but the stages go directly past the door."
                    As the door closed behind her, Mr. Cricklewick sat down rather suddenly,
                        overcome by his presumption. Think of it! He had had the brass to invite
                        Lady Jane Thorne to accept a ride in his automobile! He might just as well
                        have had the effrontery to ask her to dine at his house!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    MR. TROTTER FALLS INTO A NEW POSITION
                    THE sagacity of M. Mirabeau went far toward nullifying the hastily laid plans
                        of Stuyvesant Smith-Parvis. It was he who suggested a prompt effort to
                        recover the two marked bills that Trotter had handed to his landlady earlier
                        in the day.
                    Prince Waldeman de Bosky, with a brand new twenty-dollar bill in his
                        possession, (supplied by the excited Frenchman) boarded a Lexington Avenue
                        car and in due time mounted the steps leading to the front door of the
                        lodging house kept by Mrs. Dulaney. Ostensibly he was in search of a room
                        for a gentleman of refinement and culture; Mrs. Dulaney's house had
                        been recommended to him as first class in every particular. The landlady
                        herself showed him a room, fourth-floor front, just vacated (she said) by a
                        most refined gentleman engaged in the phonograph business. It was her rule
                        to demand references from prospective lodgers, but as she had been in the
                        business a great many years it was now possible for her to distinguish a
                        gentleman the instant she laid eyes on him, so it would only be necessary
                        for the present applicant to pay the first week's rent in advance.
                        He could then move in at once.
                    With considerable mortification, she declared that she wouldn't
                        insist on the "advance," knowing gentlemen as perfectly as
                        she did, were it not for the fact that  her
                        rent was due and she was short exactly that amount, having recently sent
                        more than she could spare to a sick sister in Bridgeport.
                    De Bosky was very amiable about it, and very courteous. He said that, so far
                        as he knew, all gentlemen were prepared to pay five dollars in advance when
                        they engaged lodgings by the week, and would she be so good as to take it
                        out of the twenty-dollar bill?
                    Mrs. Dulaney was slightly chagrined. The sight of a twenty-dollar bill caused
                        her to regret not having asked for two weeks down instead of one.
                    "If it does not inconvenience you, madam," said de
                        Bosky," I should like the change in new bills. You have no idea how
                        it offends my artistic sense to " He shuddered a little.
                        "I make a point of never having filthy, germ-disseminating bank
                        notes on my person."
                    "And you are quite right," said she feelingly. "I
                        wish to God I could afford to be as particular. If there's anything
                        I hate it's a dirty old bill. Any one could tell that you are a
                        real gentleman, Mr. Mr. I didn't get the name, did I?"
                    "Drexel," he said.
                    "Excuse me," she said, and moved over a couple of paces in
                        order to place the parlour table between herself and the prospective lodger.
                        Using it as a screen, she fished a thin flat purse from her stocking, and
                        opened it. "I wouldn't do this in the presence of any one
                        but a gentleman," she explained, without embarrassment. As she was
                        twice the size of Prince Waldemar and of a ruggedness that challenged
                        offence, one  might have been justified in
                        crediting her with egotism instead of modesty.
                    Selecting the brightest and crispest from the layer of bank notes, she laid
                        them on the table. De Bosky's eyes glistened.
                    "The city has recently been flooded with counterfeit fives and tens,
                        madam," he said politely. This afforded an excuse for holding the
                        bills to the light for examination.
                    "Now, don't tell me they're phoney," said
                        Mrs. Dulaney, bristling. "I got 'em this morning from the
                        squarest chap I've ever had in my "
                    "I have every reason to believe they are genuine," said he,
                        concealing his exultation behind a patronizing smile. He had discovered the
                        tell-tale marks on both bills. Carefully folding them, he stuck them into
                        his waistcoat pocket. "You may expect me tomorrow, madam, unless,
                        of course, destiny should shape another end for me in the meantime. One
                        never can tell, you know. I may be dead, or your comfortable house may be
                        burned to the ground. It is "
                    "For the Lord's sake, don't make a crack like
                        that," she cried vehemently. "It's bad luck to
                        talk about fire."
                    "In any event," said he jauntily, "you have my
                        five dollars. Au revoir, madam. Auf wiedersehn!" He buttoned Mr.
                        Bramble's ulster close about his throat and gravely bowed himself
                        out into the falling night.
                    In the meantime, Mr. Bramble had substituted two unmarked bills for those
                        remaining in the possession of  Thomas
                        Trotter, and, with the return of Prince Waldemar, briumphant, M. Mirabeau
                        arbitrarily confiscated the entire thirty dollars.
                    "These bills must be concealed at once," he explained.
                        "Temporarily they are out of circulation. Do not give them another
                        thought, my dear Trotter. And now, Monsieur Bookseller, we are in a proper
                        frame of mind to discuss the beefsteak you have neglected to
                        order."
                    "God bless my soul," cried Mr. Bramble in great dismay. His
                        unceremonious departure an instant later was due to panic. Mrs.
                        O'Leary had to be stopped before the tripe and tunny fish had gone
                        too far. Moreover, he had forgotten to tell her that there would be two
                        extra for dinner, besides the extra sirloin.
                    On the following Monday, Thomas Trotter entered the service of Mrs. Millidew,
                        and on the same day Stuyvesant Smith Parvis returned to New York after a
                        hasty and more or less unpremeditated visit to Atlantic City, where he
                        experienced a trying half hour with the unreasonable Mr. Carpenter, who
                        spoke feelingly of a personal loss and most unfeelingly of the British
                        Foreign Office. Every nation in the world, he raged, has a foreign office;
                        foreign offices are as plentiful as birds'-nests. But Tom Trotters
                        were as scarce as hen's-teeth. He would never find another like
                        him.
                    "And what's more," he interrupted himself to say,
                        glowering at the shocked young man, "he's a gentleman, and
                        that's something you ain't, not in a million
                        years."
                    "Ass!" said Mr. Smith-Parvis, under his breath.
                    
                    "What's that?" roared the aggrieved one.
                    "Don't shout like that! People are beginning to stare at
                        "
                    "Thank the Lord I had sense enough to engage a private detective and
                        not to call in the police, as you suggested. That would have been the limit.
                        I've a notion to hunt that boy up and tell him the whole rotten
                        story."
                    "Go ahead and do it," invited Stuyvie, his eyes narrowing,
                        "and I will do a little telling myself. There is one thing in
                        particular your wife would give her ears to hear about you. It will simplify
                        matters tremendously. Go ahead and tell him."
                    Mr. Carpenter appeared to be reflecting. His inflamed sullen eyes assumed a
                        misty, faraway expression.
                    "For two cents I'd tell you to go to hell," he
                        said, after a long silence.
                    "Boy!" called Mr. Smith-Parvis loftily, signalling a
                        passing bell-hop. "Go and get me some small change for this
                        nickel."
                    Mr. Carpenter's face relaxed into a sickly grin.
                        "Can't you take a joke?" he inquired peevishly.
                    "Never mind," said Stuyvie to the bell boy. "I
                        sha'n't need it after all."
                    "What I'd like to know," mused Mr. Carpenter,
                        later on, "is how in thunder the New York police department got
                        wind of all this."
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis, Junior, wiped a fine moisture from his brow, and said:
                        "I forgot to mention that I had to give that plain-clothes man
                        fifty dollars to keep him from going to old man Cricklewick with the whole
                             blooming story. It seems that he got it
                        from your bally private detective."
                    "Good!" said the other brightly. "You got off
                        cheap," he added quickly, catching the look in Stuyvie's
                        eye.
                    "I did it to spare Cricklewick a whole lot of
                        embarrassment," said the younger man stiffly.
                    "I don't get you."
                    "He never could look me in the face again if he found out I was the
                        man he was panning so unmercifully the other night at our own dinner
                        table." He wiped his brow again. "'Gad,
                        he'd never forgive himself."
                    Which goes to prove that Stuyvie was more considerate of the feelings of
                        others than one might have credited him with being.
                    Mrs. Millidew was very particular about chauffeurs, an idiosyncrasy, it may
                        be said, that brought her into contact with a great many of them in the
                        course of a twelvemonth. The last one to leave her without giving the
                        customary week's notice had remained in her employ longer than any
                        of his predecessors. A most astonishing discrepancy appeared in their
                        statements as to the exact length of time he was in her service. Mrs.
                        Millidew maintained that he was with her for exactly three weeks; the
                        chauffeur swore to high heaven that it was three centuries.
                    She had Thomas Trotter up before her.
                    "You have been recommended to me by Mr. Cricklewick," she
                        said, regarding him with a critical eye, "No other reference is
                        necessary, so don't go fumbling  in
                        your pockets for a pack of filthy envelopes. What is your name?"
                    She was a fat little old woman with yellow hair and exceedingly black and
                        carefully placed eyebrows.
                    "Thomas Trotter, madam."
                    "How tall are you?"
                    "Six feet."
                    "I am afraid you will not do," she said, taking another
                        look at him.
                    Trotter stared. "I am sorry, madam."
                    "You are much too tall. Nothing will fit you."
                    "Are you speaking of livery, madam?"
                    "I'm speaking of a uniform," she said. "I
                        can't be buying new uniforms every two weeks. I don't mind
                        a cap once in awhile, but uniforms cost money. Mr. Cricklewick
                        didn't tell me you were so tall. As a matter of fact, I think I
                        neglected to say to him that you would have to be under five feet nine and
                        fairly thin. You couldn't possibly squeeze into the uniform, my
                        man. I am sorry. I have tried everything but an English chauffeur, and you
                            are English, aren't you?"
                    "Yes, madam. Permit me to solve the problem for you. I never, under
                        any circumstances, wear livery, I beg your pardon, I should say a
                        uniform."
                    "You never what?" demanded Mrs. Millidew, blinking.
                    "Wear livery," said he, succinctly.
                    "That settles it," said she. "You'd have
                        to if you worked for me. Now, see here, my man, it's possible
                        you'll change your mind after you've seen the uniform I
                        put on my chauffeurs. It's a sort of maroon "
                    "I beg your pardon, madam," he interrupted politely,  favouring her with his never-failing smile.
                        Her gaze rested for a moment on his white, even teeth, and then went up to
                        meet his deep grey eyes. "A cap is as far as I go. A sort of blue
                        fatigue cap, you know."
                    "I like your face," said she regretfully. "You are
                        quite a good-looking fellow. The last man I had looked like a street
                        cleaner, even in his maroon coat and white pants. I Don't you think
                        you could be persuaded to put it on if I, well, if I added five dollars a
                        week to your wages? I like your looks. You look as if you might have been a
                        soldier."
                    Trotter swallowed hard. "I shouldn't in the least object to
                        wearing the uniform of a soldier, Mrs. Millidew. That's quite
                        different, you see."
                    "Suppose I take you on trial for a couple of weeks," she
                        ventured, surrendering to his smile and the light in his unservile eyes.
                        Considering the matter settled, she went on brusquely: "How old are
                        you, Trotter?"
                    "Thirty."
                    "Are you married? I never employ married men. Their wives are always
                        having babies or operations or something disagreeable and
                        unnecessary."
                    "I am not married, Mrs. Millidew."
                    "Who was your last employer in England?"
                    "His Majesty King George the Fifth," said Trotter calmly.
                    Her eyes bulged. "What?" she cried. Then her eyes narrowed.
                        "And do you mean to tell me you didn't wear a uniform when
                        you worked for him?"
                    "I wore a uniform, madam."
                    "Umph! America has spoiled you, I see. That's always the
                        way. Independence is a curse. Have you  ever
                        been arrested? Wait! Don't answer. I withdraw the question. You
                        would only lie, and that is a bad way to begin."
                    "I lie only when it is absolutely necessary, Mrs. Millidew. In
                        police courts, for example."
                    "Good! Now, you are young, good looking and likely to be spoiled. It
                        must be understood in the beginning, Trotter, that there is to be no
                        foolishness with women." She regarded him severely.
                    "No foolishness whatsoever," said he humbly, raising his
                        eyes to heaven.
                    "How long were you employed in your last job ah,
                        situation?"
                    "Not quite a twelve-month, madam."
                    "And now," she said, with a graciousness that surprised
                        her, "perhaps you would like to put a few questions to me. The
                        cooks always do."
                    He smiled more engagingly than ever. "As they say in the
                        advertisements of lost jewellery, madam,' no questions
                        asked,'" he said.
                    "Eh? Oh, I see. Rather good. I hope you know your place,
                        though," she added, narrowly. "I don't approve of
                        freshness."
                    "No more do I," said he, agreeably.
                    "I suppose you are accustomed to driving in er in good society,
                        Trotter. You know what I mean."
                    "Perfectly. I have driven in the very best, madam, if I do say it as
                        shouldn't. Beg pardon, I daresay you mean smart
                        society?" He appeared to be very much concerned, even going so far
                        as to send an appraising eye around the room, doubtless for the purpose of
                        satisfying himself that she was quite up to the standard.
                    
                    "Of course," she said hastily. Something told her that if
                        she didn't nab him on the spot he would get away from her.
                        "Can you start in at once, Trotter?"
                    "We have not agreed upon the wages, madam."
                    "I have never paid less than forty a week," she said
                        stiffly. "Even for bad ones," she added.
                    He smiled, but said nothing, apparently waiting for her to proceed.
                    "Would fifty a week suit you?" she asked, after a long
                        pause. She was a little helpless.
                    "Quite," said he.
                    "It's a lot of money," she murmured. "But
                        I like the way you speak English. By the way, let me hear you say:
                        "It is half after four, madam. Are you going on to Mrs.
                        Brown's.'"
                    Trotter laid himself out. He said "hawf-paast," and
                        "fou-ah," and "Meddem," and
                        "gelling," in a way that delighted her.
                    "I shall be going out at three o'clock, Trotter. Be on
                        time. I insist on punctuality."
                    "Very good, madam," he said, and retreated in good order.
                        She halted him at the door.
                    "Above all things you mustn't let any of these silly women
                        make a fool of you, Trotter," she said, a troubled gleam in her
                        eyes.
                    "I will do my best, madam," he assured her.
                    And that very afternoon she appeared in triumph at the home of her
                        daughter-in-law (the young Mrs. Millidew) and invited that widowed siren to
                        go out for a spin with her "behind the stunningest creature you
                        ever laid your eyes on."
                    "Where did you get him?" inquired the beautiful  daughter-in-law, later on, in a voice
                        perfectly audible to the man at the wheel. "He's the best
                        looking thing in town. Don't be surprised if I steal him inside of
                        a week." She might as well have been at the zoo, discussing
                        impervious captives.
                    "Now, don't try anything like that," cried Mrs.
                        Millidew the elder, glaring fiercely.
                    "I like the way his hair kinks in the back, and just above his
                        ears," said the other. "And his skin is as smooth and as
                        clear"
                    "Is there any drive in particular you would like to take,
                        madam?" broke in Trotter, turning in the seat.
                    "Up up and down Fifth Avenue," said Mrs. Millidew promptly.
                    "Did you ever see such teeth?" cried Mrs. Millidew, the
                        younger, delightedly.
                    Trotter's ears were noticeable on account of their colour.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    PUTTING THEIR HEADSAND HEARTSTOGETHER
                    "FOR every caress," philosophized the
                        Marchioness," there is a pinch. Somehow they manage to keep on
                        pretty even terms. One receives the caresses fairly early in life, the
                        pinches later on. You shouldn't be complaining at your time of
                        life, my friend."
                    She was speaking to Lord Temple, who had presented himself a full thirty
                        minutes ahead of other expected guests at the Wednesday evening salon. He
                        explained that he came early because he had to leave early. Mrs. Millidew
                        was at the theatre. She was giving a box party. He had been directed to
                        return to the theatre before the end of the second act. Mrs. Millidew, it
                        appears, was in the habit of "walking out" on every play
                        she attended, sometimes at the end of an act but more frequently in the
                        middle of it, greatly to the relief of actors and audience.
                    (" Tell me something good to read," said one of her guests,
                        in the middle of the first act, addressing no one in particular, the
                        audience being a very large one. "Is there anything new
                        that's worth while?
                    "The Three Musketeers is a corker," said
                        the man next her. "Awfully exciting."
                    "Write it down for me, dear boy. I will order it  sent up tomorrow. One has so little time to
                        read, you know. Anything else?"
                    "You must read Trilby,"
                        cried one of the other women, frowning slightly in the direction of the
                        stage, where an actor was doing his best to break into the general
                        conversation. "It's perfectly ripping, I hear. And there
                        is another book called Three Men in a Yacht, or something
                        like that. Have you had it?"
                    "No. Good Lord, what a noisy person he is! One can't hear
                        oneself think, the way he's roaring. Three Men in a
                            Yacht. Put that down, too, Bertie. Dear me, how do you find the
                        time to keep up with your reading, my dear? It's absolutely
                        impossible for me. I'm always six months or a year behind
                        "
                    "Have you read Brewster's Millions, Mrs.
                        Cork-wright?" timidly inquired a rather up-to-date gentleman.
                    "That isn't a book. It's a play," said
                        Mrs. Milldew. "I saw it ten years ago. There is a ship in
                        it."
                    "I'm not complaining," remarked Lord Temple,
                        smiling down upon the Marchioness, who was seated in front of the fireplace.
                        "I merely announced that the world is getting to be a dreary old
                        place, and that's all."
                    "Ah, but you made the announcement after a silence of five minutes
                        following my remark that Lady Jane Thorne finds it impossible to be with us
                        tonight."
                    He blushed. "Did it seem as long as that?" he said,
                        penitently. "I'm sorry."
                    "How do you like your new situation?" she inquired,
                        changing the subject abruptly.
                    
                    He gave a slight start. It was an unwritten law that one's daily
                        occupation should not be discussed at the weekly drawing-rooms. For example,
                        it is easy to conceive that one could not be forgiven for asking the Count
                        Pietro Poloni how many nickels he had taken in during the day as Humpy the
                        Organgrinder.
                    Lord Temple also stared. Was it possible that she was forgetting that Thomas
                        Trotter, the chauffeur, was hanging over the back of a chair in the locker
                        room down-stairs, where he had been left by a hurried and somewhat untidy
                        Lord Temple?
                    "As well as could be expected," he replied, after a moment.
                    "Mrs. Millidew came in to see me today. She informed me that she had
                        put in her thumb and pulled out a plum. Meaning you, of course."
                    "How utterly English you are, my dear Marchioness. She mentioned a
                        fruit of some kind, and you missed the point altogether.
                        'Peach' is the word she's been using for the past
                        two days, just plain, ordinary 'peach.' A dozen times a
                        day she sticks a finger almost up against my manly back, and says proudly:
                        'See my new chauffeur. Isn't he a peach? 'I
                        can't see how you make plum out of it."
                    The Marchioness laughed. "It doesn't matter. She dragged me
                        to the window this afternoon and pointed down at you sitting alone in all
                        your splendour. I am afraid I gasped. I couldn't believe my eyes.
                        You won't last long, dear boy. She's a dreadful
                        woman."
                    "I'm not worrying. I shouldn't be out of a
                        situation  long. Do you happen to know her
                        daughter-in-law?"
                    "I do," said the Marchioness, frowning.
                    "She told me this morning that the instant I felt I
                        couldn't stand the old lady any longer, she'd give me a
                        job on the spot. As a matter-of-fact, she went so far as to say
                        she'd be willing to pay me more money if I felt the slightest
                        inclination to leave my present position at once."
                    The Marchioness smiled faintly. "No other recommendation necessary,
                        eh?"
                    "Beg pardon?"
                    "In other words, she is willing to accept you at your face
                        value."
                    "I daresay I have a competent face," he acknowledged, his
                        smile broadening into a grin.
                    "Designed especially for women," said she.
                    He coloured. "Oh, I say, that's a bit rough."
                    "And thoroughly approved by men," she added.
                    "That's better," he said. "I'm
                        not a ladies' man, you know, thank God." His face clouded.
                        "Is Lady Jane ill?"
                    "Apparently not. She merely telephoned to say it would be impossible
                        to come." She eyed him shrewdly. "Do you know anything
                        about it, young man?"
                    "Have you seen her, lately?" he parried.
                    "Yesterday afternoon," she answered, keeping her eyes upon
                        his half-averted face. "See here, Eric Temple," she broke
                        out suddenly, "she is unhappy most unhappy. I am not sure that I
                        ought to tell you and yet, you are in love with her, so you should know.
                        Now, don't say you are not in love with her! Save  your breath. The trouble is, you are not the
                        only man who is in that peculiar fix."
                    "I know," he said, frowning darkly.
                        "She's being annoyed by that infernal blighter."
                    "Oho, so you do know, then?" she cried.
                        "She was very careful to leave you out of the story altogether.
                        Well, I'm glad you know. What are you going to do about
                        it?"
                    "I? Why, why, what can I do?"
                    "There is a great deal you can do."
                    "But she has laid down the law, hard and fast. She won't
                        let me," he groaned.
                    The Marchioness blinked rapidly. "Well, of all the stupid, Say that
                        again, please."
                    "She won't let me. I would in a second, you know, no matter
                        if it did land me in jail for "
                    "What are you talking about?" she gasped.
                    "Punching his bally head till he wouldn't know it himself
                        in the mirror," he grated, looking at his fist almost tearfully.
                    The Marchioness opened her lips to say something, thought better of it, and
                        turned her head to smile.
                    "Moreover," he went on, "she's right.
                        Might get her into no end of a mess with those people, you see. It breaks my
                        heart to think of her "
                    "He wants her to run away with him and be married," she
                        broke in.
                    "What!" he almost shouted, glaring at her as if she were
                        the real offender. "You did she tell you that?"
                    "Yes. He rather favours San Francisco. He wants her to go out there
                        with him and be married by  a chap to whom he
                        promised the distinction while they were still in their teens."
                    "The cur! That's his game, is it? Why, that's the
                        foulest trick known to"
                    "But she isn't going, my friend, so possess yourself in
                        peace. That's why he is turning off so nasty. He is making things
                        most unpleasant for her."
                    He wondered how far Jane had gone in her confidences. Had she told the
                        Marchioness everything?
                    "Why doesn't she leave the place?" he demanded, as
                        a feeler.
                    Lady Jane had told the Marchioness everything, and a great deal more besides,
                        including, it may be said, something touching upon her own feelings toward
                        Lord Temple. But the Marchioness was under imperative orders. Not for the
                        world, was Thomas Trotter to know that Miss Emsdale, among others, was a
                        perfect fool about him.
                    "She must have her bread and butter, you know," said she
                        severely.
                    "But she can get that elsewhere, can't she?"
                    "Certainly. She can get it by marrying some decent, respectable
                        fellow and all that sort of thing, but she can't get another place
                        in New York as governess if the Smith-Parvis establishment turns her out
                        with a bad name."
                    He swallowed hard, and went a little pale. "Of course, she
                        isn't thinking of of getting married."
                    "Yes, she is," said the Marchioness flatly.
                    "Has has she told you that in so many words, Marchioness?"
                        he asked, his heart going to his boots.
                    "Is it fair to ask that question, Lord Temple?"
                    
                    "No. It isn't fair. I have no right to pry into her
                        affairs. I'm I'm desperately concerned, that's
                        all. It's my only excuse."
                    "It isn't strange that she should be in love, is
                        it?"
                    "But I I don't see who the deuce she can have found over
                        here to to fall in love with," he floundered.
                    "There are millions of good, fine Americans, my friend. Young
                        Smith-Parvis is one of the exceptions."
                    "He isn't an American," said Lord Temple,
                        savagely.
                    "Don't insult America by mentioning his name in "
                    "Please, please! Be careful not to knock over the lamp, dear boy.
                        It's Florentine, and Count Antonio says it came from some dreadful
                        sixteenth-century woman's bedroom, price two hundred guineas net.
                        She's afraid she's being watched."
                    "She? Oh, you mean Lady Jane?"
                    "Certainly. The other woman has been dead for centuries. Jane thinks
                        it isn't safe for her to come here for a little while.
                        There's no telling what the wretch may stoop to, you see."
                    Lord Temple squared his shoulders. "I don't see how you can
                        be so cheerful about it," he said icily. "I fear it
                        isn't worth while to ask the favour I came to er to ask of you
                        tonight."
                    "Don't be silly. Tell me what I can do for you."
                    "It isn't for me. It's for her. I came early
                        tonight so that we could talk it all over before any one else arrived.
                        I've slept precious little the last few nights,
                        Marchioness." His brow was furrowed as with pain. "In the
                        first place, you will agree that she cannot remain in that house up there.
                        That's settled."  As she did
                        not offer any audible support, he demanded, after a pause:
                        "Isn't it?"
                    "I daresay she will have something to say about that," she
                        said, temporizing. "She is her own mistress, you know."
                    "But the poor girl doesn't know where to turn," he
                        protested. "She'd chuck it in a second if something else
                        turned up."
                    "I spoke of marriage, you will remember," she remarked,
                        drily.
                    "I I know," he gulped. "But we've just
                        got to tide her over the rough going until she's until
                        she's ready, you see." He could not force the miserable
                        word out of his mouth. "Now, I have a plan. Are you prepared to
                        back me up in it?"
                    "How can I answer that question?"
                    "Well, I'll explain," he went on rapidly, eagerly.
                    "We've got to make a new position for her. I can't
                        do it without your help, of course, so we'll have to combine
                        forces. Now, here's the scheme I've worked out. You are to
                        give her a place here, not downstairs in the shop, mind you, but upstairs in
                        your own, private apartment. You "
                    "Good heavens, man! What are you saying? Would you have Lady Jane
                        Thorne go into service? Do you dare suggest that she should put on a cap and
                        apron and "
                    "Not at all," he interrupted. "I want you to
                        engage her as your private secretary, at a salary of one hundred dollars a
                        month. She's receiving that amount from the Smith-Parvises. I
                        don't see how she can get along on less, so "
                    
                    "My dear man!" cried the Marchioness, in amazement.
                        "What are you talking about? In the first place,
                        I haven't the slightest use for a private secretary. In the second
                        place, I can't afford to pay one hundred "
                    "You haven't heard all I have to say "
                    "And in the third place, Lady Jane wouldn't consider it in
                        the first place. Bless my soul, you do need sleep. You are
                        losing your "
                    "She sends nearly all of her salary over to the boy at
                        home," he went on earnestly. "It will have to be one
                        hundred dollars, at the very lowest. Now, here's my proposition. I
                        am getting two hundred a month. It's just twice as much as
                        I'm worth, or any other chauffeur, for that matter. Well, now
                        what's the matter with me taking just what I'm worth and
                        giving her the other half? See what I mean?"
                    He was standing before her, his eyes glowing, his voice full of boyish
                        eagerness. As she looked up into his shining eyes, a tender smile came and
                        played about her lips.
                    "I see," she said softly.
                    "Well?" he demanded anxiously, after a moment.
                    "Do sit down," she said. "You appear to have grown
                        prodigiously tall in the last few minutes. I shall have a dreadful crick in
                        my neck, I'm afraid."
                    He pulled up a chair and sat down.
                    "I can get along like a breeze on a hundred dollars a
                        month," he pursued. "I've worked it all out, just
                        how much I can save by moving into cheaper lodgings, and cutting out
                        expensive cigarettes, and going on the water-wagon entirely, although I
                        rarely take a drink  as it is, and getting my
                        clothes at a department store instead of having them sent out from London,
                        I'd be easy to fit, you see, even with hand-me-downs, and in a lot
                        of other ways. Besides, it would be a splendid idea for me to practise
                        economy. I've never "
                    "You dear old goose," broke in the Marchioness,
                        delightedly; "do you think for an instant that I will allow you to
                        pay the salary of my private secretary, if I should conclude to employ
                        one?"
                    "But you say you can't afford to employ one," he
                        protested. "Besides, I shouldn't want her to be a real
                        secretary. The work would be too hard and too confining. Old Bramble was my
                        grandfather's secretary. He worked sixteen hours a day and never
                        had a holiday. She must have plenty of fresh air and outdoor exercise and
                        and time to read and do all sorts of agreeable things. I couldn't
                        think of allowing her to learn how to use a typing machine, or to write
                        shorthand, or to get pains in her back bending over a desk for hours at a
                        time. That isn't my scheme, at all. She mustn't do any of
                        those stupid things. Naturally, if you were to pay her out of your own
                        pocket, you'd be justified in demanding a lot of hard, exacting
                        work "
                    "Just a moment, please. Let's be serious," said
                        the Marchioness, pursing her lips.
                    "Suffering " he began, staring at her in astonishment.
                    "I mean, let's seriously consider your scheme,"
                        she hastened to amend. "You are assuming, of course, that she will
                        accept a position such as you suggest. Suppose she says no, what
                        then?"
                    
                    "I leave that entirely to you," said he, composedly.
                        "You can persuade her, I'm sure."
                    "She is no fool. She is perfectly well aware that I don't
                        require the services of a secretary, that I am quite able to manage my
                        private affairs myself. She would see through me in a second. She is as
                        proud as Lucifer. I don't like to think of what she would say to
                        me. And if I were to offer to pay her one hundred dollars a month, she would
                        well, she would think I was losing my mind. She knows I "
                    "By Jove!" he exclaimed, slapping his knee, his face
                        beaming. "That's the ticket! That simplifies everything.
                        Let her think you are losing your mind. From worry and overwork and all that
                        sort of thing. It's the very thing, Marchioness. She would drop
                        everything to help you in a case like that."
                    "Well, of all the " began the Marchioness, aghast.
                    "You can put it up to her something like this," he went on,
                        enthusiastically. "Tell her you are on the point of having a
                        nervous breakdown, a sort of collapse, you know. You know how to put it,
                        better than I do. You "
                    "I certainly do not know how to put it better than you do,"
                        she cried, sitting up very straight.
                    "Tell her you are dreadfully worried over not being able to remember
                        things, mental strain, and all that sort of thing. May have to give up
                        business altogether unless you can Is it a laughing matter,
                        Marchioness?" he broke off, reddening to the roots of his hair.
                    "You are delicious!" she cried, dabbing her eyes with a bit
                        of a lace handkerchief. "I haven't laughed so heartily in
                        months. Bless my soul, you'll have me telling  her there is insanity in my family before you're
                        through with it."
                    "Not at all," he said severely. "People never admit that sort of thing, you know. But certainly it
                        isn't asking too much of you to act tired and listless, and a
                        little distracted, is it? She'll ask what's the matter,
                        and you simply say you're afraid you're going to have a
                        nervous breakdown or or "
                    "Or paresis," she supplied.
                    "Whatever you like," he said promptly. "Now you
                        will do this for me, won't you? You don't know what it
                        will mean to me to feel that she is safe here with you."
                    "I will do my best," she said, for she loved him dearly and
                        the girl that he loved dearly too.
                    "Hurray!" he shouted, and kissed her!
                    "Don't be foolish," she cried out.
                        "You've tumbled my hair, and Julia had a terrible time
                        with it tonight."
                    "When will you tackle see her, I mean?" he asked, sitting
                        down abruptly and drawing his chair a little closer.
                    "The first time she comes in to see me," she replied
                        firmly, "and not before. You must not demand too much of a sick,
                        collapsible old lady, you know. Give me time, and a chance to get my
                        bearings."
                    He drew a long breath. "I seem to be getting my own for the first
                        time in days."
                    She hesitated. "Of course, it is all very quixotic, and most
                        unselfish of you, Lord Temple. Not every man would do as much for a girl who
                        well, I'll not say a girl who is going to be married before long,
                        because I'd only be speculating, but for a girl, at any rate, who
                        can never be expected to repay. I take it,  of
                        course, that Lady Jane is never, under any circumstances to know that you
                        are the real paymaster."
                    "She must never know," he gasped, turning a shade paler.
                        "She would hate me, and well, I couldn't stand that, you
                        know."
                    "And you will not repent when the time comes for her to
                        marry?"
                    "I'll I'll be miserably unhappy, but but, you will
                        not hear a whimper out of me," he said, his face very long.
                    "Spoken like a hero," she said, and again she laughed,
                        apparently without reason. "Some one is coming. Will you
                        stay?"
                    "No; I'll be off, Marchioness. You don't know how
                        relieved I am. I'll drop in tomorrow some time to see what she
                        says, and to arrange with you about the money. Good night!" He
                        kissed her hand, and turned to McFaddan, who had entered the room.
                        "Call a taxi for me, McFaddan."
                    "Very good, sir."
                    "Wait! Never mind. I'll walk or take a street
                        car." To the Marchioness: "I'm beginning right
                        now," he said, with his gayest smile.
                    In the foyer he encountered Cricklewick.
                    "Pleasant evening, Cricklewick," he said.
                    "It is, your lordship. Most agreeable change, sir."
                    "A bit soft under foot."
                    "Slushy, sir," said Cricklewick, obsequiously.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    WINNING BY A NOSE
                    MRS. SMITH-PARVIS, having received the annual spring announcement from Juneo
                        & Co., repaired, on an empty Thursday, to the show-rooms and
                        galleries of the little Italian dealer in antiques.
                    Twice a year she disdainfully, and somewhat hastily, went through his stock,
                        always proclaiming at the outset that she was merely "looking
                        around"; she'd come in later if she saw anything really
                        worth having. It was her habit to demand the services of Mr. Juneo himself
                        on these profitless visits to his establishment. She looked holes through
                        the presumptuous underlings who politely adventured to inquire if she was
                        looking for anything in particular. It would seem that the only thing in
                        particular that she was looking for was the head of the house, and if he
                        happened to be out she made it very plain that she didn't see how
                        he ever did any business if he wasn't there to look after it.
                    And if little Mr. Juneo was in, she swiftly conducted him through the various
                        departments of his own shop, questioning the genuineness of everything,
                        denouncing his prices, and departing at last with the announcement that she
                        could always find what she wanted at Pickett's.
                    At Pickett's she invariably encountered coldly punctilious gentlemen
                        in "frockaway" coats, who were never quite sure, without
                        inquiring, whether Mr. Moody was  at liberty.
                        Would she kindly take a seat and wait, or would she prefer to have a look
                        about the galleries while some one went off to see if he could see her at
                        once or a little later on? She liked all this. And she would wander about
                        the luxurious rooms of the establishment of Pickett, Inc., content to stare
                        languidly at other and less influential patrons who had to be satisfied with
                        the smug attentions of ordinary salesmen.
                    And Moody, being acutely English, laid it on very thick when it came to
                        dealing with persons of the type of Mrs. Smith Parvis. Somehow he had
                        learned that in dealing with snobs one must transcend even in snobbishness.
                        The only way to command the respect of a snob is to go him a little better,
                        indeed, according to Moody, it isn't altogether out of place to go
                        him a great deal better. The loftier the snob, the higher you must shoot to
                        get over his head (to quote Moody, whose training as a footman in one of the
                        oldest houses in England had prepared him against almost any emergency). He
                        assumed on occasion a polite, bored indifference that seldom failed to have
                        the desired effect. In fact, he frequently went so far as to pretend to
                        stifle a yawn while face to face with the most exalted of patrons, a
                        revelation of courage which, being carefully timed, usually put the patron
                        in a corner from which she could escape only by paying a heavy ransom.
                    He sometimes had a way of implying, by his manner, of course, that he would
                        rather not sell the treasure at all than to have it go into your mansion, where it would be manifestly alone in its splendour,
                        notwithstanding the priceless articles you had picked up elsewhere in
                        previous efforts to inhabit the place with glory.  On the other hand, if you happened to be nobody at all and
                        therefore likely to resent being squelched, he could sell you a ten-dollar
                        candlestick quite as amiably as the humblest clerk in the place. Indeed, he
                        was quite capable of giving it to you for nine dollars if he found he had
                        not quite correctly sized you up in the beginning.
                    As he never erred in sizing up people of the Smith-Parvis ilk, however, his
                        profits were sublime. Accident, and nothing less, brought him into contact
                        with the common people looking for bargains: such as the faulty adjustment
                        of his monocle, or a similarity in backs, or the perverseness of the
                        telephone, or a sudden shower. Sudden showers always remind pedestrians
                        without umbrellas that they've been meaning for a long time to stop
                        in and price things, and they clutter up the place so.
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis was bent on discovering something cheap and unusual for the
                        twins, whose joint birthday anniversary was but two days off. It occurred to
                        her that it would be wise to give them another heirloom apiece. Something
                        English, of course, in view of the fact that her husband's
                        forebears had come over from England with the twenty or thirty thousand
                        voyagers who stuffed the Mayflower from stem to stern on
                        her historic maiden trip across the Atlantic.
                    Secretly, she had never got over being annoyed with the twins for having come
                        regardless, so to speak. She had prayed for another boy like Stuyvesant, and
                        along came the twins no doubt as a sort of sop in the form of good measure.
                        If there had to be twins, why under heaven couldn't she have been
                        blessed with them on  Stuyvesant's
                        natal day? She couldn't have had too many Stuyvesants.
                    Still, she considered it her duty to be as nice as possible to the twins, now
                        that she had them; and besides, they were growing up to be surprisingly
                        pretty girls, with a pleasantly increasing resemblance to Stuyvesant.
                    Always, a day or two prior to the anniversary, she went surreptitiously into
                        the antique shops and picked out for each of them a piece of jewellery, or a
                        bit of china, or a strip of lace, or anything else that bore evidence of
                        having once been in a very nice sort of family. On the glad morning she
                        delivered her gifts, with sweet impressiveness, into the keeping of these
                        remote little descendants of her beloved ancestors! Invariably something
                        English, heirlooms that she had kept under lock and key since the day they
                        came to Mr. Smith-Parvis under the terms of his great-grandmother's
                        will. Up to the time Stuyvesant was sixteen he had been getting heirlooms
                        from a long-departed great-grandfather, but on reaching that vital age, he
                        declared that he preferred cash.
                    The twins had a rare assortment of family heirlooms in the little glass
                        cabinets upstairs.
                    "You must cherish them for ever," said their mother,
                        without compunction. "They represent a great deal more than mere
                        money, my dears. They are the intrinsic bonds that connect you with a
                        glorious past."
                    When they were ten she gave them a pair of beautiful miniatures, a most
                        alluring and imperial looking young lady with powdered hair, and a gallant
                        young gentleman with orders pinned all over his bright red coat. It appears
                        that the lady of the miniature was a  great
                        personage at court a great many years before the misguided Colonists
                        revolted against King George the Third, and they her darling twins were
                        directly descended from her. The gentleman was her husband.
                    "He was awfully handsome," one of the twins had said, being
                        romantic. "Are we descended from him too, mamma?" she
                        inquired innocently.
                    "Certainly," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis severely.
                    A predecessor of Miss Emsdale's got her walking papers for putting
                        nonsense (as well as the truth) into the heads of the children. At least,
                        she told them something that paved the way for a most embarrassing
                        disclosure by one of the twins when a visitor was complimenting them on
                        being such nice, lovely little ladies.
                    "We ought to be," said Eudora proudly. "We are
                        descended from Madam du Barry. We've got her picture
                        upstairs."
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis took Miss Emsdale with her on this particular Thursday
                        afternoon. This was at the suggestion of Stuyvesant, who held forth that an
                        English governess was in every way qualified to pass upon English wares, new
                        or old, and there wasn't any sense in getting
                        "stung" when there was a way to protect oneself, and all
                        that sort of thing.
                    Stuyvesant also joined the hunt.
                    "Rather a lark, eh, what?" he whispered in Miss
                        Emsdale's ear as they followed his stately mother into the shop of
                        Juneo & Co. She jerked her arm away.
                    The proprietor was haled forth. Courteous, suave and polished though he was,
                        Signor Jumeo had the misfortune to be a trifle shabby, and sartorially
                        remiss.  Mrs. Smith-Parvis eyed him from a
                        peak, a very lofty peak.
                    Ten minutes sufficed to convince her that he had nothing in his place that
                        she could think of buying.
                    "My dear sir," she said haughtily, "I know just
                        what I want, so don't try to palm off any of this jewellery on me.
                        Miss Emsdale knows the Queen Anne period quite as well as I do,
                        I've no doubt. Queen Anne never laid eyes on that wristlet, Mr.
                        Junco."
                    "Pardon me, Mrs. Smith-Parvis, I fear you misunderstood
                        me," said the little dealer politely. "I think I said that
                        it was of Queen Anne's period "
                    "What time is it, Stuyvesant?" broke in the lady, turning
                        her back on the merchant. "We must be getting on to
                        Picket's. It is really a waste of time, coming to places like this.
                        One should go to Pickett's in the first "
                    "There are a lot of ripping things here, mater," said
                        Stuyvesant, his eyes resting on a comfortable couch in a somewhat secluded
                        corner of the shop. "Take a look around. Miss Emsdale and I will
                        take a back seat, so that you may go about it with an open mind. I daresay
                        we confuse you frightfully, tagging at your heels all the time, what? Come
                        along, Miss Emsdale. You look fagged and "
                    "Thank you, I am quite all right," said Miss Emsdale, the
                        red spots in her cheeks darkening.
                    "Oh, be a sport," he urged, under his voice.
                        "I've just got to have a few words with you. It's
                        been days since we've had a good talk. Looks as though you were
                        deliberately avoiding me."
                    "I am," said she succinctly.
                    
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis had gone on ahead with Signer Juneo, and was loudly
                        criticizing a beautiful old Venetian mirror which he had the temerity to
                        point out to her.
                    "Well, I don't like it," Stuyvesant said roughly.
                        "That sort of thing doesn't go with me, Miss Emsdale. And,
                        hang it all, why haven't you had the decency to answer the two
                        notes I stuck under your door last night and the night before?"
                    "I did not read the second one," she said, flushing
                        painfully. "You have no right to assume that I will meet you oh,
                            can't you be a gentleman?"
                    He gasped. "My God! Can you beat that!"
                    "It is becoming unbearable, Mr. Smith-Parvis," said she,
                        looking him straight in the eye. "If you persist, I shall be
                        compelled to speak to your mother."
                    "Go ahead," he said sarcastically. "I'm
                        ready for exposure if you are."
                    "And I am now prepared to give up my position," she added,
                        white and calm.
                    "Good!" he exclaimed promptly. "I'll see
                        that you never regret it," he went on eagerly, his enormous vanity
                        reaching out for but one conclusion.
                    "You beast!" she hissed, and walked away.
                    He looked bewildered. "I'm blowed if I understand
                        what's got into women lately," he muttered, and passed his
                        fingers over his brow.
                    On the way to Pickett's, Mrs. Smith-Parvis dilated upon the
                        unspeakable Mr. Juneo.
                    "You will be struck at once, Miss Emsdale, by the contrast. The
                        instant you come in contact with Mr. Moody, at Pickett's he is
                        really the head of the firm,  you will
                        experience the delightful, and unique, I may say, sensation of being in the
                        presence of a cultured, high-bred gentleman. They are most uncommon among
                        shop-keepers in these days. This little Juneo is as common as dirt. He
                        hasn't a shred of good-breeding. Utterly low-class Neapolitan
                        person, I should say at a venture, although I have never been by way of
                        knowing any of the lower class Italians. They must be quite dreadful in
                        their native gutters. Now, Mr. Moody, but you shall see. Really, he is so
                        splendid that one can almost imagine him in the House of Lords, or being
                        privileged to sit down in the presence of the king, or My word, Stuyvesant,
                        what are you scowling at?"
                    "I'm not scowling," growled Stuyvesant, from the
                        little side seat in front of them.
                    "He actually makes me feel sometimes as though I were dirt under his
                        feet," went on Mrs. Smith-Parvis.
                    "Oh, come now, mother, you know I never make you feel anything of
                        the "
                    "I was referring to Mr. Moody, dear."
                    "Oh, well," said he, slightly crestfallen.
                    Miss Emsdale suppressed a desire to giggle. Moody, a footman without the
                        normal supply of aitches; Juneo, a nobleman with countless generations of
                        nobility behind him!
                    The car drew up to the curb on the side street paralleling
                        Pickett's. Another limousine had the place of vantage ahead of
                        them.
                    "Blow your horn, Galpin," ordered Mrs. Smith-Parvis.
                        "They have no right to stand there, blocking the way."
                    
                    "It's Mrs. Millidew's car, madam," said
                        the footman up beside Galpin.
                    "Never mind, Galpin," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis hastily.
                        "We will get out here. It's only a step."
                    Miss Emsdale started. A warm red suffused her cheeks. She had not seen
                        Trotter since that day in Bramble's book-shop. Her heart began to
                        beat rapidly.
                    Trotter was standing on the curb, carrying on a conversation with some one
                        inside the car. He too started perceptibly when his gaze fell upon the third
                        person to emerge from the Smith-Parvis automobile. Almost instantly his face
                        darkened and his tall frame stiffened. He had taken a second look at the
                        first person to emerge. The reply he was in process of making to the
                        occupant of his own car suffered a collapse. It became disjointed,
                        incoherent and finally came to a halt. He was afforded a slight thrill of
                        relief when Miss Emsdale deliberately ignored the hand that was extended to
                        assist her in alighting.
                    Mrs. Millidew, the younger, turned her head to glance at the passing trio.
                        Her face lighted with a slight smile of recognition. The two Smith-Parvises
                        bowed and smiled in return.
                    "Isn't she beautiful?" said Mrs. Smith-Parvis to
                        her son, without waiting to get out of earshot.
                    "Oh, rather," said he, quite as distinctly.
                    "Who is that extremely pretty girl?" inquired Mrs.
                        Millidew, the younger, also quite loudly, addressing no one in particular.
                    Trotter cleared his throat.
                    "Oh, you wouldn't know, of course," she observed.
                    
                    "Go on, Trotter. You were telling me about your family in was it
                        Chester? Your dear old mother and the little sisters. I am very much
                        interested."
                    Trotter looked around cautiously, and again cleared his throat.
                    "It is awfully good of you to be interested in my people,"
                        he said, an uneasy note in his voice. For his life, he could not remember
                        just what he had been telling her in response to her inquiries. The whole
                        thing had been knocked out of his head by the sudden appearance of one who
                        knew that he had no dear old mother in Chester, nor little sisters anywhere
                        who depended largely on him for support!" Chester," he
                        said, rather vaguely. "Yes, to be sure, Chester. Not far from
                        Liverpool, you know, it's where the cathedral is."
                    "Tell me all about them," she persisted, leaning a little
                        closer to the window, an encouraging smile on her carmine lips.
                    In due time the impassive Mr. Moody issued forth from his private office and
                        bore down upon the two matrons, who, having no especial love for each other,
                        were striving their utmost to be cordial without compromising themselves by
                        being agreeable.
                    Mrs. Millidew the elder, arrayed in many colours, was telling Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis about a new masseuse she had discovered, and Mrs. Smith-Parvis
                        was talking freely at the same time about a person named Juneo.
                    Miss Emsdale had drifted over toward the broad show window looking out upon
                        the cross-town street, where Thomas Trotter was visible, out of the corner
                        of her eye. Also the younger Mrs. Millidew.
                    
                    Stuyvesant, sullenly smoking a cigarette, lolled against a show-case across
                        the room, dropping ashes every minute or two into the mouth of a fragile
                        and, for the time being, priceless vase that happened to be conveniently
                        located near his elbow.
                    Mr. Moody adjusted his monocle and eyed his matronly visitors in a most
                        unfeeling way.
                    "Ah, good awfternoon, Mrs. Millidew. Good awfternoon, Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis," he said, and then catching sight of an apparently
                        neglected customer in the offing, beckoned to a smart looking salesman, and
                        said, quite loudly:
                    "See what that young man wants, Proctor."
                    The young man, who happened to be young Mr. Smith-Parvis, started violently,
                        and glared.
                    "Stupid blight-ah!" he said, also quite loudly, and
                        disgustedly chucked his cigarette into the vase, whereupon the salesman, in
                        some horror, grabbed it up and dumped the contents upon the floor.
                    "You shouldn't do that, you know," he said, in a
                        moment of righteous forgetfulness. "That's a
                        peach-blow"
                    "Oh, is it?" snapped Stuyvesant, and
                        walked away.
                    "That is my son, Mr. Moody," explained Mrs. Smith-Parvis
                        quickly. "Poor dear, he hates so to shop with me."
                    "Ah, ah, I see," drawled Mr. Moody. "Your son?
                        Yes, yes." And then, as an afterthought, with a slight elevation of
                        one eyebrow, "Bless my soul, Mrs. Smith-Parvis, you amaze me.
                        It's incredible. You cawn't convince me that you have a
                        son as old as Well, now, really it's a bit thick."
                    
                    "I I'm not spoofing you, Mr. Moody," cried Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis delightedly.
                    His face relaxed slightly. One might have detected the faint, suppressed
                        gleam of a smile in his eyes, but it was so brief, so evanescent that it
                        would be folly to put it down as such.
                    The ensuing five minutes were devoted entirely to manoeuvres on the part of
                        all three. Mrs. Smith-Parvis was trying to shunt Mrs. Millidew on to an
                        ordinary salesman, and Mrs. Millidew was standing her ground, resolute in
                        the same direction. The former couldn't possibly inspect heirlooms
                        under the eye of that old busy-body, nor could the latter resort to cajolery
                        in the effort to obtain a certain needle-point chair at bankrupt figures. As
                        for Mr. Moody, he was splendid. The lordliest duke in all of Britain could
                        not have presented a truer exemplification of lordliness than he. He quite
                        outdid himself. The eighth letter in the alphabet behaved in a most
                        gratifying manner; indeed, he even took chances with it, just to see how it
                        would act if he were not watching it, and not once did it fail him.
                    "But, of course, one never can find anything one wants unless one
                        goes to the really exclusive places, you know," Mrs. Smith-Parvis
                        was saying. "It is a waste of time, don't you
                        think?"
                    "Quate oh, yes, quate," drawled Mr. Moody, in a roving sort
                        of way. That is to say, his interest seemed to be utterly detached, as if
                        nothing that Mrs. Smith-Parvis said really mattered.
                    "Naturally we try to find things in the cheaper places before we
                        come here," went on the lady boldly.
                    
                    "More int'resting," said Mr. Moody, indulgently
                        eyeing a great brass lanthorn that hung suspended over Mrs.
                        Millidew's bonnet, but safely to the left of it, he decided.
                    "I've been looking for something odd and quaint and and you
                        know, of the Queen Anne period, trinkets, you might say, Mr. Moody. What
                        have you in that "
                    "Queen Anne? Oh, ah, yes, to be sure, Queen Anne. Yes, yes. I see.
                        'Pon my soul, Mrs. Smith-Parvis, I fear we haven't
                        anything at all. Most uncommon dearth of Queen Anne material nowadays. We
                        cawn't get a thing. Snapped up in England, of course. I know of
                        some extremely rare pieces to be had in New York, however, and, while I
                        cannot procure them for you myself, I should be charmed to give you a letter
                        to the dealer who has them."
                    "Oh, how kind of you. That is really most gracious of you."
                    "Mr. Juneo, of Juneo & Co., has quite a stock,"
                        interrupted Mr. Moody tolerantly," quite a remarkable collection, I
                        may say. Indeed, nothing finer has been brought to New York in in in
                        "
                    Mr. Moody faltered. His whole manner underwent a swift and peculiar change.
                        His eyes were riveted upon the approaching figure of a young lady. Casually,
                        from time to time, his roving, detached gaze had rested upon her back as she
                        stood near the window. As a back, it did not mean anything to him.
                    But now she was approaching, and a queer, cold little something ran swiftly
                        down his spine. It was Lady Jane Thorne!
                    
                    Smash went his house of cards into a jumbled heap. It collapsed from a lofty
                        height. Lady Jane Thorn!
                    No use trying to lord it over her! She was the real thing! Couldn't
                        put on "lugs" with her, not a bit of it! She knew!
                    His monocle dropped. He tried to catch it. Missed!
                    "My word!" he mumbled, as he stooped over to retrieve it
                        from the rug at his feet. The exertion sent' a ruddy glow to his
                        neck and ears and brow.
                    "Did you break it?" cried Mrs. Millidew.
                    He stuck it in his waist-coat pocket without examination.
                    "This is Miss Emsdale, our governess," said Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis. "She's an English girl, Mr. Moody."
                    "Glad to meet you," stammered Mr. Moody, desperately.
                    "How do you do, Mr. Moody," said Jane, in the most
                        matter-of-fact way.
                    Mr. Moody knew that she was a paid governess. He had known it for many
                        months. But that didn't alter the case. She was the "real
                        thing." He couldn't put on any "side"
                        with her. He couldn't bring himself to it, not if his life depended
                        on it. Not even if she had been a scullery-maid and appeared before him in
                        greasy ginghams. All very well to "stick it on" with these
                        fashionable New Yorkers, but when it came to the daughter of the Earl of
                        Wexham, well, it didn't matter what she was as
                        long as he knew who she was.
                    His mask was off.
                    The change in his manner was so abrupt, so complete,  that his august customers could not fail to notice it.
                        Something was wrong with the poor man! Certainly he was not himself. He
                        looked ill, at any rate, he did not look as well as usual. Heart,
                        that's what it was, flashed through Mrs. Millidew's brain.
                        Mrs. Smith-Parvis took it to be vertigo. Sometimes her husband looked like
                        that when 
                    "Will you please excuse me, ladies, just for a moment or
                        two?" he mumbled, in a most extraordinary voice. "I will
                        go at once and write a note to Mr. Juneo. Make yourselves at 'ome.
                        And and " He shot an appealing glance at Miss Emsdale,
                        "and you too, Miss."
                    In a very few minutes a stenographer came out of the office into which Mr.
                        Moody had disappeared, with a typewritten letter to Mr. Juneo, and the word
                        that Mr. Moody had been taken suddenly ill and begged to be excused. He
                        hoped that they would be so gracious as to allow Mr. Paddock to show them
                        everything they had in stock, and so on.
                    "It was so sudden," said Mrs. Millidew. "I never
                        saw such a change in a man in all my life. Heart, of course. High living,
                        you may be sure. It gets them every time."
                    "I shall run in tomorrow and tell him about Dr. Brodax,"
                        said Mrs. Smith-Parvis firmly. "He ought to see the best man in the
                        city, of course, and no one "
                    "For the Lord's sake, don't let him get into the
                        clutches of that man Brodax," interrupted Mrs. Millidew.
                        "He is "
                    "No, thank you, Mr. Paddock, I sha'n't wait.
                    
                    Another day will do just as well. Come, Miss Emsdale. Good-bye, my dear. Come
                        and see me."
                    "Dr. Brown stands at the very top of the profession as a heart
                        specialist. He "
                    "I've never heard of him," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis
                        icily, and led the way to the sidewalk, her head very high. You could say
                        almost anything you pleased to Mrs. Smith-Parvis about her husband, or her
                        family, or her religion, or even her figure, but you couldn't
                        belittle her doctor. That was lese-majesty. She wouldn't have it.
                    A more or less peaceful expedition came to grief within sixty seconds after
                        its members reached the sidewalk, and in a most astonishing manner.
                    Stuyvesant was in a nasty humour. He had not noticed Thomas Trotter before.
                        Coming upon the tall young man suddenly, after turning the corner of the
                        building, he was startled into an expression of disgust. Trotter was holding
                        open the limousine door for Mrs. Millidew, the elder.
                    Young Mr. Smith-Parvis stopped short and stared in a most offensive manner at
                        Mrs. Millidew's chauffeur.
                    "By gad, you weren't long in getting a job after Carpenter
                        fired you, were you? Fish!"
                    Now, there is no way in the world to recall the word "fish"
                        after it has been uttered in the tone employed by Stuyvesant. Ordinarily it
                        is a most inoffensive word, and signifies something delectable. In French it
                        is poisson, and we who know how to pronounce it say it
                        with pleasure and gusto, quite as we say pomme de terre
                        when we mean potato. If Stuyvesant had said 
                        poisson, the chances are that nothing would have happened.
                        But he didn't. He said fish.
                    No doubt Thomas Trotter was in a bad humour also. He was a very sensible
                        young man, and there was no reason why he should be jealous of Stuyvesant
                        Smith-Parvis. He had it from Miss Emsdale herself that she loathed and
                        despised the fellow. And yet he saw red when she passed him a quarter of an
                        hour before with Stuyvesant at her side. For some time he had been harassed
                        by the thought that if she had not caught sight of him as she left the car,
                        the young man's offer of assistance might not have been spurned. In
                        any event, there certainly was something queer afoot. Why was she driving
                        about with Mrs. Smith-Parvis, and Stuyvesant, as if she
                        were one of the family and not a paid employe?
                    In the twinkling of an eye, Thomas Trotter forgot that he was a chauffeur. He
                        remembered only that he was Lord Erie Carruthers Ethelbert Temple, the
                        grandson of a soldier, the great-grandson of a soldier, and the great-great
                        grandson of a soldier whose father and grandfather had been soldiers before
                        him.
                    Thomas Trotter would have said, and quite properly, too, considering his
                        position; "Quite so, sir."
                    Lord Temple merely put his face a little closer to Stuyvesant's and
                        said, very audibly, very distinctly: "You go to hell!"
                    Stuyvesant fell back a step. He could not believe his ears. The fellow
                        couldn't have said and yet, there was no possible way of making
                        anything else out of it. He had said "You go to
                        hell."
                    Fortunately he had said it in the presence of ladies.  Made bold by the continued presence of at least three ladies,
                        Stuyvesant, assuming that a chauffeur would not dare go so far as a physical
                        retort, snapped his fingers under Trotter's nose and said:
                    "For two cents I'd kick you all over town for
                        that."
                    Miss Emsdale erred slightly in her agitation. She grasped
                        Stuyvesant's arm. Trotter also erred. He thought she was trying to
                        keep Smith-Parvis from carrying out the threat.
                    Mrs. Millidew, the elder, cried out sharply: "What's all
                        this? Trotter, get up on the seat at once. I"
                    Mrs. Millidew, the younger, leaned from the window and patted Trotter on the
                        shoulder. Her eyes were sparkling.
                    "Give it to him, Trotter. Don't mind me!" she
                        cried.
                    Stuyvesant turned to Miss Emsdale. "Don't be alarmed, my
                        dear. I sha'n't do it, you know. Pray compose yourself. I
                        "
                    At that juncture Lord Eric Temple reached out and, with remarkable precision,
                        grasped Stuyvesant's nose between his thumb and forefinger. One
                        sharp twist brought a surprised grunt from the owner of the nose, a second
                        elicited a pained squeak, and the third, pressed upward as well as both to
                        the right and left, resulted in a sharp howl of anguish.
                    The release of his nose was attended by a sudden push that sent Stuyvesant
                        backward two or three steps.
                    "Oh, my God!" he gasped, and felt for his nose. There were
                        tears in his eyes. There would have been 
                        tears in anybody's eyes after those merciless tweaks.
                    Finding his nose still attached, he struck out wildly with both fists, a
                        blind fury possessing him. Even a coward will strike if you pull his nose
                        severely enough. As Trotter remained motionless after the distressing act of
                        Lord Temple, Stuyvesant missed him by a good yard and a half, but managed to
                        connect solidly with the corner of the limousine, barking his knuckles, a
                        circumstance which subsequently provided him with something to substantiate
                        his claim to having planted a "good one" on the
                        blighter's jaw.
                    His hat fell off and rolled still farther away from the redoubtable Trotter,
                        luckily in the direction of the Smith-Parvis car. By the time Stuyvesant
                        retrieved it, after making several clutches in his haste, he was, singularly
                        enough, beyond the petrified figure of his mother.
                    "Call the police! Call the police!" Mrs. Smith-Parvis was
                        whimpering. "Where are the police?"
                    Mrs. Millidew, the elder, cried out sharply: "Hush up!
                        Don't be idiotic! Do you want to attract the police and a crowd and
                        What do you mean, Trotter, by attacking Mr. Smith-Par"
                    "Get out of the way, mother," roared Stuyvesant.
                        "Let me at him! Don't hold me! I'll break his
                        infernal neck Shut up!" His voice sank to a hoarse whisper.
                        "We don't want the police. Shut up, I say! My God,
                        don't make a scene!"
                    "Splendid!" cried Mrs. Millidew, the younger,
                        enthusiastically, addressing herself to Trotter. "Perfectly
                        splendid!"
                    Trotter, himself once more, calmly stepped to the  back of the car to see what, if any, damage Stuyvesant had
                        done to the polished surface!
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis advanced. Her eyes were blazing.
                    "You filthy brute!" she exclaimed.
                    Up to this instant, Miss Emsdale had not moved. She was very white and
                        breathless. Now her eyes flashed ominously.
                    "Don't you dare call him a brute," she cried out.
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis gasped, but was speechless in the face of this amazing
                        defection. Stuyvesant opened his lips to speak, but observing that the
                        traffic policeman at the Fifth Avenue corner was looking with some intensity
                        at the little group, changed his mind and got into the automobile.
                    "Come on!" he called out. "Get in here, both of
                        you. I'll attend to this fellow later on. Come on, I say!"
                    "How dare you speak to me in that manner?" flared Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis, turning from Trotter to the girl. "What do you mean,
                        Miss Emsdale? Are you defending this "
                    "Yes, I am defending him," cried Jane, passionately.
                        "He he didn't do half enough to him."
                    "Good girl!" murmured Trotter, radiant.
                    "That will do!" said Mrs. Smith-Parvis imperiously.
                        "I shall not require your services after today, Miss
                        Emsdale."
                    "Oh, good Lord, mother, don't be a fool," cried
                        Stuyvesant. "Let me straighten this thing out. I "
                    "As you please, madam," said Jane, drawing herself up to
                        her full height.
                    
                    "Drive to Dr. Brodax's, Galpin, as quickly as
                        possible," directed Stuyvesant's mother, and entered the
                        car beside her son.
                    The footman closed the door and hopped up beside the chauffeur. He was very
                        pink with excitement.
                    "Oh, for heaven's sake " began her son furiously,
                        but the closing of the door smothered the rest of the complaint.
                    "You may also take your notice, Trotter," said Mrs.
                        Millidew the elder. "I can't put up with such behaviour as
                        this."
                    "Very good, madam. I'm sorry. I "
                    Miss Emsdale was walking away. He did not finish the sentence. His eyes were
                        following her and they were full of concern.
                    "You may come to me tomorrow, Trotter," said Mrs. Millidew,
                        the younger. "Now, don't glare at me,
                        mother-in-law," she added peevishly. "You've
                        dismissed him, so don't, for heaven's sake, croak about me
                        stealing him away from you."
                    Trotter's employer closed her jaws with a snap, then opened them
                        instantly to exclaim:
                    "No, you don't, my dear. I withdraw the notice, Trotter.
                        You stay on with me. Drop Mrs. Millidew at her place first, and then drive
                        me home. That's all right, Dolly. I don't care if it is
                        out of our way. I wouldn't leave you alone with him for anything in
                        the world."
                    Trotter sighed. Miss Emsdale had turned the corner.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    IN THE FOG
                    MISS EMSDALE did not ask Mrs. Smith-Parvis for a
                        "reference." She dreaded the interview that was set for
                        seven o'clock that evening. The butler had informed her on her
                        return to the house shortly after five that Mrs. Smith-Parvis would see her
                        at seven in the library, after all, instead of in her boudoir, and she was
                        to look sharp about being prompt.
                    The young lady smiled. "It's all one to me, Rogers, the
                        library or the boudoir."
                    "First it was the boudoir, Miss, and then it was the library, and
                        then the boudoir again, and now the library. It seems to be quite settled,
                        however. It's been nearly larf an hour since the last change was
                        made. Shouldn't surprise me if it sticks."
                    "It gives me an hour and a half to get my things together,"
                        said she, much more brightly than he thought possible in one about to be
                        "sacked." "Will you be good enough to order a
                        taxi for me at half-past seven, Rogers?"
                    Rogers stiffened. This was not the tone or the manner of a governess. He had
                        a feeling that he ought to resent it, and yet he suddenly found himself
                        powerless to do so. No one had spoken to him in just that way in fifteen
                        years.
                    "Very good, Miss Emsdale. Seven-thirty." He  went away strangely puzzled, and not a little
                        disgusted with himself.
                    She expected to find that Stuyvesant had carried out his threat to vilify
                        her, and was prepared for a bitter ten minutes with the outraged mistress of
                        the house, who would hardly let her escape without a severe lacing. She
                        would be dismissed without a "character."
                    She packed her boxes and the two or three hand-bags that had come over from
                        London with her. A heightened colour was in her cheeks, and there was a
                        repelling gleam in her blue eyes. She was wondering whether she could keep
                        herself in hand during the tirade. Her temper was a hot one.
                    A not distant Irish ancestor occasionally got loose in her blood and played
                        havoc with the strain inherited from a whole regiment of English forebears.
                        On such occasions, she flared up in a fine Celtic rage, and then for days
                        afterwards was in a penitential mood that shamed the poor old Irish ghost
                        into complete and grovelling subjection.
                    What she saw in the mirror over her dressing-table warned her that if she did
                        not keep a pretty firm grip tonight on the throat of that wild Irishman who
                        had got into the family-tree ages before the twig represented by herself
                        appeared, Mrs. Smith-Parvis was reasonably certain to hear from him. A less
                        captious observer, leaning over her shoulder, would have taken an entirely
                        different view of the reflection. He (obviously he) would have pronounced it
                        ravishing.
                    Promptly at seven she entered the library. To her dismay, Mrs. Smith-Parvis
                        was not alone. Her husband was there, and also Stuyvesant. If her life had
                             depended on it, she could not have
                        conquered the impulse to favour the latter's nose with a rather
                        penetrating stare. A slight thrill of satisfaction shot through her. It did seem to be a trifle red and enlarged.
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis, senior, was nervous. Otherwise he would not have risen from
                        his comfortable chair.
                    "Good evening, Miss Emsdale," he said, in a palliative
                        tone. "Have this chair. Ahem!" Catching a look from his
                        wife, he sat down again, and laughed quite loudly and mirthlessly, no doubt
                        actuated by a desire to put the governess at her case, an effort that left
                        him rather flat and wholly non-essential, it may be said.
                    His wife lifted her lorgnon. She seemed a bit surprised and nonplussed on
                        beholding Miss Emsdale.
                    "Oh, I remember. It is you, of course."
                    Miss Emsdale had the effrontery to smile. "Yes, Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis."
                    Stuyvesant felt of his nose. He did it without thinking, and instantly
                        muttered something under his breath.
                    "We owe you, according to my calculations, fifty-five dollars and
                        eighty-two cents," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis, abruptly consulting a
                        tablet. "Seventeen days in this month. Will you be good enough to
                        go over it for yourself? I do not wish to take advantage of you."
                    "I sha'n't be exacting," said Miss
                        Emsdale, a wave of red rushing to her brow. "I am content to accept
                        your "
                    "Be good enough to figure it up, Miss Emsdale," insisted
                        the other coldly. "We must have no future  recriminations. Thirty-one days in this month. Thirty-one into
                        one hundred goes how many times?"
                    "I beg pardon," said the girl, puzzled.
                        "Thirty-one into one hundred?"
                    "Can't you do sums? It's perfectly simple. Any
                        school child could do it in a in a jiffy."
                    "Quite simple," murmured her husband. "I worked it
                        out for Mrs. Smith-Parvis in no time at all. Three dollars and twenty-two
                        and a half cents a day. Perfectly easy, if you "
                    "I am sure it is quite satisfactory," said Miss Emsdale
                        coldly.
                    "Very well. Here is a check for the amount, said Mrs. Smith-Parvis,
                        laying the slip of paper on the end of the library table. "And now,
                        Miss Emsdale, I feel constrained to tell you how gravely disappointed I am
                        in you. For half-a-year I have laboured under the delusion that you were a
                        lady, and qualified to have charge of two young and innocent "
                    "Oh, Lord," groaned Stuyvesant, fidgeting in his chair.
                    " young and innocent girls. I find, however, that you
                        haven't the first instincts of a lady. I daresay it is too much to
                        expect." She sighed profoundly. "I know something about
                        the lower classes in London, having been at one time interested in
                        settlement work there in connection with Lady Bannistell's
                        committee, and I am aware that too much should not be expected of them. That
                        is to say, too much in the way of er delicacy. Still, I thought you might
                        prove to be an exception. I have learned my lesson. I shall in the future
                        engage only German governesses. From time to time I  have observed little things in you that disquieted me, but I
                        overlooked them because you appeared to be earnestly striving to overcome
                        the handicap placed upon you at birth. For example, I have found cigarette
                        stubs in your room when I "
                    "Oh, I say, mother," broke in Stuyvesant; "cut it
                        out."
                    "My dear!"
                    "You'd smoke 'em yourself if father
                        didn't put up such a roar about it. Lot of guff about your
                        grandmothers turning over in their graves. I don't see anything
                        wrong in a woman smoking cigarettes. Besides, you may be accusing Miss
                        Emsdale unjustly. What proof have you that the stubs were hers?"
                    "I distinctly said that I found them in her room," said
                        Mrs. Smith-Parvis icily. "I don't know how they got
                        there."
                    "Circumstantial evidence," retorted Stuyvie, an evil twist
                        at one corner of his mouth. "Doesn't prove that she smoked
                        'em does it?" He met Miss Emsdale's burning gaze
                        for an instant, and then looked away. "Might have been the
                        housekeeper. She smokes."
                    "It was not the housekeeper," said Jane quietly.
                        "I smoke."
                    "We are digressing," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis sternly.
                        "There are other instances of your lack of refinement, Miss
                        Emsdale, but I shall not recite them. Suffice to say, I deeply deplore the
                        fact that my children have been subject to contamination for so long. I am
                        afraid they have acquired "
                    Jane had drawn herself up haughtily. She interrupted her employer.
                    
                    "Be good enough, Mrs. Smith-Parvis, to come to the point,"
                        she said. "Have you nothing more serious to charge me with than
                        smoking? Out with it! Let's have the worst."
                    "How dare you speak to me in that My goodness!" She half
                        started up from her chair. "What have you been up
                        to? Drinking? Or some low affair with the butler? Good heavens, have I been
                        harbouring a "
                    "Don't get so excited, momsey," broke in
                        Stuyvesant, trying to transmit a message of encouragement to Miss Emsdale by
                        means of sundry winks and frowns and cautious head-shakings. "Keep
                        your hair on."
                    "My my hair?" gasped his mother.
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis got up. "Stuyvesant, you'd better
                        retire," he said, noisily. "Remember, sir, that you are
                        speaking to your mother. It came out at the time of her illness, when we
                        were so near to losing her, and you "
                    "Keep still, Philander," snapped Mrs. Smith-Parvis, very
                        red in the face. "It came in again, thicker than before,"
                        she could not help explaining. "And don't be absurd,
                        Stuyvesant. This is my affair. Please do not interfere again. I What was I
                        saying?"
                    "Something about drinking and the butler, Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis," said Jane, drily. It was evident that Stuyvesant had
                        not carried tales to his mother. She would not have to defend herself
                        against a threatened charge. Her sense of humour was at once restored.
                    "Naturally I cannot descend to the discussion of anything so
                        perfectly vile. Your conduct this afternoon is sufficient ah, sufficient
                        unto the day. I  am forced to dismiss you
                        without a reference. Furthermore, I consider it my duty to protect other
                        women as unsuspecting as I have been. You are in no way qualified to have
                        charge of young and well-bred girls. No apology is desired," she
                        hastily declared, observing symptoms of protest in the face of the
                        delinquent; "so please restrain yourself. I do not care to hear a
                        single word of apology, or any appeal to be retained. You may go now, my
                        girl. Spare us the tears. I am not turning you out into the streets tonight.
                        You may remain until tomorrow morning."
                    "I am going tonight," said Jane, quite white, with
                        suppressed anger.
                    "It isn't necessary," said the other, loftily.
                    "Where are you going?" inquired Mr. Smith-Parvis, senior,
                        fumbling with his nose-glasses. "Have you any friends in the
                        city?"
                    Miss Emsdale ignored the question. She picked up the check and folded it
                        carefully.
                    "I should like to say good-bye to the to Eudora and
                        Lucille," she said, with an effort.
                    "That is out of the question," said Mrs. Smith-Parvis.
                    Jane deliberately turned her back upon Mrs. Smith-Parvis and moved toward the
                        door. It was an eloquent back. Mrs. Smith-Parvis considered it positively
                        insulting.
                    "Stop!" she cried out. "Is that the way to leave a
                        room, Miss Emsdale? Please remember who and what you are. I can not permit a
                        servant to be insolent to me."
                    "Oh, come now, Angela, dear," began Mr. Smith-Parvis,  uncomfortably. "Seems to me she
                        walks properly enough. What's the matter with her There,
                        she's gone! I can't see what "
                    "You would think the hussy imagines herself to be the Queen of
                        England," sputtered Mrs. Smith-Parvis angrily.
                        "I've never seen such airs."
                    The object of her derision mounted the stairs and entered her bed-chamber on
                        the fourth floor. Her steamer-trunk and her bags were nowhere in sight. A
                        wry little smile trembled on her lips.
                    "Must you be going?" she said to herself, whimsically, as
                        she adjusted her hat in front of the mirror.
                    There was no one to say good-bye to her, except Peasley, the footman. He
                        opened the big front door for her, and she passed out into the foggy March
                        night. A fine mist blew upon her hot face.
                    "Good-bye, Miss," said Peasley, following her to the top of
                        the steps.
                    "Good-bye, Peasley. Thank you for taking down my things."
                    "You'll find 'em in the taxi," said he.
                        He peered hard ahead and sniffed. "A bit thick, ain't it?
                        Reminds one of London, Miss." He referred to the fog.
                    At the bottom of the steps she encountered the irrepressible and somewhat
                        jubilant scion of the house. His soft hat was pulled well down over his
                        eyes, and the collar of his overcoat was turned up about his ears. He
                        promptly accosted her, his voice lowered to an eager, confident undertone.
                    "Don't cry, little girl," he said. "It
                        isn't going to be bad at all. I Oh, I say, now, listen to
                        me!"
                    She tried to pass, but he placed himself directly in  her path. The taxi-cab loomed up vaguely through the screen of
                        fog. At the corner below an electric street lamp produced the effect of a
                        huge, circular vignette in the white mist. The raucous barking of automobile
                        horns, and the whir of engines came out of the street, and shadowy
                        will-o'-the-wisp lights scuttled through the yielding, opaque wall.
                    "Be good enough to let me pass," she cried, suddenly
                        possessed of a strange fear.
                    "Everything is all right," he said. "I'm
                        not going to see you turned out like this without a place to go "
                    "Will you compel me to call for help?" she said, backing
                        away from him.
                    "Help? Why, hang it all, can't you see that I'm
                        trying to help you? It was a rotten thing for mother to do. Poor little
                        girl, you sha'n't go wandering around the streets looking
                        for Why, I'd never forgive myself if I didn't do something
                        to offset the cruel thing she's done to you tonight.
                        Haven't I told you all along you could depend on me? Trust me,
                        little girl. I'll "
                    Suddenly she blazed out at him.
                    "I see it all! That is your taxi, not mine! So
                        that is your game, is it? You beast!"
                    "Don't be a damn' fool," he grated.
                        "I ought to be sore as a crab at you, but I'm not. You
                        need me now, and I'm going to stand by you. I'll forgive
                        all that happened today, but you've got to "
                    She struck his hand from her arm, and dashed out to the curb.
                    "Driver!" she cried out. "If you are a man you
                        will protect me from this "
                    
                    "Hop in, Miss," interrupted the driver from his seat.
                        "I've got all your bags and things up but, What's
                        that you're saying?"
                    "I shall not enter this cab," she said resolutely.
                        "If you are in the pay of this man "
                    "I was sent here in answer to a telephone call half an hour ago.
                        That's all I know about it. What's the row?"
                    "There is no row," said Stuyvesant, coming up.
                        "Get in, Miss Emsdale. I'm through. I've done my
                        best to help you."
                    But she was now thoroughly alarmed. She sensed abduction.
                    "No! Stay on your box, my man! Don't get down. I shall walk
                        to my "
                    "Go ahead, driver. Take those things to the address I just gave
                        you," said Stuyvesant. "We'll be along
                        later."
                    "I knew! I knew!" she cried out. In a flash she was running
                        down the sidewalk toward the corner.
                    He followed her a few paces and then stopped, cursing softly.
                    "Hey!" called out the driver, springing to the sidewalk.
                        "What's all this? Getting me in wrong, huh?
                        That's what the little roll of bills was for, eh? Well, guess
                        again! Get out of the way, you, or I'll bat you one over the
                        bean."
                    In less time than it takes to tell it, he had whisked the trunk from the
                        platform of the taxi and the three bags from the interior.
                    "I ought to beat you up anyhow," he grunted.  "The Parkingham Hotel, eh? Fine
                        little place, that! How much did you say was in this roll?"
                    "Never mind. Give it back to me at once or I'll
                        I'll call the police."
                    "Go ahead! Call your head off. Good night!"
                    Ten seconds later, Stuyvesant alone stood guard over the scattered effects on
                        the curb. A tail-light winked blearily at him for an additional second or
                        two, the taxi chortled disdainfully, and seemed to grind its teeth as it
                        joined the down-town ghosts.
                    "Blighter!" shouted Stuyvesant, and urged by a sudden sense
                        of alarm, strode rapidly away, not in the wake of Miss Emsdale nor toward
                        the house from which she had been banished, but diagonally across the
                        street. A glance in the direction she had taken revealed no sign of her, but
                        the sound of excited voices reached his ear. On the opposite sidewalk he
                        slowed down to a walk, and peering intently into the fog, listened with all
                        his ears for the return of the incomprehensible governess, accompanied by a
                        patrolman!
                    A most amazing thing had happened to Lady Jane. At the corner below she
                        bumped squarely into a pedestrian hurrying northward.
                    "I'm sorry," exclaimed the pedestrian. He did not
                        say "excuse me" or "I beg pardon."
                    Jane gasped. "Tom Mr. Trotter!"
                    "Jane!" cried the man in surprise. "I say,
                        what's up? 'Gad, you're trembling like a
                        leaf."
                    She tried to tell him.
                    "Take a long breath," he suggested gently, as the words
                        came swiftly and disjointedly from her lips.
                    
                    She did so, and started all over again. This time he was able to understand
                        her.
                    "Wait! Tell me the rest later on," he interrupted.
                        "Come along! This looks pretty ugly to me. By gad, I I believe he
                        was planning to abduct you or something as "
                    "I must have a policeman," she protested, holding back.
                        "I was looking for one when you came up."
                    "Nonsense! We don't need a bobby. I can take care of
                        "
                    "But that man will make off with my bags."
                    "We'll see," he cried, and she was swept along up
                        the street, running to keep pace with his prodigious strides. He had linked
                        his arm through hers.
                    They found her effects scattered along the edge of the sidewalk. Trotter
                        laughed, but it was not a good-humoured laugh.
                    "Skipped!" he grated. "I might have known it. Now,
                        let me think. What is the next, the best thing to do? Go up there and ring
                        that doorbell and "
                    "No! You are not to do that. Sit down here beside me. My my knees
                        are frightfully shaky. So silly of them. But I I really it was quite a shock
                        I had, Mr. Trotter."
                    "Better call me Tom, for the present at least," he
                        suggested, sitting down beside her on the trunk.
                    "What a strange coincidence," she murmured. There was not
                        much room on the trunk for two. He sat quite on one end of it.
                    "You mean, sitting there?" he inquired, blankly.
                    "No. Your turning up as you did, out of a clear sky."
                    
                    "I shouldn't call it clear," said he, suddenly
                        diffident. "Thick as a blanket."
                    "It was queer, though, wasn't it?"
                    "Not a bit. I've been walking up and down past this house
                        for twenty minutes at least. We were bound to meet. Sit still. I'll
                        keep an eye out for an empty taxi. The first thing to do is to see that you
                        get safely down to Mrs. Sparflight's."
                    "How did you know I was to go there?" she demanded.
                    "She told me," said he bluntly.
                    "She wasn't to tell any one at present." She
                        peered closely, at the side of his face.
                    He abruptly changed the subject. "And then I'll come back
                        here and wait till he ventures out. I'm off till nine
                        o'clock. I sha'n't pull his nose this
                        time."
                    "Please explain," she insisted, clutching at his arm as he
                        started to arise. "Did she send you up here, Mr. Trotter?"
                    "No, she didn't," said he, almost gruffly, and
                        stood up to hail an approaching automobile. "Can't see a
                        thing," he went on. "We'll just have to stop
                        'em till we catch one that isn't engaged. Taxi?"
                        he shouted.
                    "No!" roared a voice from the shroud of mist.
                    "The butler telephoned for one, I am sure," said she.
                        "He must have been sent away before I came downstairs."
                    "Don't think about it. You'll get yourself all
                        wrought up and and Everything's all right, now, Lady Jane, I should
                        say Miss "
                    "Call me Jane," said she softly.
                    
                    "You you don't mind?" he cried, and sat down
                        beside her again. The trunk seemed to have increased in size. At any rate
                        there was room to spare at the end.
                    "Not not in the least," she murmured.
                    He was silent for a long time. "Would you mind calling me Eric, just
                        once?" he said at last, wistfully. His voice was very low.
                        "I I'm rather homesick for the sound of my own name,
                        uttered by one of my own people."
                    "Oh, you poor dear boy!"
                    "Say 'Eric,'" he pleaded.
                    "Eric," she half-whispered, suddenly shy.
                    He drew a long, deep breath, and again was silent for a long time. Both of
                        them appeared to have completely forgotten her plight.
                    "We're both a long, long way from home, Jane," he
                        said.
                    "Yes, Eric."
                    "Odd that we should be sitting here like this, on a trunk, on the
                        sidewalk, in a fog."
                    "The 'two orphans,' " she said, with
                        feeble attempt at sprightliness.
                    "People passing by within a few yards of us and yet we
                        we're quite invisible." There was a thrill in his voice.
                    "Almost as if we were in London, Eric, lovely black old
                        London."
                    Footsteps went by in the fog in front of them, automobiles slid by behind
                        them, tooting their unheard horns.
                    
                    "Oh, Jane, I I can't help it," he whispered in her
                        ear, and his arm went round her shoulders. "I I love you
                        so."
                    She put her hand up to his cheek and held it there.
                    "I I know it, Eric," she said, ever so softly.
                    It may have been five minutes, or ten minutes even so long as half an hour.
                        There is no way to determine the actual lapse of time, or consciousness,
                        that followed her declaration. The patrolman who came up and stopped in
                        front of them, peering hard at the dense, immobile mass that had attracted
                        his attention for the simple reason that it wasn't there when he
                        passed on his uptown round, couldn't have thrown any light on the
                        question. He had no means of knowing just when it began.
                    "Well, what's all this?" he demanded suspiciously.
                    Jane sighed, and disengaged herself. Trotter stood up, confronting the
                        questioner.
                    "We're waiting for a taxi," he said.
                    "What's this? A trunk?" inquired the officer,
                        tapping the object with his night-stick.
                    "It is," said Trotter.
                    "Out of one of these houses along here?" He described a
                        half-circle with his night-stick.
                    "Right in front of you."
                    "That's the Smith-Parvis house. They've got a
                        couple of cars, my bucko. What you givin' me? Whadda you mean
                        taxi?"
                    "She happens not to be one of the family. The courtesy of the port
                        is not extended to her, you see." "Hired girl?"
                    
                    "In a way. I say, officer, be a good fellow. Keep your eye peeled
                        for a taxi as you go along and send it up for us. She had one ordered, but
                        well, you can see for yourself. It isn't here."
                    "That's as plain as the nose on your face. I guess
                        I'll just step up to the door and see if it's all right.
                        Stay where you are. Looks queer to me."
                    "Oh, it isn't necessary to inquire, officer,"
                        broke in Jane nervously. "You have my word for it that
                        it's all right."
                    "Oh, I have, have I? Fine! And what if them bags and things is
                        filled with silver and God knows what? You don't "
                    "Go ahead and inquire," said Trotter, pressing her arm
                        encouragingly. "Ask the butler if he didn't call a cab for
                        Miss Emsdale,and also ask him why in thunder it isn't
                        here."
                    The patrolman hesitated. "Who are you," he asked, stepping
                        a little closer to Trotter.
                    "I am this young lady's fiance," said Trotter,
                        with dignity.
                    "Her what?"
                    "Her steady," said Trotter.
                    The policeman laughed, good-naturedly, to their relief.
                    "Oh, well, that being the case," said he,
                        and started away. "Excuse me for buttin' in."
                    "Sure," said Trotter amiably. "If you see a taxi,
                        old man."
                    "Leave it to me," came back from the fog.
                    Jane nestled close to her tall young man. His arm was about her.
                    
                    "Wasn't he perfectly lovely?" she murmured.
                    "Everything is perfectly lovely," said he, vastly
                        reassured. He had taken considerable risk with the word
                        "fiance."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    NOT CLOUDS ALONE HAVE LININGS
                    THE weather turned off warm. The rise in the temperature may have been
                        responsible for the melting of Princess Mariana Theresa Sebastano Michelini
                        Celestine di Pavesi's heart, or it may have sharply revealed to her
                        calculating mind the prospect of a long and profitless season in cold
                        storage for Prince de Bosky's fur-lined coat. In any event, she
                        notified him by post to call for his coat and take it away with him.
                    The same post brought a letter from the Countess du Bara advising him that
                        her brother-in-law, who conducted an all-night cafe just off Broadway in the
                        very heart of the thriftless district, had been compelled to dismiss the
                        leader of his far-famed Czech orchestra, and that she had recommended him
                        for the vacancy. He would have to hurry, however.
                    In a postscript, she hoped he wouldn't mind wearing a red coat.
                    The Countess du Bara was of the Opera, where she was known as Mademoiselle
                        Belfort and occupied a fairly prominent position in the front row of chorus
                        sopranos. Some day she was to make her debut as a principal. The Director of
                        the Opera had promised her that, and while she regarded his promise as being
                        as good as gold, it was, unfortunately, far more elastic, as may be gathered
                        from the fact that it already had  stretched
                        over three full seasons and looked capable of still further extension
                        without being broken.
                    But that is neither here nor there. It is only necessary to state that the
                        Countess, being young and vigorous and satisfactorily endowed with good
                        looks, was not without faith in the promises of man. In return for the
                        Director's faith in her, she was one day going to make him famous
                        as the discoverer of Corinne Bel-fort. For the moment, her importance, so
                        far as this narrative is concerned, rests on the fact that her
                        brother-in-law conducts a caf and had named his youngest daughter Corinne, a
                        doubtful compliment in view of his profane preference for John or even
                        George. He was an American and had five daughters.
                    De Bosky was ecstatic. Luck had turned. He was confident, even before he
                        ventured to peer out of his single little window, that the sun was shining
                        brightly and that birds were singing somewhere, if not in the heart of the
                        congested East Side. And sure enough the sun was shining, and hurdy-gurdies
                        were substituting for bobolinks, and the air was reeking of spring. A little
                        wistfully he regretted that the change had not come when he needed the
                        overcoat to shield his shivering body, and when the
                        "opportunity" would have insured an abundance of meat and
                        drink, to say nothing of a couple of extra blankets, but why lament?
                    There was a sprightliness in his gait, a gleam in his eyes, and a cheery word
                        on his lips as he forged his way through the suddenly alive streets, and
                        made his way to the Subway station. This morning he would not walk. There
                        was something left of the four dollars he had earned the week before
                        shovelling snow into the  city's
                        wagons. True, his hands were stiff and blistered, but all that would respond
                        to the oil of affluence. There was no time to lose. She had said in the
                        postscript that he would have to hurry.
                    Two hours later he burst excitedly into the bookshop of J. Bramble and
                        exclaimed:
                    "And now, my dear, good friend, I shall soon be able to return to
                        you the various amounts you have advanced me from time to time, out of the
                        goodness of your heart, and I shall what do I say? blow you off to a banquet
                        that even now, in contemplation, makes my own mouth water, and I shall
                        "
                    "Bless my soul," gasped Mr. Bramble. "Would you
                        mind saying all of it in English? What is the ex-citement?
                        Just a moment, please." The latter to a mild-looking gentleman who
                        was poising a book in one hand and inquiring the price with the uplifting of
                        his eyebrows.
                    De Bosky rapped three or four times on the violin case tucked under his arm.
                    "After all the years and all the money I spent in mastering this
                        But, you are busy, my good friend. Pray forgive the interruption "
                    "What has happened?" demanded Mr. Bramble, uneasily.
                    "I have fallen into a fortune. Twenty-five dollars a week,
                        so!" he said whimsically. "Also I shall restore the five
                        dollars that Trotter forced me to take, and the odd amounts M. Mirabeau has
                        Yes, yes, my friend, I am radiant. I am to lead the new orchestra at
                        Spangler's caf. I have concluded negotiations with ah, how quickly
                        it was done! And I  approached him with fear
                        and trembling. I would have played for him, so that he might judge, but not
                        He said 'No, no!' It was not necessary. Corinne's
                        word was enough for him. You do not know Corinne. She is beautiful. She is
                        an artiste! One day she will be on the lips of every one. Go! Be quick! The
                        gentleman is departing. You will have lost a a sale, and all through the
                        fault of me. I beseech you, catch him quick. Do not permit me to bring you
                        bad luck. Au revoir! I go at once to acquaint M. Mirabeau with au
                        revoir!"
                    He dashed up the back stairway, leaving Mr. Bramble agape.
                    "It was only a ten-cent book," he muttered to the back of
                        the departing customer. "And, besides, you do not belong to the
                        union," he shouted loudly, addressing himself to de Bosky, who
                        stopped short on the stairs.
                    "The union?"
                    "The union will not permit you to play," said the
                        bookseller, mounting the steps. "It will permit you to starve but
                        not to play."
                    "But the man the man he said it was because I do not belong to the
                        union that he engages me. He says the union holds him, up, what? So! He
                        discharge the union all of them. We form a new orchestra. Then we
                        don't give a damn, he say. Not a tinkle damn! And Corinne say also
                        not a tinkle damn! And I say not a tinkle damn! Voila!"
                    
                    "God bless my soul," said Mr. Bramble, shaking his head.
                    M. Mirabeau rejoiced. He embraced the little musician,  he pooh-hooed Mr. Bramble's calamitous regard for the
                        union, and he wound up by inviting de Bosky to stop for lunch with him.
                    "No, no, impossible," exclaimed de Bosky, feeling in his
                        waistcoat pocket absent-mindedly, and then glancing at a number of M.
                        Mirabeau's clocks in rotation; "no, I have not the time.
                        Your admirable clocks urge me to be off. See! I am to recover the overcoat
                        of my excellent friend, the safe-blower. This letter, see! Mrs. Moses
                        Jacobs. She tells me to come and take it away with me. Am I not the lucky
                        dog, no, no! I mean am I not the lucky star? I must be off. She may change
                        her mind. She "
                    "Mon dieu! I'd let her change it if I were you,"
                        cried M. Mirabeau. "I call it the height of misfortune to possess a
                        fur coat on a day like this. One might as well rejoice over a linen coat in
                        mid-winter. You are excited! Calm yourself. A bit of cold tongue, and a
                        salad, and "
                    "Au revoir!" sang out de Bosky from the top of the steps.
                        "And remember! I shall repay you within the fortnight, monsieur. I
                        promise! Ah, it is a beautiful, a glorious day!"
                    The old Frenchman dashed to the landing and called down after his speeding
                        guest:
                    "Fetch the coat with you to luncheon. I shall order some moth-balls,
                        and after we've stuffed it full of them, we'll put the
                        poor thing away for a long, long siesta. It shall be like the anaconda. I
                        have a fine cedar chest "
                    But Mr. Bramble was speaking from the bottom of the steps.
                    
                    "And the unfeeling brutes may resort to violence. They often do.
                        They have been known to inflict serious injury upon "
                    "Tonight I shall play at Spangler's," cried de
                        Bosky, slapping his chest. "In a red coat, and I shall not speak
                        the English language. I am the recent importation from Budapesth. So! I am
                        come especially to direct the orchestra at great expense! In big letters on
                        the menu card it shall be printed that I am late of the Royal Hungarian
                        Orchestra, and at the greatest expense have I been secured. The newspapers
                        shall say that I came across the ocean in a special steamer, all at Monsieur
                        Spangler's expense. I and my red coat! So! Come tonight, my friend.
                        Come and hear the great de Bosky in his little red coat, and "
                    "Do not forget that you are to return for luncheon," sang
                        out M. Mirabeau from the top of the stairs.
                    There were tears in de Bosky's eyes. "God bless you
                        both," he cried. "But for you I should have starved to
                        death, as long ago as last week. God bless you!"
                    His frail body swayed a little as he made his way down the length of the
                        shop. Commanding all his strength of will, he squared his shoulders and
                        stiffened his trembling knees, but not soon enough to delude the observing
                        Mr. Bramble, who hurried after him, peering anxiously through his
                        horn-rimmed spectacles.
                    "It is just like you foreigners," he said, overtaking the
                        violinist near the door, and speaking with some energy. "Just like
                        you, I say, to forget to eat breakfast when you are excited. You did not
                        have a bite of breakfast, now did you? Up and out, all excited and  eager, forgetting everything but I say,
                        Mirabeau, lend a hand! He is ready to drop. God bless my soul! Brace up,
                        your highness, I should say old chap brace up! Damme, sir, what possessed
                        you to refuse our invitation to dine with us last night? And it was the
                        third time within the week. Answer me that, sir!"
                    De Bosky sat weakly, limply, pathetically, before the two old men. They had
                        led him to a chair at the back of the shop. Both were regarding him with
                        justifiable severity. He smiled wanly as he passed his hand over his moist,
                        pallid brow.
                    "You are poor men. Why, why should I become a charge upon
                        you?"
                    "Mon dieu!" sputtered M. Mirabeau, lifting his arms on high
                        and shaking his head in absolute despair, despair, you may be sure, over a
                        most unaccountable and never-to-be-forgotten moment in which he found
                        himself utterly and hopelessly without words.
                    Mr. Bramble suddenly rammed a hand down into the pocket of his ancient
                        smoking-coat, and fished out a huge, red, glistening apple.
                    "Here! Eat this!"
                    De Bosky shook his head. His smile broadened.
                    "No, thank you. I I do not like apples."
                    The bookseller was aghast. Moreover, pity and alarm rendered him singularly
                        inept in the choice of a reply to this definite statement.
                    "Take it home to the children," he pleaded, with the best
                        intention in the world.
                    By this time, M. Mirabeau had found his tongue. He took the situation in
                        hand. With tact and an infinite 
                        understanding, he astonished the matter-of-fact Mr. Bramble by appearing to
                        find something amusing in the plight of their friend. He made light of the
                        whole affair. Mr. Bramble, who could see no farther than the fact that the
                        poor fellow was starving, was shocked. It certainly wasn't a thing
                        one should treat as a joke, and here was the old simpleton chuckling and
                        grinning like a lunatic when he should be 
                    Lunatic! Mr. Bramble suddenly went cold to the soles of his feet. A horrified
                        look came into his eyes. Could it be possible that something had snapped in
                        the old Frenchman's but M. Mirabeau was now addressing him instead
                        of the smiling de Bosky.
                    "Come, come!" he was shouting merrily.
                        "We're not following de Bosky to the grave. He is not even
                        having a funeral. Cheer up! Mon dieu, such a face!"
                    Mr. Bramble grew rosy. "Blooming rubbish," he snorted,
                        still a trifle apprehensive.
                    The clock-maker turned again to de Bosky. "Come upstairs at once. I
                        shall myself fry eggs for you, and bacon, nice and crisp, and my coffee is
                        not the worst in the world, my friend. His is abominable.
                        And toast, hot and buttery,ah, I am not surprised that your mouth
                        waters!"
                    "It isn't my mouth that is watering," said de
                        Bosky, wiping his eyes.
                    "Any fool could see that," said Mr. Bramble, scowling at
                        the maladroit Mirabeau.
                    It was two o'clock when Prince Waldemar de Bosky took his departure
                        from the hospitable home of the two old men, and, well-fortified in body as
                        well as in  spirit, moved upon the stronghold
                        of Mrs. Moses Jacobs.
                    The chatelaine of "The Royal Exchange. M. Jacobs,
                        Proprietor," received him with surprising cordiality.
                    "Well, well!" she called out cheerily as he approached the
                        "desk." "I thought you'd never get here.
                        I been waitin' since nine o'clock."
                    Her dark, heavy face bore signs of a struggle to overcome the set, implacable
                        expression that avarice and suspicion had stamped upon it in the course of a
                        long and resolute abstinence from what we are prone to call the milk of
                        human kindness. She was actually trying to beam as she leaned across the
                        gem-laden showcase and extended her coarse, unlovely hand to the visitor.
                    "I am sorry," said he, shaking hands with her. "I
                        have been extremely busy. Besides, on a hot day like this, I could get along
                        very nicely without a fur coat, Mrs. Jacobs."
                    "Sure!" said she. "It sure is hot today. You ought
                        to thank God you ain't as fat as I am. It's awful on fat
                        people. Well, wasn't you surprised?"
                    "It was most gracious of you, Mrs. Jacobs," he said with
                        dignity. "I should have come in at once to express my appreciation
                        of your "
                    "Oh, that's all right. Don't mention it.
                        You're a decent little feller, de Bosky, and I've got a
                        heart, although most of these mutts around here don't think so.
                        Yes, sir, I meant it when I said you could tear up the pawn ticket and take
                        the coat with the best wishes of yours truly."
                    
                    "Spoken like a lady," said he promptly. He was fanning
                        himself with his hat.
                    "Mind you, I don't ask you for a penny. The slate is clean.
                        There's the coat, layin' over there on that counter. Take
                        it along. No one can ever say that I'd let a fellow-creature freeze
                        to death for the sake of a five-dollar bill. No, sir! With the compliments
                        of 'The Royal Exchange,' if you care to put it that
                        way."
                    "But I cannot permit you to cancel my obligation, Mrs. Jacobs. I
                        shall hand you the money inside of a fortnight. I thank you, however, for
                        the generous impulse "
                    "Cut it out," she interrupted genially. "Nix on
                        the sentiment stuff. I'm in a good humour. Don't spoil it
                        by tryin' to be polite. And don't talk about
                        handin' me anything. I won't take it."
                    "In that case, Mrs. Jacobs, I shall be obliged to leave the coat
                        with you," he said stiffly.
                    She stared. "You mean, you won't accept it from
                        me?"
                    "I borrowed money on it. I can say no more, madam.
                    "Well, I'll be " She extended her hand again, a
                        look of genuine pleasure in her black eyes. "Shake hands again,
                        Prince de Bosky. I I understand."
                    "And I I think I understand, Princess," said he, grasping
                        the woman's hand.
                    "I hope you do," said she huskily. "I I just
                        didn't know how to go about it, that's all. Ever since
                        that day you were in here to see me, that bitterly cold day, I've
                        been trying to think of a way to  And so I
                        waited till it turned so hot that you'd know I wasn't
                        trying to do it out of charity You do understand,
                        don't you, Prince?"
                    "Perfectly," said he, very soberly.
                    "I feel better than I've felt in a good long
                        time," she said, drawing a long breath.
                    "That's the way we all feel sometimes," said he,
                        smiling. "No doubt it's the sun," he added.
                        "We haven't seen much of it lately."
                    "Quit your kiddin'," she cried, donning her mask
                        again and relapsing into the vernacular of the district.
                    He bore the coat in triumph to the work-shop of M. Mirabeau, and loudly
                        called for moth-balls as he mounted the steps.
                    "I jest, good friend," he explained, as the old Frenchman
                        laid aside his tools and started for the shelves containing a vast
                        assortment of boxes and packages. "Time enough for all that. At
                        four o'clock I am due at Spangler's for a rehearsal of the
                        celebrated Royal Hungarian Orchestra, imported at great expense from
                        Budapesth. I leave the treasure in your custody. Au revoir!" He had
                        thrown the coat on the end of the work bench.
                    "You will return for dinner," was M. Mirabeau's
                        stern reminder. "A pot roast tonight, Bramble has announced. We
                        will dine at six, since you must report at seven."
                    "In my little red coat," sang out de Bosky blithely.
                    "Mon dieu!" exclaimed the Frenchman, in dismay, running his
                        fingers over the lining of the coat. "They are already at work. The
                        moths! See! Ah, le diable! They have devoured "
                    
                    "What!" cried de Bosky, snatching up the coat.
                    "The arm pits and ah, the seams fall apart! One could thrust his
                        hand into the hole they have made. Too late!" he groaned.
                        "They have ruined it, my friend."
                    De Bosky leaned against the bench, the picture of distress. "What
                        will my friend, the safe-blower, say to this? What will he think of me for
                        "
                    "Now we know how the estimable Mrs. Jacobs came to have softening of
                        the heart," exploded M. Mirabeau, pulling at his long whiskers.
                    Mr. Bramble, abandoning the shop downstairs, shuffled into the room.
                    "Did I hear you say 'moths'?" he
                        demanded, consternation written all over his face. "For
                        God's sake, don't turn them loose in the house.
                        They'Il be into everything "
                    "What is this?" cried de Bosky, peering intently between
                        the crumbling edges of the rent, which widened hopelessly as he picked at it
                        with nervous fingers.
                    Stitched securely inside the fur at the point of the shoulder was a thin
                        packet made of what at one time must have been part of a rubber rain-coat.
                        The three men stared at it with interest.
                    "Padding," said Mr. Bramble.
                    "Rubbish," said M. Mirabeau, referring to Mr.
                        Bramble's declaration. He was becoming excited. Thrusting a
                        keen-edged knife into de Bosky's hand, he said: "Remove it
                        but with care, with care!"
                    A moment later de Bosky held the odd little packet in his hand.
                    
                    "Cut the threads," said Mr. Bramble, readjusting his big
                        spectacles. "It is sewed at the ends."
                    The old bookseller was the first of the stupefied men to speak after the
                        contents of the rubber bag were revealed to view.
                    "God bless my soul!" he gasped.
                    Bank notes,many of them, lay in de Bosky's palm.
                    Almost mechanically he began to count them. They were of various
                        denominations, none smaller than twenty dollars. The eyes of the men popped
                        as he ran off in succession two five-hundred-dollar bills.
                    Downstairs in the shop of J. Bramble, some one was pounding violently on a
                        counter, but without results. He could produce no one to wait on him. He
                        might as well have tried to rouse the dead.
                    "Clever rascal," said M. Mirabeau at last. "The
                        last place in the world one would think of looking for plunder."
                    "What do you mean?" asked de Bosky, still dazed.
                    "It is quite simple," said the Frenchman. "Who but
                        your enterprising friend, the cracksman, could have thought of anything so
                        original as hiding money in the lining of a fur overcoat? He leaves the coat
                        in your custody, knowing you to be an honest man. At the expiration of his
                        term, he will reclaim "
                    "Ah, but he has still a matter of ten or eleven years to
                        serve," agreed de Bosky. "A great deal could happen in ten
                        or eleven years. He would not have taken so great a risk. He "
                    "Um!" mused M. Mirabeau, frowning. "That is
                        so."
                    
                    "What am I to do with it?" cried de Bosky.
                    "Nearly three thousand dollars! Am I awake, Mr. Bramble?"
                    "We can't all be dreaming the same thing," said
                        the bookseller, his fascinated gaze fixed on the bank notes.
                    "Ah-h!" exclaimed M. Mirabeau suddenly. "Try the
                        other shoulder! There will be more. He would not have been so clumsy as to
                        put it all on one side. He would have padded both shoulders alike."
                    And to the increased amazement of all of them, a similar packet was found in
                        the left shoulder of the coat.
                    "What did I tell you!" cried the old Frenchman,
                        triumphantly.
                    Included among the contents of the second bag, was a neatly folded sheet of
                        writing-paper. De Bosky, with trembling fingers, spread it out, and holding
                        it to the light, read in a low, halting manner: 
                            
                                
                                    "'Finder is keeper. This coat dont belong
                                        to me, and the money neither. It is nobodies buisness who
                                        they belonged to before. I put the money inside here becaus
                                        it is a place no one would ever look and I am taken a
                                        gamblers chanse on geting it back some day. Stranger things
                                        have happened. Something tells me that they are going to get
                                        me soon, and I dont want them to cop this stuff. It was hard
                                        earned. Mighty hard. I am hereby trusting to luck. I leave
                                        this coat with my neighber, Mr. Debosky, so in case they get
                                        me, they wont get it when they search my room. My neighber
                                        is an honest man. He dont know what I am and he dont know
                                        about this money. If anybody has to find  it I hope it will be him.
                                        Maybe they wont get me after all so all this writing is in
                                        vain. But Im taken no chance on that, and Im willing to take
                                        a chance on this stuff getting back to me somehow. I will
                                        say this before closing. The money belonged to people in
                                        various parts of the country and they could all afford to
                                        lose it, espeshilly the doctor. He is a bigger robber than I
                                        am, only he lets people see him get away with it. If this
                                        should fall into the hands of the police I want them to
                                        believe me when I say my neighber, a little for-reigner who
                                        plays the violin till it brings tears to my eyes, has no
                                        hand in this business. I am simply asking him to take care
                                        of my coat and wear it till I call for it, whenever that may
                                        be. And the following remarks is for him. If he finds this
                                        dough, he can keep it and use as much of it as he sees fit.
                                        I would sooner he had it than anybody, because he is poorer
                                        than anybody. And what he dont know wont hurt him. I mean
                                        what he dont know about who the stuff belonged to in the
                                        beginning. Being of sound mind and so fourth I hereby
                                        subscribe myself, in the year of our lord, September 26,
                                        1912.
                                    
                                        "HENRY LOVELESS."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "How very extraordinary," said Mr. Bramble after a long
                        silence.
                    "Nearly five thousand dollars," said M. Mirabeau.
                    "What will you do with it, de Bosky?"
                    The little violinist passed his hand over his brow, as if to clear away the
                        last vestige of perplexity.
                    "There is but one thing to do, my friends," he said slowly,
                        straightening up and facing them. "You will  understand, of course, that I cannot under any circumstances
                        possess myself of this stolen property."
                    Another silence ensued.
                    "Certainly not," said Mr. Bramble at last.
                    "It would be impossible," said M. Mirabeau, sighing.
                    "I shall, therefore, address a letter to my friend, acquainting him
                        with the mishap to his coat. I shall inform him that the insects have
                        destroyed the fur in the shoulders, laying bare the padding, and that while
                        I have been negligent in my care of his property up to this time, I shall
                        not be so in the future. Without betraying the secret, I shall in some way
                        let him know that the money is safe and that he may expect to regain all of
                        it when he when he comes out."
                    "Good!" exclaimed Mr. Bramble warmly.
                    M. Mirabeau suddenly broke into uproarious laughter.
                    "Mon dieu!" he gasped, when he could catch his breath. The
                        others were staring at him in alarm. "It is rare! It is exquisite!
                        The refinement of justice! That this should have happened
                        to the blood-sucking Mrs. Jacobs! Oho ho ho!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    DIPLOMACY
                    MR. SMITH-PARVIS, Senior, entertained one old-fashioned, back-number
                        idea,relict of a throttled past; it was a pestiferous idea that always kept
                        bobbing up in an insistent, aggravating way the instant he realized that he
                        had a few minutes to himself.
                    Psychologists might go so far as to claim that he had been born with it; that
                        it was, after a fashion, hereditary. He had come of honest, hard-working
                        Smiths; the men and women before him had cultivated the idea with such
                        unwavering assiduity that, despite all that had conspired to stifle it, the
                        thing still clung to him and would not be shaken off.
                    In short, Mr. Smith-Parvis had an idea that a man should work. Especially a
                        young man.
                    In secret he squirmed over the fact that his son Stuy-vesant had never been
                        known to do a day's work in his life. Not that it was actually
                        necessary for the young man to descend to anything so common and inelegant
                        as earning his daily bread, or that there was even a remote prospect of the
                        wolf sniffing around a future doorway. Not at all. He knew that Stuyvie
                        didn't have to work. Still, it grieved him to see so much youthful
                        energy going to waste. He had never quite gotten over the feeling that a man
                        could make something besides a mere  gentleman
                        of himself, and do it without seriously impairing the family honour.
                    He had once suggested to his wife that Stuyvesant ought to go to work. He
                        didn't care what he took up, just so he took up something. Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis was horrified. She would not listen to his reiterations that he
                        didn't mean clerking in a drygoods shop, or collecting fares on a
                        street car, or repairing electric doorbells, or anything of the kind, and
                        she wouldn't allow him to say just what sort of work he did mean.
                        The subject was not mentioned again for years. Stuyvesant was allowed to go
                        on being a gentleman in his own sweet way.
                    One day Mrs. Smith-Parvis, to his surprise and joy, announced that she
                        thought Stuyvesant ought to have a real chance to make something of himself,
                        a vocation or an avocation, she wasn't sure which, and she
                        couldn't see why the father of such a bright, capable boy had been
                        so blind to the possibilities that lay before him. She actually blamed him
                        for holding the young man back.
                    "I suggested some time ago, my dear," he began, in
                        self-defence, "that the boy ought to get a job and settle down to
                        "
                    "Job? How I loathe that word. It is almost as bad as
                        situation."
                    "Well, then, position," he amended. "You
                        wouldn't hear to it."
                    "I have no recollection of any such conversation," said she
                        firmly. "I have been giving the subject a great deal of thought
                        lately. The dear boy is entitled to his opportunity. He must make a name for
                        himself.
                    
                    I have decided, Philander, that he ought to go into the diplomatic
                        service."
                    "Oh, Lord!"
                    "I don't blame you for saying 'Oh, Lord,'
                        if you think I mean the American diplomatic service," she said,
                        smiling. "That, of course, is not even to be considered. He must
                        aim higher than that. I know it is a vulgar expression, but there is no
                        class to the American embassies abroad. Compare our embassies with any of
                        the other "
                    "But, my dear, you forget that "
                    "They are made up largely of men who have sprung from the most
                        ordinary walks in life, men totally unfitted for the social position that
                        Please do not argue, Philander. You know perfectly well that what I say is
                        true. I shouldn't think of letting Stuyvesant enter the American
                        diplomatic service. Do you remember that dreadful person who came to see us
                        in Berlin, about the trunks we sent up from Paris by grande
                            vitesse? Well, just think of Stuyvesant "
                    "He was a clerk from the U. S. Consul's office,"
                        he interrupted doggedly. "Nothing whatever to do with the embassy.
                        Besides, we can't "
                    "It doesn't matter. I have been giving it a great deal of
                        thought lately, trying to decide which is the best service for Stuyvesant to
                        enter. The English diplomatic corps in this country is perfectly stunning,
                        and so is the French, and the Russian, for that matter. He doesn't
                        speak the Russian language, however, so I suppose we will have to "
                    "See here, my dear, listen to me," he broke in  resolutely. "Stuyvesant
                        can't get into the service of any of these countries. He "
                    "I'd like to know why not!" she cried sharply.
                        "He is a gentleman, he has manner, he is Well, isn't he as
                        good as any of the young men one sees at the English or the French Legations
                        in Washington?"
                    "I grant you all that, but he is an American just the same. He
                        can't be born all over again, you know, with a new pair of parents.
                        He's got to be in the American diplomatic corps, or in no corps at
                        all. Now, get that through your head, my dear."
                    She finally got it through her head, and resigned herself to the American
                        service, deciding that the Court of St. James offered the most desirable
                        prospects in view of its close proximity to the other great capitals of
                        Europe.
                    "Stuyvesant likes London next to Paris, and he could cross over to
                        France whenever he felt the need of change."
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis looked harassed.
                    "Easier said than done," he ventured. "These chaps
                        in the legations have to stick pretty close to their posts. He
                        can't be running about, all over the place, you know. It
                        isn't expected. You might as well understand in the beginning that
                        he'll have to work like a nailer for a good many years before he
                        gets anywhere in the diplomatic service."
                    "Nonsense. Doesn't the President appoint men to act as
                        Ambassadors who never had an hour's experience in diplomacy?
                        It's all a matter of politics. I'm sorry to say,
                        Philander, the right men are never appointed.
                         It seems to be the practice in this country
                        to appoint men who, so far as I know, have absolutely no social standing.
                        Mr. Choate was an exception, of course. I am sure that Stuyvesant will go to
                        the top rapidly if he is given a chance. Now, how shall we go about it,
                        Philander?" She considered the matter settled. Her husband shook
                        his head.
                    "Have you spoken to Stuyvie about it?" he inquired.
                    "Oh, dear me, no. I want to surprise him."
                    "I see," said he, rather grimly for him. "I see.
                        We simply say: 'Here is a nice soft berth in the diplomatic corps,
                        Stuyvie. You may sail tomorrow if you like.'"
                    "Don't be silly. And please do not call him Stuyvie.
                        I've spoken to you about that a thousand times, Philander. Now,
                        don't you think you ought to run down to Washington and see the
                        President? It may "
                    "No, I don't," said he flatly.
                        "I'm not a dee fool."
                    "Don't don't you care to see your son make
                        something of himself?" she cried in dismay.
                    "Certainly. I'd like nothing better than "
                    "Then, try to take a little interest in him," she said
                        coldly.
                    "In the first place," said he resignedly," what
                        are his polities?"
                    "The same as yours. He is a Republican. All the people we know are
                        Republicans. The Democrats are too common for words."
                    "Well, his first attempt at diplomacy will be to change his
                        politics," he said, waxing a little sarcastic as he gained courage.
                        "And I'd advise you not to say  nasty things about the Democrats. They are in the saddle now,
                        you know. I suppose you've heard that the President is a
                        Democrat?"
                    "I can't help that," she replied stubbornly.
                    "And he appoints nothing but Democrats,"
                    "Is there likely to be a Republican president soon?" she
                        inquired, knitting her brows.
                    "That's difficult to say."
                    "I suppose Stuyvesant could, in a diplomatic sort of way, pretend to
                        be a Democrat, couldn't he, dear?"
                    "He lost nearly ten thousand dollars at the last election betting on
                        what he said was a sure thing," said he, compressing his lips.
                    "The poor dear!"
                    "I can't see very much in this diplomatic game,
                        anyhow," said Mr. Smith-Parvis determinedly.
                    "I asked you a direct question, Philander," she said
                        stiffly.
                    "I I seem to have forgotten just what "
                    "I asked you how we are to go about securing an appointment for
                        him."
                    "Oh," said he, wilting a little. "So you did.
                        Well, um aw let me think. There's only one way. He's got
                        to have a pull. Does he know any one high up in the Democratic ranks? Any
                        one who possesses great influence?" There was a twinkle in his eye.
                    "I I don't know," she replied, helplessly.
                        "He is quite young, Philander. He can't be expected to
                        know everybody. But you! Now that I think of it, you must know any number of
                        influential Democrats. There must be some one to whom you could go. You
                        would simply say to him that Stuyvesant agrees to  enter the service, and that he will do everything in his power
                        to raise it to the social standard "
                    "The man would die laughing," said he unfeelingly.
                    "I was just thinking. Suppose I were to go to the only influential
                        Democratic politician I know, Cornelius McFaddan, and tell him that
                        Stuyvesant advocates the reconstruction of our diplomatic service along
                        English lines, he would undoubtedly say things to me that I could neither
                        forget nor forgive. I can almost hear him now."
                    "You refuse to make any effort at all, then?"
                    "Not at all," he broke in quickly. "I will see
                        him. As a matter of fact, McFaddan is a very decent sort of chap, and he is
                        keen to join the Oxford Country Club. He knows I am on the Board of
                        Governors. In fact, he asked me not long ago what golf club I'd
                        advise him to join. He thinks he's getting too fat. Wants to take
                        up golf."
                    "But you couldn't propose him for
                        membership in the Oxford, Philander," she said flatly.
                        "Only the smartest people in town "
                    "Leave it to me," he interrupted, a flash of enthusiasm in
                        his eyes. "By gad, I shouldn't be surprised if I could do
                        something through him. He carries a good deal of weight."
                    "Would it be wise to let him reduce it by playing golf?"
                        she inquired doubtfully.
                    He stared. "I mean politically. Figure of speech, my dear."
                    "Oh, I see."
                    "A little coddling on my part, and that sort of thing. They all want
                        to break into society, every  last one of
                        them. You never can tell. A little soft soap goes a long way sometimes. I
                        could ask him to have luncheon with me at Bombay House. Um-m-m!" He
                        fell into a reflective mood.
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis also was thoughtful. An amazing idea had sprouted in her
                        head.
                    "Has he a wife?" she inquired, after many minutes.
                    "They always have, those chaps," said he. "And a
                        lot of children."
                    "I was just wondering if it wouldn't be good policy to have
                        them to dinner some night, Philander," she said.
                    "Oh, my God!" he exclaimed, sitting up suddenly and staring
                        at her in astonishment.
                    "Every little helps," she said argumentatively.
                        "It would be like opening the seventh heaven to her if I were to
                        invite her here to dine. Just think what it would mean to her. She would
                        meet"
                    "They probably eat with their knives and tuck their napkins under
                        their chins."
                    "I am sure that would be amusing," said she, eagerly.
                        "It is so difficult nowadays to provide amusement for
                        one's guests. Really, my dear, I think it is quite an idea. We
                        could explain beforehand to the people we'll have in to meet them,
                        explain everything, you know. The plan for Stuyvesant, and
                        everything."
                    He was still staring. "Well, who would you suggest having in with
                        Mr. and Mrs. Con McFaddan?"
                    "Oh, the Cricklewicks, and the Blodgetts, and old Mrs. Millidew,
                        I've been intending to have her anyway, and perhaps the Van Ostrons
                        and Cicely Braith-mere, and I am sure we could get dear old Percy Tromboy.
                             He would be frightfully amused by the
                        McFinne-gans, and "
                    "McFaddan," he edged in.
                    " and he could get a world of material for those screaming Irish
                        imitations he loves to give. Now, when will you see Mr. McFaddan?"
                    "You'd have to call on his wife, wouldn't you,
                        before asking her to dinner?"
                    "She probably never has heard of the custom," said Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis composedly.
                    The next day, Mr. Smith-Parvis strolled into the offices of Mr. Cornelius
                        McFaddan, Contractor, and casually remarked what a wonderful view of the Bay
                        he had from his windows.
                    "I dropped in, Mr. McFaddan," he explained," to
                        see if you were really in earnest about wanting to join the Oxford Country
                        Club?" He had decided that it was best to go straight to the point.
                    McFaddan regarded him narrowly. "Did I ever say I wanted to join the
                        Oxford Country Club?" he demanded.
                    "Didn't you?" asked his visitor, slightly
                        disturbed by this ungracious response.
                    "I did not," said Mr. McFaddan promptly.
                    "Dear me, I I was under the impression Ahem! I am sure you spoke of
                        wanting to join a golf club."
                    "That must have been some time ago. I've joined
                        one," said the other, a little more agreeably.
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis punched nervously with his cane at one of his pearl grey
                        spats. The contractor allowed his gaze to shift. He didn't wear
                        "spats" himself.
                    
                    "I am sorry. I daresay I could have rushed you through in the
                        Oxford. They are mighty rigid and exclusive up there, but well, you would
                        have gone in with a rush. Men like you are always shoved through ahead of
                        others. It isn't quite ah regular, you know, but it's done
                        when a candidate of special prominence comes up. Of course, I need not
                        explain that it's ah quite sub rosa?"
                    "Sure," said Mr. McFaddan promptly: "I know. We do
                        it at the Jolly Dog Club." He was again eyeing his visitor
                        narrowly, speculatively. "It's mighty good of you, Mr.
                        Smith-Parvis. Have a cigar?"
                    "No, thank you. I seldom On second thoughts, I will take
                        one." It occurred to him that it was the diplomatic thing to do, no
                        matter what kind of a cigar it was. Besides, he wouldn't feel
                        called upon to terminate his visit at once if he lighted the man's
                        cigar. He could at least smoke an inch or even an inch and a half of it
                        before announcing that he would have to be going. And a great deal can
                        happen during the consumption of an inch or so of tobacco.
                    "That's a good cigar," he commented, after a
                        couple of puffs. He took it from his lips and inspected it critically.
                    Mr. McFaddan was pleased. "It ought to be," he said.
                        "Fifty cents straight."
                    The visitor looked at it with sudden respect. "A little better than
                        I'm in the habit of smoking," he said ingratiatingly.
                    "What does it cost to join the Oxford Club?" inquired the
                        contractor.
                    "Twelve hundred dollars admission, and two hundred  a year dues," said Mr. Smith-Parvis,
                        pricking up his ears. "Really quite reasonable."
                    "My wife don't like the golf club I belong to,"
                        said the other, squinting at his own cigar. "Rough-neck crowd, she
                        says."
                    Mr. Smith-Parvis looked politely concerned.
                    "That's too bad," he said.
                    The contractor appeared to be weighing something in his mind.
                    "How long does it take to get into your club.? he asked.
                    "Usually about five years," said Mr. Smith-Parvis, blandly.
                        "Long waiting list, you know. Some of the best people in the city
                        are on it, by the way. I daresay it wouldn't be more than two or
                        three months in your case, however," he concluded.
                    "I'II speak to the wife about it," said Mr.
                        McFad-dan. "She may put her foot down hard. Too swell for us,
                        maybe. We're plain people."
                    "Not a bit of it," said Mr. Smith-Parvis readily.
                        "Extremely democratic club, my dear McFaddan. Exclusive and all
                        that, but quite ah unconventional. Ha-ha!"
                    Finding himself on the high-road to success, he adventured a little farther.
                        Glancing up at the clock on the wall, he got to his feet with an exclamation
                        of well-feigned dismay.
                    "My dear fellow, I had no idea it was so near the luncheon hour.
                        Stupid of me. Why didn't you kick me out? Ha-ha! Let me know what
                        you decide to do, and I will be delighted to But better still,
                        can't you have lunch with me? I could tell you something  about the club andWhat do you say to going
                        around to Bombay House with me?"
                    "I'd like nothing better," said the thoroughly
                        perplexed politician. "Excuse me while I wash me hands."
                    And peering earnestly into the mirror above the washstand in the corner of
                        the office, Mr. McFaddan said to himself:
                    "I must look easier to him than I do to meself. If I'm any
                        kind of a guesser at all he's after one of two things. He either
                        wants his tax assessment rejuced or wants to run for mayor of the city. The
                        poor boob!"
                    That evening Mr. Smith-Parvis announced, in a bland and casual manner, that
                        things were shaping themselves beautifully.
                    "I had McFaddan to lunch with me," he explained.
                        "He was tremendously impressed."
                    His wife was slightly perturbed. "And I suppose you were so stupid
                        as to introduce him to a lot of men in the club who"
                    "I didn't have to," interrupted Mr. Smith-Parvis,
                        a trifle crossly. "It was amazing how many of the members knew him.
                        I daresay four out of every five men in the club shook hands with him and
                        called him Mr. McFaddan. Two bank presidents called him Con, and, by gad,
                        Angela, he actually introduced me to several really big bugs I've
                        been wanting to meet for ten years or more. Most extraordinary,
                        'pon my word."
                    "Did youdid you put out any feelers?"
                    "About Stuyviesant? Certainly not. That would have been fatal. I did
                        advance a few tactful and pertinent criticisms of our present diplomatic
                        service, however. I was relieved to discover that he thinks  it can be improved. He agreed with me when I
                        advanced the opinion that we, as sovereign citizens of this great Republic,
                        ought to see to it that a better, a higher class of men represent us abroad.
                        He said,in his rough, slangy way: 'You're dead right. What
                        good are them authors and poets we're sendin' over there
                        now? What we need is good, live hustlers,men with ginger instead of ink in
                        their veins.' I remember the words perfectly. 'Ginger
                        instead of ink!' Haha,rather good, eh?"
                    "You must dress at once, Philander," said his wife.
                        "We are dining with the Hatchers."
                    "That reminds me," he said, wrinkling his brow. "I
                        dropped in to see Cricklewick on the way up. He didn't appear to be
                        very enthusiastic about dining here with the McFaddans."
                    "For heaven's sake, you don't mean to say
                        you've already asked the man to dine with us!" cried his
                        wife.
                    "Not in so many words," he made haste to explain.
                        "He spoke several times about his wife. Seemed to want me to know
                        that she was a snappy old girl,his words, not mine. The salt of the earth,
                        and so on. Of course, I had to say something agreeable. So I said
                        I'd like very much to have the pleasure of meeting her."
                    "Oh, you did, did you?" witheringly.
                    "He seemed really quite affected, my dear. It was several minutes
                        before he could find the words to reply. Got very red in the face and
                        managed to say finally that it was very kind of me. I think it rather made a
                        hit with him. I merely mentioned the possibility of dining together some
                            time,en famille,and that I'd like him to meet
                        you. Nothing more,not a thing  more than
                        that!" he cried, quailing a little under his wife's eye.
                    "And what did he say to that?" she inquired. The rising
                        inflection was ominous.
                    "He was polite enough to say he'd be pleased to meet
                        you," said he, with justifiable exasperation.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    ONE NIGHT AT SPANGLER'S
                    A FEW mornings after de Bosky's premier as
                        director of the Royal Hungarian Orchestra, Mrs. Sparflight called Jane
                        Emsdale's attention to a news "story" in the Times. The headline was as follows:
                    A ROYAL VIOLINIST
                    
                    
                        Prince de Bosky Leads the Orchestra at Spangler's
                    
                    Three-quarters of a column were devoted to the first appearance in America of
                        the royal musician; his remarkable talent; his glorious ancestry; his
                        singular independence; and (through an interpreter) his impressions of New
                        York.
                    "Oh, I am so glad," cried Jane, after she had read the
                        story. "The poor fellow was so dreadfully up against it."
                    "We must go and hear him soon," said the other.
                    They were at the breakfast-table. Jane had been with the elder woman for
                        nearly a week. She was happy, radiant, contented. Not so much as an inkling
                        of the truth arose to disturb her serenity. She believed herself to be
                        actually in the pay of "Deborah." From morning till night
                        she went cheerfully about the tasks set for her by her sorely tried
                        employer, who, as time went on, found herself hard put to invent duties for
                        a  conscientious private secretary. Jane was
                        much too active, much too eager; such indefatigable energy harassed rather
                        than comforted her employer. And, not for the world, would the latter have
                        called upon her to take over any of the work downstairs. The poor lady lay
                        awake nights trying to think of something that she could set the girl to
                        doing in the morning!
                    A curt, pointed epistle had come to Mrs. Sparflight from Mrs. Smith-Parvis.
                        That lady announced briefly that she had been obliged to discharge Miss
                        Emsdale, and that she considered it her duty to warn Mrs. Sparflight against
                        recommending her late governess to any one else.
                    "You may answer the note, my dear," the Marchioness had
                        said, her eyes twinkling as she watched Jane's face.
                        "Thank her for the warning and say that I regret having sent Miss
                        Emsdale to her. Say that I shall be exceedingly careful in the future. Sign
                        it, and append your initials. It isn't a bad idea to let her know
                        that I do not regard her communication as strictly confidential,between
                        friends, you might say. And now you must get out for a long walk today. A
                        strong, healthy English girl like you shouldn't go without
                        stretching her legs. You'll be losing the bloom in your cheek if
                        you stay indoors as you've been doing the past week."
                    Jane's dread of meeting her tormentor had kept her close to the
                        apartment since the night of her rather unconventional arrival. Twice the
                        eager Trotter, thrilled and exalted by his new-found happiness, had dashed
                        in to see her, but only for a few minutes' stay on each occasion.
                    
                    "How do you like your new position?" he had asked in the
                        dimness at the head of the stairway. She could not see his face, but it was
                        because he kept her head rather closely pressed into the hollow of his
                        shoulder. Otherwise she might have detected the guilty flicker in his eyes.
                    "I love it. She is such a dear. But, really, Eric, I don't
                        think I'm worth half what she pays me."
                    He chuckled softly. "Oh, yes, you are. You are certainly worth half
                        what my boss pays me."
                    "But I do not earn it," she insisted.
                    "Neither do I," said he.
                    To return to the Marchioness and the newspaper:
                    "We will go off on a little spree before long, my dear. A good
                        dinner at Spangler's, a little music, and a chat with the sensation
                        of the hour. Get Mrs. Hendricks on the telephone, please. I will ask her to
                        join us there some night soon with her husband. He is the man who wrote that
                        delightful novel with the name I never can remember. You will like him, I
                        know. He is so dreadfully deaf that all one has to do to include him in the
                        conversation is to return his smiles occasionally."
                    And so, on a certain night in mid-April, it came to pass that
                        Spangler's Caf, gay and full of the din that sustains the genus New Yorker in his contention that there is no other
                        place in the world fit to live in, had among its patrons a number of the
                        persons connected with this story of the City of Masks.
                    First of all, there was the new leader of the orchestra, a dapper,
                        romantic-looking young man in a flaming red coat. Ah, but you should have
                        seen him! The admirable Mirabeau, true Frenchman that he was, had performed
                             wonders with pomades and oils and the
                        glossy brilliantine. The sleek black hair of the little Prince shome like
                        the raven's wing; his dark, gipsy eyes, rendered more vivid by the
                        skilful application of "lampblack," gleamed with an ardent
                        excitement; there was colour in his checks, and a smile on his lips.
                    At a table near the platform on which the orchestra was stationed, sat the
                        Honourable Cornelius McFaddan, his wife, and a congenial party of friends.
                        In a faroff corner, remote from the music, you would have discovered the
                        Marchioness and her companions; the bland, perpetually smiling Mr. Hendricks
                        who wrote the book, his wife, and the lovely, blue-eyed Jane.
                    By a strange order of coincidence, young Mr. Stuy-vesant Smith-Parvis, quite
                        mellow and bereft of the power to focus steadily with eye or intellect,
                        occupied a seat,and frequently a seat and a half,at a table made up of
                        shrill-voiced young women and bald-headed gentlemen of uncertain age who had
                        a whispering acquaintance with the head waiter and his assistants.
                    The Countess du Bara, otherwise Corinne, entertained a few of the lesser
                        lights of the Opera and two lean, hungry-looking critics she was cultivating
                        against an hour of need.
                    At a small, mean table alongside the swinging door through which a procession
                        of waiters constantly streamed on their way from the kitchen, balancing
                        trays at hazardous heights, sat two men who up to this moment have not been
                        mentioned in these revelations. Very ordinary looking persons they were, in
                        business clothes.
                    One of them, a sallow, liverish individual, divided his  interest between two widely separated tables. His companion
                        was interested in nothing except his food, which being wholly unsatisfactory
                        to him, relieved him of the necessity of talking about anything else. He
                        spoke of it from time to time, however, usually to the waiter, who could
                        only say that he was sorry. This man was a red-faced, sharp-nosed person
                        with an unmistakable Cockney accent. He seemed to find a great deal of
                        comfort in verbally longing for the day when he could get back to
                        Simpson's in the Strand for a bit of "roast that is a
                        roast."
                    The crowd began to thin out shortly after the time set for the lifting of
                        curtains in all of the theatres. It was then that the sallow-faced man arose
                        from his seat and, after asking his companion to excuse him for a minute,
                        approached Stuyvesant Smith-Parvis. That gentleman had been dizzily ogling a
                        dashing, spirited young woman at the table presided over by Mr. McFad-dan, a
                        circumstance which not only annoyed the lady but also one closer at hand.
                        The latter was wanting to know, in some heat, what he took her for. If he
                        thought she'd stand for anything like that, he had another guess
                        coming.
                    "May I have a word with you?" asked the sallow man,
                        inserting his head between Stuyvesant and the protesting young woman.
                    "The bouncer," cried the young woman, looking up.
                        "Good work. That's what you get for making eyes at
                        strange"
                    "Shut up," said Stuyvie, who had, after a moment's
                        concentration, recognized the man. "What do you want?"
                    
                    "A word in private," said the other. Stuyvesant got up and
                        followed him to a vacant table in the rear.
                    "She is here," said the stranger. "Here in this
                        restaurant. Not more than fifty feet from where we're
                        sitting."
                    The listener blinked. His brain was foggy. "What's
                        that?" he mumbled, thickly. "The girl you're
                        lookin' for," said the man.
                    Stuyvesant sat up abruptly. His brain seemed to clear.
                    "You meanMiss Emsdale?" he demanded, rather distinctly.
                    The little man in the red coat, sitting just above them on the edge of the
                        platform, where he was resting after a particularly long and arduous number,
                        pricked up his ears. He, too, had seen the radiant, friendly face of the
                        English girl at the far end of the room, and had favoured her with more than
                        one smile of appreciation.
                    "Yes. Stand up and take a look. Keep back of this palm,
                        so's she won't lamp you. 'Way over there with the
                        white haired old lady. Am I right? She's the one, ain't
                        she?"
                    Smith Parvis became visibly excited. "Yes,there's not the
                        slightest doubt. Howhow long has she been here? Why the devil
                        didn't you tell me sooner?"
                    "Don't get excited. Better not let her see you in this
                        condition. She looks like a nice, refined girl. She"
                    "What do you mean 'condition'? I'm all
                        right," retorted the young man, bellicose at once.
                    
                    "I know you are," said the other soothingly.
                    "Darn the luck," growled Stuyvie, following a heroic effort
                        to restore his physical equilibrium. "I wouldn't have had
                        her see me here with this crowd for half the money in New York.
                        She'll get a bad impression of me. Look at 'em! My Lord,
                        they're all stewed. I say, you go over and tell that man with the
                        big nose at the head of my table that I've been suddenly called
                        away, and "
                    "Take my advice, and sit tight."
                    Stuyvie's mind wandered. "Say, do you know who that
                        rippin' creature is over there with the fat Irishman?
                        She's a dream."
                    The sallow man did not deign to look. He bent a little closer to Mr.
                        Smith-Parvis.
                    "Now, what is the next move, Mr. Smith-Parvis? I've located
                        her right enough. Is this the end of the trail?"
                    "Sh!" cautioned Stuyvie, loudly. Then even more loudly:
                        "Don't you know any better than to roar like that?
                        There's a man sitting up there "
                    "He can't understand a word of English. Wop, Just landed.
                        That's the guy the papers have been "
                    "I am not in the least interested in your conversation,"
                        said Stuyvie haughtily. "What were you saying?"
                    "Am I through? That's what I want to know."
                    "You have found out where she's stopping?"
                    "Yep. Stayin' with the white-haired old lady. Dressmaking
                        establishment. The office will make a full report to you tomorrow."
                    "Wait a minute. Let me think."
                    
                    The sallow man waited for some time. Then he said: "Excuse me, Mr.
                        Smith-Parvis, but I've got a friend over here. Stranger in New
                        York. I'm detailed to entertain him."
                    "You've got to shake him," said Stuyvie,
                        arrogantly. "I want you to follow her home, and I'm going
                        with you. As soon as I know positively where she lives, I'll decide
                        on the next step we're to take. We'll have to work out
                        some plan to get her away from that dress-makin'
                        'stablishment."
                    The other gave him a hard look. "Don't count our people in
                        on any rough stuff," he said levelly. "We don't
                        go in for that sort of thing."
                    Stuyvie winked. "We'll talk about that when the time
                        comes."
                    "Well, what I said goes. We're the oldest and most reliable
                        agency in "
                    "I know all that," said Stuyvie, peevishly. "It is
                        immaterial to me whether your agency or some other one does the job.
                        Remember that, will you? I want that girl, and I don't give a
                        "
                    "Good night, Mr. Smith-Parvis."
                    "Wait a minute, wait a minute. Now, listen. When
                        you see her getting ready to leave this place, rush out and get a taxi.
                        I'll join you outside, and we'll "
                    "Very well. That's part of my job, I suppose. I will have
                        to explain to my friend. He will understand." He lowered his voice
                        to almost a whisper. "He's in the same business. Special
                        from Scotland Yard. My God, what bulldogs these Britishers are.
                        He's been clear around the world, lookin' for a young
                        English swell who lit out a couple of years ago. We've been  taken in on the case, and I'm on the
                        job with him from now "
                    "And say," broke in Stuyvie, irrelevantly," before
                        you leave find out who that girl is over there with the fat Irishman.
                        Understand?"
                    Prince Waldemar de Bosky's thoughts and reflections, up to the
                        beginning of this duologue, were of the rosiest and most cheerful nature. He
                        was not proud to be playing the violin in Spangler's, but he was
                        human. He was not above being gratified by the applause and enthusiasm of
                        the people who came to see if not to hear a prince of the blood perform.
                    His friends were out there in front, and it was to them that he played. He
                        was very happy. And the five thousand dollars in the old steel safe at the
                        shop of Mirabeau the clockmaker! He had been thinking of them and of the
                        letter he had posted to the man "up the river," and of the
                        interest he would take in the reply when it came. Abruptly, in the midst of
                        these agreeable thoughts, came the unlovely interruption.
                    At first he was bewildered, uncertain as to the course he should pursue. He
                        never had seen young Smith-Parvis before, but he had no difficulty in
                        identifying him as the disturber of Trotter's peace of mind. That
                        there was something dark and sinister behind the plans and motives of the
                        young man and his spy was not a matter for doubt. How was he to warn Lady
                        Jane? He was in a fearful state of perturbation as he stepped to the front
                        of the platform for the next number on the program.
                    As he played, he saw Smith-Parvis rejoin his party. He watched the sallow man
                        weave his way among the  diners to his own
                        table. His anxious gaze sought out the Marchioness and Jane, and he was
                        relieved to find that they were not preparing to depart. Also, he looked
                        again at McFaddan and the dashing young woman at the foot of his table. He
                        had recognized the man who once a week came under his critical observation
                        as a proper footman. As a matter of fact, he had been a trifle flabbergasted
                        by the intense stare with which McFaddan favoured him. Up to this hour he
                        had not associated McFaddan with opulence or a tailor-made dress suit.
                    After the encore, he descended from the platform and made his way, bowing
                        right and left to the friendly throng, until he brought up at the
                        Marchioness's table. There he paused and executed a profound bow.
                    The Marchioness proffered her hand, which he was careful not to see, and said
                        something to him in English. He shook his head, expressive of despair, and
                        replied in the Hungarian tongue.
                    "He does not understand English," said Jane, her eyes
                        sparkling. Then she complimented him in French.
                    De Bosky affected a faint expression of hope. He managed a few halting words
                        in French. Jane was delighted. This was rare good fun. The musician turned
                        to the others at the table and gave utterance to the customary
                        "Parle vouz Francais, madame m'sieu?"
                    "Not a word," said Mrs. Hendricks. "He understands it but he can't hear it," she
                        went on, and suddenly turned a fiery red. "How silly of
                        me," she said to the Marchioness, giggling hysterically.
                    
                    De Bosky's face cleared. He addressed himself to Jane; it was quite
                        safe to speak to her in French. He forgot himself in his eagerness, however,
                        and spoke with amazing fluency for one who but a moment before had been so
                        at a loss. In a few quick, concise sentences he told her of
                        Stuyvesant's presence, his condition and his immediate designs.
                    Both Jane and the Marchioness were equal to the occasion. Although filled
                        with consternation, they succeeded admirably in concealing their dismay
                        behind a mask of smiles and a gay sort of chatter. De Bosky beamed and
                        smirked and gesticulated. One would have thought he was regaling them with
                        an amusing story.
                    "He is capable of making a horrid scene," lamented Jane,
                        through smiling lips. "He may come over to this table and
                        "
                    "Compose yourself," broke in de Bosky, a smile on his lips
                        but not in his eyes. "If he should attempt to annoy you here, I I
                        myself will take him in hand. Have no fear. You may depend on me."
                    He was interrupted at this juncture by a brass-buttoned page who passed the
                        table, murmuring the name of Mrs. Sparflight.
                    Spangler's is an exceptional place. Pages do not bawl out
                        one's name as if calling an "extra." On the
                        contrary, in quiet, repressed tones they politely inquire at each table for
                        the person wanted. Mr. Spangler was very particular about this. He came near
                        to losing his license years before simply because a page had meandered
                        through the restaurant bellowing the name of a gentleman whose influence was
                        greater at City Hall than it was at his own fireside, from which, by the
                        way,  he appears to have strayed on the night
                        in question.
                    "Dear me," cried the Marchioness, her agitation increasing.
                        "No one knows I am here. How on earth Here, boy!"
                    A note was delivered to her. It was from Thomas Trotter. Her face brightened
                        as she glanced swiftly through the scrawl.
                    "Splendid!" she exclaimed. "It is from Mr.
                        Trotter. He is waiting outside with his automobile."
                    She passed the note to Jane, whose colour deepened. De Bosky drew a deep
                        breath of relief, and, cheered beyond measure by her reassuring words,
                        strode off, his head erect, his white teeth showing in a broad smile.
                    Trotter wrote: "It is raining cats and dogs. I have the car outside.
                        The family is at the theatre. Don't hurry. I can wait until 10:15.
                        If you are not ready to come away by that time, you will find my friend Joe
                        Glimm hanging about in front of the caf, drenched to the skin, I'll
                        wager. You will recall him as the huge person I introduced to you recently
                        as from Constantinople. Just put yourselves under his wing if anything
                        happens. He is jolly well able to protect you. I know who's in
                        there, but don't be uneasy. He will not dare molest you."
                    "Shall I keep it for you?" asked Jane, her eyes shining.
                    "I fancy it was intended for you, my dear," said the other
                        drily.
                    "How very interesting," observed Mr. Hendricks, who
                        occasionally offered some such remark as his contribution to the gaiety of
                        the evening. He had found it to be a perfectly safe shot, even when fired at
                        random.
                    
                    In the meantime, Mr. McFaddan had come to the conclusion that the young man
                        at the next table but one was obnoxious. It isn't exactly the way
                        Mr. McFaddan would have put it, but as he would have put it less elegantly,
                        it is better to supply him with a word out of stock.
                    The dashing young woman upon whom Stuyvesant lavished his bold and
                        significant glances happened to be Mrs. McFaddan, whose scant twelve months
                        as a wife gave her certain privileges and a distinction that properly would
                        have been denied her hearth-loving predecessor who came over from Ireland to
                        marry Con McFaddan when he was promoted to the position of foreman in the
                        works, and who, true to her estate of muliebrity, produced four of the most
                        exemplary step-children that any second wife could have discovered if she
                        had gone storking over the entire city.
                    Cornelius had married his stenographer. It was not his fault that she
                        happened to be a very pretty young woman, nor could he be held responsible
                        for the fact that he was approximately thirty years of age on the day she
                        was born. Any way you look at it, she was his wife and dependent on him for
                        some measure of protection.
                    And Mr. McFaddan, being an influence, sent for the proprietor of the caf
                        himself, and whispered to him. Whereupon, Mr. Spangler, considering the side
                        on which his bread was buttered, whispered back that it should be attended
                        to at once.
                    "And," pursued Mr. McFaddan, purple with suppressed rage,
                        "if you don't, I will."
                    A minute or two later, one of the waiters approached  young Mr. Smith-Parvis and informed him that he was wanted
                        outside at once.
                    Stuyvesant's heart leaped. He at once surmised that Miss Emsdale,
                        repentant and envious, had come off her high horse and was eager to get away
                        from the dull, prosaic and stupidly respectable old
                        "parties" over in the corner. Conceivably she had taken a
                        little more champagne than was good for her. He got up immediately, and
                        without so much as a word of apology to his host, made his way eagerly,
                        though unsteadily, to the entrance-hall.
                    He expected Miss Emsdale to follow; he was already framing in his beaddled
                        brain the jolly little lecture he would give her when 
                    A red-faced person jostled him in a most annoying manner.
                    "Look sharp there," said Stuyvie thickly. "Watch
                        where you're going."
                    "Steady, sir, steady!" came in a hushed, agitated voice
                        from Mr. Spangler, who appeared to be addressing himself exclusively to the
                        red-faced person. "Let me manage it, please."
                    "Who the devil is this bally old blighter?" demanded
                        Stuyvie loudly.
                    "Leave him to me, Spangler," said the red-faced man.
                        "I have a few choice words I "
                    "Here! Confound you! Keep off of my toes, you fool! I say, Spangler,
                        what's the matter with you? Throw him out! He's "
                    "Gentlemen! Gentlemen!"
                    "I ought to knock your block off," said Mr. McFaddan,
                        without raising his voice. As his face was within  six inches of Stuyvesant's nose, the young man had no
                        difficulty whatever in hearing what he said, and yet it should not be
                        considered strange that he failed to understand. In all fairness, it must be
                        said that he was bewildered. Under the circumstances any one would have been
                        bewildered. Being spoken to in that fashion by a man you've never
                        seen before in your life is, to say the least, surprising.
                        "I'll give you ten seconds to apologize."
                    "Ap apologize? Confound you, what do you mean? You're
                        drunk."
                    "I said ten seconds," growled Cornelius.
                    "And then what?" gulped Stuyvie.
                    "A swat on the nose," said Mr. McFaddan.
                    At no point in the course of this narrative has there been either proof or
                        assertion that Smith-Parvis, Junior, possessed the back-bone of a
                        caterpillar. It has been stated, however, that he was a young man of
                        considerable bulk. We have assumed, correctly, that this rather impressive
                        physique masked a craven spirit. As a matter of fact, he was such a
                        prodigious coward that he practised all manner of
                        "exercises" in order to develop something to inspire in
                        his fellow-men the belief that he would be a pretty tough customer to
                        tackle.
                    Something is to be said for his method. It has been successfully practised by
                        man ever since the day that Solomon, in all his glory, arrayed himself so
                        sumptuously that the whole world hailed him as the wisest man extant.
                    Stuyvie took great pride in revealing his well-developed arms; it was not an
                        uncommon thing for him to  ask you to feel his
                        biceps, or his back muscles, or the cords in his thigh; he did a great deal
                        of strutting in his bathing suit at such places as Atlantic City,
                        Southampton and Newport. In a way, it paid to advertise.
                    Now when Mr. McFaddan, a formidable-looking person, made that emphatic
                        remark, Stuyvesant realized that there was no escape. He was trapped. Panic
                        seized him. In sheer terror he struck blindly at the awful, reddish thing
                        that filled his vision.
                    He talked a good deal about it afterwards, explaining in a casual sort of way
                        just how he had measured the distance and had picked out the point of the
                        fat man's jaw. He even went so far as to say that he felt sorry for
                        the poor devil even before he delivered the blow.
                    The fact of the matter is, Stuyvie's wild, terrified swing,
                        delivered with the eyes not only closed but covered by the left arm, landed
                        squarely on Mr. McFaddan's jaw. And when the aggressor, after a
                        moment or two of suspense, opened his eyes and lowered his arm, expecting to
                        find his adversary's fist on its irresistible approach toward his
                        nose, there was no Mr. McFaddan in sight; at least, he was not where he had
                        been the moment before.
                    Mr. McFaddan lay in a crumpled heap against a chair, ten feet away.
                    Stuyvie was suddenly aware that some one was assisting him into his coat, and
                        that several men were hustling him toward the door.
                    "Get out, quick!" said one, who turned out to be the
                        agitated Mr. Spangler. "Before he gets up. He is a terrible
                        man."
                    
                    By this time they were in the vestibule.
                    "I will not tell him who you are," Mr. Spangler was saying.
                        "I will give you another name, Jones or anything. He must never
                        know who you are."
                    "What's the difference?" chattered Stuyvie.
                        "He's he's dead, isn't he?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    SCOTLAND YARD TAKES A HAND
                    IT was raining hard. Stuyvesant, thoroughly alarmed and not at all elated by
                        his astonishing conquest, halted in dismay. The pelting torrent swept up
                        against the side of the canvas awning that extended to the street; the thick
                        matting on the sidewalk was almost afloat. Headlights of automobiles drawn
                        up to the curb blazed dimly through the screen of water. He peered out
                        beyond the narrow opening left for pedestrians and groaned.
                    "Taxi!" he frantically shouted to the doorman.
                    Some one tapped him on the shoulder. He started as if a gun had gone off at
                        his back. It was all up! For once the police were on the spot when A voice
                        was shouting:
                    "By thunder, I didn't think it was in you!"
                    He whirled to face, not the expected bluecoat, but the sallow detective.
                    "My God, how you startled me!"
                    "I'd have bet my last dollar you hadn't the nerve
                        to ahem! I I Say, take a tip from me. Beat it! Don't hang around
                        here waitin' for that girl. That guy in there is beginning to see
                        straight again, and if he was to bust out here and find you Well, it would
                        be something awful!"
                    "Get me a taxi, you infernal idiot!" roared the conqueror
                        in flight, addressing the starter.
                    
                    "Have one here in five minutes, sir," began the taxi
                        starter, grabbing up the telephone.
                    "Five minutes?" gasped Stuyvie, with a quick glance over
                        his shoulder. "Oh, Lord! Tell one of those chauffeurs out there
                        I'll give him ten dollars to run me to the Grand Central Station.
                        Hurry up!"
                    "The Grand Central?" exclaimed the detective.
                        "Great Scott, man, you don't have to beat it clear out of
                        town, you know. What are you going to the Station for?"
                    "For a taxi, you damn' fool," shouted Stuyvie.
                        "Say, who was that man in there?"
                    "Didn't you know him?"
                    "Never saw him in my life before, the blighter. Who is he?"
                    The detective stared. He opened his mouth to reply, and as suddenly closed
                        it. He, too, knew on which side his bread was precariously buttered.
                    "I don't know," he said.
                    "Well, the papers will give his name in the morning, and mine, too,
                        curse them," chattered Stuyvie.
                    "Don't you think it," said the other promptly.
                        "There won't be a word about it, take it from me. That
                        guy, whoever he is, ain't going to have the newspapers say he was
                        knocked down by a pinhead like you."
                    The insult passed unnoticed. Stuyvie was gazing, pop-eyed, at a man who
                        suddenly appeared at the mouth of the canopy, a tall fellow in a dripping
                        raincoat.
                    The newcomer's eyes were upon him. They were steady, unfriendly
                        eyes. He advanced slowly.
                    
                    "I sha'n't wait," said Stuyvie, and
                        swiftly passed out into the deluge. No other course was open to him. There
                        was trouble ahead and trouble behind.
                    Thomas Trotter laughed. The sallow-faced man made a trumpet of his hands and
                        shouted after the departing one:
                    "Beat it! He's coming!"
                    The retreating footsteps quickened into a lively clatter. Trotter distinctly
                        heard the sallow-faced man chuckle.
                    The Marchioness and Jane went home in the big Millidew limousine instead of
                        in a taxi. They left the restaurant soon after the departure of Stuyvesant
                        Smith-Parvis. The pensive-looking stranger from Scotland Yard came out close
                        upon their heels. He was looking for his American guide.
                    Trotter brought his car up to the awning and grinned broadly as he leaned
                        forward for "orders."
                    "Home, James," said Lady Jane, loftily.
                    "Very good, my lady," said Trotter.
                    The man from Scotland Yard squinted narrowly at the chauffeur's
                        face. He moved a few paces nearer and stared harder. For a long time after
                        the car had rolled away, he stood in the middle of the sidewalk, frowning
                        perplexedly. Then he shook his head and apparently gave it up. He went
                        inside to look for his friend.
                    The next day, the sallow-faced detective received instructions over the
                        telephone from one who refused to give his name to the operator. He was
                        commanded to keep close watch on the movements of a certain party, and to
                        await further orders.
                    
                    "I shall be out of town for a week or ten days," explained
                        young Mr. Smith-Parvis.
                    "I see," said the sallow-faced man. "Good idea.
                        That guy " But the receiver at the other end clicked rudely and
                        without ceremony.
                    Stuyvesant took an afternoon train for Virginia Hot Springs. At the
                        Pennsylvania Station he bought all of the newspapers, morning, noon and
                        night. There wasn't a line in any one of them about the fracas. He
                        was rather hurt about it. He was beginning to feel proud of his achievement.
                        By the time the train reached Philadelphia he had worked himself into quite
                        a fury over the way the New York papers suppress things that really ought to
                        be printed. Subsidized, that's what they were. Jolly well bribed.
                        He had given the fellow, whoever he was, a well-deserved drubbing, and the
                        world would never hear of it! Miss Emsdale would not hear of it. He very
                        much wished her to hear of it, too. The farther away he got from New York
                        the more active became the conviction that he owed it to himself to go back
                        there and thrash the fellow all over again, as publicly as possible, in
                        front of the Public Library at four o'clock in the afternoon, while
                        he was about it.
                    He had been at Hot Springs no longer than forty-eight hours when a long
                        letter came from his mother. She urged him to return to New York as soon as
                        possible. It was imperative that he should be present at a very important
                        dinner she was giving on Friday night. One of the most influential
                        politicians in New York was to be there, a man whose name was a  household word, and she was sure something
                        splendid would come of it.
                    "You must not fail me, dear boy," she wrote. "I
                        would not have him miss seeing you for anything in the world. Don't
                        ask me any questions. I can't tell you anything now, but I will say
                        that a great surprise is in store for my darling boy."
                    Meanwhile the nosy individual from Scotland Yard had not been idle. The
                        fleeting, all too brief glimpse he had had of the good-looking chauffeur in
                        front of Spangler's spurred him to sudden energy in pursuit of what
                        had long since shaped itself as a rather forlorn hope. He got out the
                        photograph of the youngster in the smart uniform of the Guard, and studied
                        it with renewed intensity. Mentally he removed the cocky little moustache so
                        prevalent in the Army, and with equal arrogance tried to put one on the
                        smooth-faced chauffeur. He allowed for elapsed time, and the wear and tear
                        of three years knocking about the world, and altered circumstances, and
                        still the resemblance persisted.
                    For a matter of ten months he had been seeking the young gentleman who bore
                        such a startling resemblance to the smiling chauffeur. He had traced him to
                        Turkey, into Egypt, down the East Coast of Africa, over to Australia, up to
                        Siam and China and Japan, across the Pacific to British Columbia, thence to
                        the United States, where the trail was completely lost. His quarry had a
                        good year and a half to two years the start of him.
                    Still, a chap he knew quite well in the Yard, after  chasing a man twice around the world, had nabbed him at the
                        end of six years. So much for British perseverance.
                    Inquiry had failed to produce the slightest enlightenment from the doorman or
                        the starter at Spangler's. He always remembered them as the
                        stupidest asses he had ever encountered. They didn't recognize the
                        chauffeur, nor the car, nor the ladies; not only were they unable to tell
                        him the number of the car, but they couldn't, for the life of them,
                        approximate the number of ladies. All they seemed to know was that some one
                        had been knocked down by a "swell" who was
                        "hotfooting it" up the street.
                    His sallow-faced friend, however, had provided him with an encouraging lead.
                        That worthy knew the ladies, but somewhat peevishly explained that it was
                        hardly to be expected that he should know all of the taxi-cab drivers in New
                        York, and as he had seen them arrive in a taxi-cab it was reasonable to
                        assume that they had departed in one.
                    "But it wasn't a taxi-cab," the Scotland Yard man
                        protested. "It was a blinking limousine."
                    "Then, all I got to say is that they're not the women I
                        mean. If I'd been out here when they left I probably could have put
                        you wise. But I was in there listenin' to what Con McFaddan was
                        sayin' to poor old Spangler. The woman I mean is a dressmaker. She
                        ain't got any more of a limmo than I have. Did you notice what they
                        looked like?"
                    The Scotland Yard man, staring gloomily up the rain-swept street, confessed
                        that he hadn't noticed anything but the chauffeur's face.
                    
                    "Well, there you are," remarked the sallow-faced man,
                        shrugging his shoulders in a patronizing, almost pitying way.
                    The Londoner winced.
                    "I distinctly heard the chauffeur say 'Very good, my
                        lady,'" he said, after a moment. "That was a bit
                        odd, wasn't it, now? You don't have any such things as
                        titles over 'ere, do you?"
                    "Sure. Every steamer brings one or two of 'em to our little
                        city."
                    The Englishman scratched his head. Suddenly his face brightened.
                    "I remember, after all, in a vague sort of way, don't you
                        know, that one of the ladies had white hair. I recall an instant's
                        speculation on my part. I remember looking twice to be sure that it was hair
                        and not a bit of lace thrown "
                    "That's the party," exclaimed the sallow-faced
                        man. "Now we're getting somewhere."
                    The next afternoon, the man from Scotland Yard paid a visit to
                        Deborah's. Not at all abashed at finding himself in a place where
                        all save angels fear to tread, he calmly asked to be conducted into the
                        presence of Mrs. Sparflight. He tactfully refrained from adding
                        "alias Deborah, Limited. London, Paris and New York." He
                        declined to state his business.
                    "Madam," said he, coming straight to the point the instant
                        he was ushered into the presence of the white-haired proprietress,
                        "I sha'n't waste your time, and mine, I may add,
                        by beating about the bush, as you Americans would say. I represent
                        "
                    "If you are an insurance agent or a book agent, you  need not waste any time at all,"
                        began Mrs. Sparflight. He held up his hand deprecatingly.
                    " Scotland Yard," he concluded, fixing his eyes upon her.
                        The start she gave was helpful. He went on briskly. "Last night you
                        were at a certain restaurant. You departed during the thunder-storm in a
                        limousine driven by a young man whose face is familiar to me. In short, I am
                        looking for a man who bears a most startling resemblance to him. May I
                        prevail upon you to volunteer a bit of information?"
                    Mrs. Sparflight betrayed agitation. A hunted, troubled look came into her
                        eyes.
                    "I I don't quite understand," she stammered.
                        "Who who did you say you were?"
                    "My name is Chambers, Alfred Chambers, Scotland Yard. In the event
                        that you are ignorant of the character of the place called Scotland Yard, I
                        may explain that "
                    "I know what it is," she interrupted hastily.
                        "What is it that you want of me, Mr. Chambers?" She was
                        rapidly gaining control of her wits.
                    "Very little, madam. I should very much like to know whose car took
                        you away from Sprinkler's last night."
                    She looked him straight in the eye. "I haven't the remotest
                        idea," she said.
                    He nodded his head gently. "Would you, on the other hand, object to
                        telling me how long James has been driving for her ladyship?"
                    This was a facer. Mrs. Sparflight's gaze wavered.
                    "Her ladyship?" she murmured weakly.
                    
                    "Yes, madam, unless my hearing was temporarily defective,"
                        he said.
                    "I don't know what you mean."
                    "Your companion was a young lady of "
                    "My good man," interrupted the lady sharply, "my
                        companion last night was my own private secretary."
                    "A Miss Emsdale, I believe," said he.
                    She gulped. "Precisely."
                    "Um!" he mused. "And you do not know whose car you
                        went off in, is that right?"
                    "I have no hesitancy in stating, Mr. Chambers, that the car does not
                        belong to me or to my secretary," she said, smiling.
                    "I trust you will pardon a seemingly rude question, Mrs. Sparflight.
                        Is it the custom in New York for people to take possession of private
                        automobiles "
                    "It is the custom for New York chauffeurs to pick up an extra dollar
                        or two when their employers are not looking," she interrupted, with
                        a shrug of her shoulders. She was instantly ashamed of her mendacity. She
                        looked over her shoulder to see if Mr. Thomas Trotter's sweetheart
                        was anywhere within hearing, and was relieved to find that she was not.
                        "And now, sir, if it is a fair question, may I inquire just what
                        this chauffeur's double has been doing that Scotland Yard should be
                        seeking him so assiduously?"
                    "He has been giving us a deuce of a chase, madam," said Mr.
                        Chambers, as if that were the gravest crime a British subject could possibly
                        commit. "By the way, did you by any chance obtain a fair look at
                        the man who drove you home last night?"
                    
                    "Yes. He seemed quite a good-looking fellow."
                    "Will you glance at this photograph, Mrs. Spar-flight, and tell me
                        whether you detect a resemblance?" He took a small picture from his
                        coat pocket and held it out to her.
                    She looked at it closely, holding it at various angles and distances, and
                        nodded her head in doubtful acquiescence.
                    "I think I do, Mr. Chambers. I am not surprised that you should have
                        been struck by the resemblance. This man was a soldier, I
                        perceive."
                    Mr. Chambers restored the photograph to his pocket.
                    "The King's Own," he replied succinctly.
                        "Perhaps your secretary may be able to throw a little more light on
                        the matter, madam. May I have the privilege of interrogating her?"
                    "Not today," said Mrs. Sparflight, who had anticipated the
                        request. "She is very busy."
                    "Of course I am in no position to insist," said he
                        pleasantly. "I trust you will forgive my intrusion, madam. I am
                        here only in the interests of justice, and I have no desire to cause you the
                        slightest annoyance. Permit me to bid you good day, Mrs. Sparflight. Thank
                        you for your kindness in receiving me. Tomorrow, if it is quite agreeable to
                        you, I shall call to see Miss Emsdale."
                    At that moment, the door opened and Miss Emsdale came into the little office.
                    "You rang for me, Mrs. Sparflight?" she inquired, with a
                        quick glance at the stranger.
                    Mrs. Sparflight blinked rapidly. "Not at all, not at all. I did not
                        ring."
                    
                    Miss Emsdale looked puzzled. "I am sure the buzzer "
                    "Pardon me," said Mr. Chambers, easily. "I fancy I
                        can solve the mystery. Accidentally, quite accidentally, I assure you, I put
                        my hand on the button on your desk, Mrs. Sparflight, while you were glancing
                        at the photograph. Like this, do you see?" He put his hand on the
                        top of the desk and leaned forward, just as he had done when he joined her
                        in studying the picture a few moments before.
                    A hot flush mounted to Mrs. Sparflight's face, and her eyes flashed.
                        The next instant she smiled.
                    "You are most resourceful, Mr. Chambers," she said.
                        "It happens, however, that your cleverness gains you nothing. This
                        young lady is one of our stenographers. I think I said that Miss Emsdale is
                        my private secretary. She has no connection whatever with
                        the business office. The button you inadvertently pressed simply disturbed
                        one of the girls in the next room. You may return to your work, Miss
                        Henry."
                    She carried it off very well. Jane, sensing danger, was on the point of
                        retiring, somewhat hurriedly, it must be confessed, when Mr. Chambers, in
                        his most apologetic manner, remarked:
                    "May I have a word with you, your ladyship?"
                    It was a bold guess, encouraged by his discovery that the young lady was not
                        only English but of a class distinctly remote from shops and stenography.
                    Under the circumstances, Jane may be forgiven for dissembling, even at the
                        cost of her employer's honour. She stopped short, whirled, and
                        confronted the stranger with a look in her eyes that convicted her
                        immediately.  Her hand flew to her heart, and
                        a little gasp broke from her parted lips.
                    Mr. Chambers was smiling blandly. She looked from him to Mrs. Sparflight,
                        utter bewilderment in her eyes.
                    "Oh, Lord!" muttered that lady in great dismay.
                    The man from Scotland Yard hazarded another and even more potential stroke
                        while the iron was hot.
                    "I am from Scotland Yard," he said. "We make some
                        mistakes there, I admit, but not many." He proceeded to lie boldly.
                        "I know who you are, my lady, and But it is not necessary to go
                        into that at pressent. Do not be alarmed. You have nothing to fear from me,
                        or from Scotland Yard. I "
                    "Well, I should hope not!" burst out Mrs.
                        Spar-flight indignantly.
                    "What does he want?" cried Jane, in trepidation. She
                        addressed her friend, but it was Mr. Chambers who answered.
                    "I want you to supply me with a little information concerning Lord
                        Eric Temple, whom you addressed last evening as James."
                    Jane began to tremble. Scotland Yard!
                    "The man is crazy," said Mrs. Sparflight, leaping into the
                        breach. "By what right, sir, do you come here to impose your
                        "
                    "No offence is intended, ma'am," broke in Mr.
                        Chambers. "Absolutely no offence. It is merely in the line of duty
                        that I come. In plain words, I have been instructed to apprehend Lord Eric
                        Temple and fetch him to London. You see, I am quite frank about it. You can
                        aid me by being as frank in return, ladies."
                    
                    By this time Jane had regained command of herself. Drawing herself up, she
                        faced the detective, and, casting discretion to the winds, took a most
                        positive and determined stand.
                    "I must decline, no matter what the cost may be to myself, to give
                        you the slightest assistance concerning Lord Temple."
                    To their infinite amazement, the man bowed very courteously and said:
                    "I shall not insist. Pardon my methods and my intrusion. I shall
                        trouble you no further. Good day, madam. Good day, your ladyship."
                    He took his leave at once, leaving them staring blankly at the closed door.
                        He was satisfied. He had found out just what he wanted to know, and he was
                        naturally in some haste to get out before they began putting embarrassing
                        questions to him.
                    "Oh, dear," murmured Jane, distractedly. "What are
                        we to do? Scotland Yard! That can mean but one thing. His enemies at home
                        have brought some vile, horrible charge against "
                    "We must warn him at once, Jane. There is no time to be lost.
                        Telephone to the garage where Mrs. Millidew "
                    "But the man doesn't know that Eric is driving for Mrs.
                        Millidew," broke in Jane, hopefully.
                    "He will know, and in very short order,"
                        said the other, sententiously. "Those fellows are positively
                        uncanny. Go at once and telephone." She hesitated a moment, looking
                        a little confused and guilty. "Lay aside your work, dear, for the
                        time being. There is nothing very urgent about it, you know."
                    
                    In sheer desperation she had that very morning set her restless charge to
                        work copying names out of the Social Register, names she
                        had checked off at random between the hours of ten and two the previous
                        night.
                    Jane's distress increased to a state bordering on anguish.
                    "Oh, dear! He he is out of town for two or three days."
                    "Out of town?"
                    "He told me last night he was to be off early this morning for Mrs.
                        Millidew's country place somewhere on Long Island. Mrs. Millidew
                        had to go down to see about improvements or repairs or something before the
                        house is opened for the season."
                    "Mrs. Millidew was in the shop this morning for a
                        'try-on,'" said the other. "She has
                        changed her plans, no doubt."
                    Jane's honest blue eyes wavered slightly as she met her
                        friend's questioning gaze.
                    "I think he said that young Mrs. Millidew was going down to look
                        after the work for her mother-in-law."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    FRIDAY EOR LUCK
                    THE "drawing-room" that evening lacked not only distinetion
                        but animation as well. To begin with, the attendance was small. The
                        Marchioness, after the usual collaboration with Julia in advance of the
                        gathering, received a paltry half-dozen during the course of the evening.
                        The Princess was there, and Count Antonio, (he rarely missed coming), and
                        the Hon. Mrs. Priestley-Duff. Lord Eric Temple and Lady Jane Thorne were
                        missing, as were Prince Waldemar de Bosky, Count Wilhelm von Blitzen and the
                        Countess du Bara. Extreme dulness prevailed. The Princess fell asleep, and,
                        on being roused at a seasonable hour, declared that her eyes had been
                        troubling her of late, so she kept them closed as much as possible on
                        account of the lights.
                    Mrs. Priestley-Duff, being greatly out-of-sorts, caustically remarked that
                        the proper way to treat bothersome eyes is to put them to bed in a
                        sound-proof room.
                    Cricklewick yawned in the foyer, Moody yawned in the outer hall, and McFaddan
                        in the pantry. The latter did not yawn luxuriously. There was something
                        half-way about it.
                    "Why don't you 'ave it out?" inquired
                        Moody, sympathetically, after solicitous inquiry. "They say the
                        bloomin' things are the cause of all the rheumatism we're
                        'aving nowadays. Is it a wisdom tooth?"
                    
                    "No," said McFaddan, with a suddenness that startled Moody;
                        "it ain't. It's a whole jaw. It's a
                        dam' fool jaw at that."
                    "Now that I look at you closer," said Moody critically,
                        "it seems to be a bit discoloured. Looks as though mortification
                        had set in."
                    "Ye never said a truer thing," said McFaddan.
                    "It set in last night."
                    The man from Scotland Yard waited across the street until he saw the lights
                        in the windows of the third, fourth and fifth floors go out, and then
                        strolled patiently away. Queer looking men and women came under his
                        observation during the long and lonely vigil, entering and emerging from the
                        darkened doorway across the street, but none of them, by any chance, bore
                        the slightest resemblance to the elusive Lord Temple, or "her
                        ladyship," the secretary. He made the quite natural error of
                        putting the queer looking folk down as tailors and seamstresses who worked
                        far into the night for the prosperous Deborah.
                    Two days went by. He sat at a window in the hotel opposite and waited for the
                        young lady to appear. On three separate occasions he followed her to Central
                        Park and back. She was a brisk walker. She had the free stride of the
                        healthy English girl. He experienced some difficulty in keeping her in
                        sight, but even as he puffed laboriously behind, he was conscious of a sort
                        of elation. It was good to see some one who walked as if she were in Hyde
                        Park.
                    For obvious reasons, his trailing was in vain. Jane did not meet Lord Temple
                        for the excellent reason that Thomas Trotter was down on Long Island with
                        the  beautiful Mrs. Millidew. And while both
                        Jane and Mrs. Sparflight kept a sharp lookout for Mr. Chambers, they failed
                        to discover any sign of him. He seemed to have abandoned the quest. They
                        were not lured into security, however. He would bob up, like
                        Jack-in-the-box, when least expected.
                    If they could only get word to Trotter! If they could only warn him of the
                        peril that stalked him!
                    Jane was in the depths She had tumbled swiftly from the great height to which
                        joy had wafted her; her hopes and dreams, and the castl***es they had built
                        ***so deftly, shrunk up and vanished in the cloud that hung ***like a pall
                        about her. Her faith in the man she loved ***was stronger than ever; nothing
                        could shatter that. No matter what Scotland Yard might say or do, actuated
                        by enemy injustice, she would never believe evil of him. And she would not
                        give him up!
                    ***"Marchioness," she said at the close of the second
                        ***day, her blue eyes clouded with the agony of suspense, ***is there not
                        some way to resist extradition? Can't we fight it? Surely it
                        isn't possible to take an innocent man out of this great, generous
                        country "
                    "My dear child," said the Marchioness, putting down her
                        coffee cup with so little precision that it clattered in the saucer,
                        "there isn't anything that Scotland Yard
                        cannot do." She spoke with an air of finality.
                    "I have been thinking," began Jane, haltingly. She paused
                        for a moment. An appealing, wistful note was in her voice when she resumed,
                        and her eyes were tenderly resolute. "He hasn't very much
                        money, you know, poor boy. I have been thinking, oh, I've been
                        thinking of so many things," she broke off confusedly.
                    
                    "Well, what have you been thinking?" inquired the other,
                        helpfully.
                    "It has occurred to me that I can get along very nicely on half of
                        what you are paying me,or even less. If it were not for the fact that my
                        poor brother depends solely upon me for support, I could spare practically
                        all of my salary to for "
                    "Go on," said the Marchioness gently.
                    "In any case, I can give Eric half of my salary if it will be of any
                        assistance to him, yes, a little more than half," said Jane, a
                        warm, lovely flush in her cheeks.
                    The Marchioness hastily pressed the serviette to her lips. She seemed to be
                        choking. It was some time before she could trust herself to say:
                    "Bless your heart, my dear, he wouldn't take it. Of
                        course," she went on, after a moment," it would please him
                        beyond words if you were to suggest it to him."
                    "I shall do more," said Jane, resolutely. "I shall
                        insist."
                    "It will tickle him almost to death," said the Marchioness,
                        again raising the napkin to her lips.
                    At twelve o'clock the next day, Trotter's voice came
                        blithely over the telephone.
                    "Are you there, darling? Lord, it seems like a century since I
                        "
                    "Listen, Eric," she broke in. "I have something
                        very important to tell you. Now, do listen are you there?"
                    "Right-o! Whisper it, dear. The telephone has a million ears. I want
                        to hear you say it, oh, I've been wanting "
                    
                    "It isn't that," she said. "You know I
                        do, Eric. But this is something perfectly terrible."
                    "Oh, I say, Jane, you haven't changed your mind about about
                        "
                    "As if I could," she cried. "I
                        love you more than ever, Eric. Oh, what a silly thing to say over the
                        telephone. I am blushing, I hope no one heard "
                    "Listen!" said he promptly, music in his voice.
                        "I'm just in from the country. I'll be down to
                        see you about five this afternoon. Tell you all about the trip. Lived like a
                        lord, homelike sort of feeling, eh? and"
                    "I don't care to hear about it," said Jane
                        stiffly. "Besides, you must not come here today, Eric. It is the
                        very worst thing you could do. He would be sure to see you."
                    "He? What he?" he demanded quickly.
                    "I can't explain. Listen, dear. Mrs. Sparflight and I have
                        talked it all over and we've decided on the best thing to
                        do."
                    And she poured into the puzzled young man's ear the result of
                        prolonged deliberations. He was to go to Bramble's Bookshop at half
                        past four, and proceed at once to the workshop of M. Mirabeau upstairs. She
                        had explained the situation to Mr. Bramble in a letter. At five
                        o'clock she would join him there. In the meantime, he was to keep
                        off of the downtown streets as much as possible.
                    "In the name of heaven, what's up?" he cried for
                        the third time, with variations.
                    "A a detective from Scotland Yard," she replied in a voice
                        so low and cautious that he barely caught  the
                        words. "I I can't say anything more now," she
                        went on rapidly. "Something tells me he is just outside the door,
                        listening to every word I utter."
                    "Wait!" he ordered. "A detective? Has that beastly
                        Smith-Parvis crowd dared to insinuate that you that you Oh, Lord, I
                        can't even say it!"
                    "I said 'Scotland Yard,' Eric," she said.
                        "Don't you understand?"
                    "No, I'm hanged if I do. But don't worry, dear.
                        I'll be at Bramble's and, by the lord Harry, if
                        they're trying to put up any sort of a Hello! Are you
                        there?"
                    There was no answer.
                    Needless to say, he was at Bramble's Bookshop on the minute, vastly
                        perturbed and eager for enlightenment.
                    "Don't stop down here an instant," commanded Mr.
                        Bramble, glancing warily at the front door. "Do as I tell you.
                        Don't ask questions. Go upstairs and wait, and don't show
                        yourself under any circumstance. Did you happen to catch a glimpse of him
                        any where outside?"
                    "The street is full of 'hims,'" retorted
                        Mr. Trotter in exasperation. "What the devil is all this about,
                        Bramby?"
                    "She will be here at five. There's nothing suspicious in
                        her coming in to buy a book. It's all been thought out. Most
                        natural thing in the world that she should buy a book, don't you
                        see? Only you must not be buying one at the same time. Now, run along,
                        lively. Prince de Bosky is with Mirabeau. And don't come down till
                        I give you the word."
                    
                    "See here, Bramble, if you let anything happen to her I'll
                        " Mr. Bramble relentlessly urged him up the steps.
                    Long before Jane arrived, Trotter was in possession of the details. He was
                        vastly perplexed.
                    "I daresay one of those beastly cousins of mine has trumped up some
                        charge that he figures will put me out of the running for ever," he
                        said gloomily. He sat, slack and dejected, in a corner of the shop farthest
                        removed from the windows. "I shouldn't mind so much if it
                        weren't for Lady Jane. She you see, M'sieur, she has
                        promised to be my wife. This will hurt her terribly. The beastly
                        curs!"
                    "Sit down!" commanded M. Mirabeau. "You must not
                        go raging up and down past those windows."
                    "Confound you, Mirabeau, he doesn't know this place exists.
                        He never will know unless he follows Lady Jane. I'll do as I jolly
                        well please."
                    De Bosky, inspired, produced a letter he had just received from his friend,
                        the cracksman. He had read it to the bookseller and clockmaker, and now
                        re-read it, with soulful fervour, for the benefit of the new arrival. He
                        interrupted himself to beg M. Mirabeau to unlock the safe and bring forth
                        the treasure.
                    "You see what he says?" cried he, shaking the letter in
                        front of Trotter's eyes. "And here is the money! See!
                        Touch it, my friend. It is real. I thought I was also dreaming. Count them.
                        Begin with this one. Now, one hundred, two hundred "
                    "I haven't the remotest idea what you're talking
                        about," said Trotter, staring blankly at the money.
                    "What a fool I am!" cried de Bosky. "I begin  at the back-end of the story. How could you
                        know? Have you ever known such a fool as I, Mirabeau?"
                    "Never," said M. Mirabeau, who had his ear cocked for
                        sounds on the stairway.
                    "And so," said the Prince, at the end of the hastily told
                        story of the banknotes and the man up the river, "you see how it
                        is. He replies to my carefully worded letter. Shall I read it again? No?
                        But, I ask you, my dear Trotter, how am I to carry out his instructions?
                        Naturally he is vague. All letters are read at the prison, I am informed. He
                        says: 'And anything you may have come acrosst among my effects is
                        so piffling that I hereby instructs you to burn it up, sos I won't
                        have to be bothered with it when I come out, which ain't fer some
                        time yet, and when I do get out I certainly am not coming to New York,
                        anyhow. I am going west and start all over again. A feller has got a better
                        chance out there.' That is all he has to say about this money,
                        Trotter. I cannot burn it. What am I to do?"
                    Trotter had an inspiration.
                    "Put it into American Tobacco," he said.
                    De Bosky stared. "Tobacco?"
                    "Simplest way in the world to obey instructions. The easiest way to
                        burn money is to convert it into tobacco. Slip down to Wall Street tomorrow
                        and invest every cent of this money in American Tobacco, register the stock
                        in the name of Henry Loveless and put it away for him. Save out enough for a
                        round-trip ticket to Sing Sing, and run up there some day and tell him what
                        you've done."
                    
                    "By Jove!" exclaimed de Bosky, his eyes dancing.
                        "But," he added, doubtfully, "what am I to do if
                        he doesn't approve?"
                    "Tell him put it in his pipe and smoke it," said the
                        resourceful Mr. Trotter.
                    "You know," said the other admiringly, "I have
                        never been one of those misguided persons who claim that the English have no
                        sense of humour. I "
                    "Sh!" warned M. Mirabeau from the top of the steps. And
                        then, like a true Frenchman, he bustled de Bosky out of the shop ahead of
                        him and closed the door, leaving Trotter alone among the ticking clocks.
                    Jane came swiftly up the steps, hurrying as if pursued. Mr. Bramble was
                        pledging something, in a squeaky undertone, from the store below.
                    " He may not have followed me," Jane called back in guarded
                        tones, "but if he has, Mr. Bramble, you must be sure to throw him
                        off the trail."
                    "Trust me, trust me implicitly," came in a strangled sort
                        of voice from the faithful ex-tutor.
                    "Oh, Eric, dearest! How you startled me!" cried Lady Jane a
                        moment later. She gasped the words, for she was almost smothered in the arms
                        of her lover.
                    "Forgive me," he murmured, without releasing her, an
                        oversight which she apparently had no immediate intention of resenting.
                    A little later on, she suddenly drew away from him, with a quick, embarrassed
                        glance around the noisy little shop. He laughed.
                    "We are quite alone, Jane dear, unless you count the clocks.
                        They're all looking at us, but they never  tell anything more than the time of day. And now, dear, what
                        is this beastly business?"
                    She closed the door to the stairway, very cautiously, and then came back to
                        him. The frown deepened in his eyes as he listened to the story she told.
                    "But why should I go into hiding?" he exclaimed, as she
                        stopped to get her breath. "I haven't done anything wrong.
                        What if they have trumped up some rotten charge against me? All the more
                        reason why I should stand out and defend "
                    "But, dear, Scotland Yard is such a dreadful place," she
                        cried, blanching. "They "
                    "Rubbish! I'm not afraid of Scotland Yard."
                    "You you're not?" she gasped, blankly.
                        "But, Eric dear, you must be afraid of Scotland
                        Yard. You don't know what you are saying."
                    "Oh, yes, I do. And as for this chap they've sent after me,
                        where is he? In two seconds I can tell him what's what.
                        He'll go humping back to London "
                    "I knew you would say something like that," she declared,
                        greatly perturbed. "But I sha'n't let you. Do you
                        hear, Eric? I sha'n't let you. You must hide. You must go
                        away from New York, tonight."
                    "And leave you?" he scoffed. "What can you be
                        thinking of, darling? Am I Sit down, dear, here beside me. You are
                        frightened. That internal brute has scared you almost out of "
                    "I am frightened, terribly frightened. So is the
                        Marchioness, and Mr. Bramble." She sat beside him on the bench. He
                        took her cold hands in his own and pressed them gently, encouragingly. His
                        eyes were very soft and tender.
                    
                    "Poor little girl!" For a long time he sat there looking at
                        her white, averted face. A slow smile slowly struggled to the corners of his
                        mouth. "I can't afford to run away," he said at
                        last. "I've just got to stick by my job. It means a lot to
                        me now, Jane dear."
                    She looked up quickly, her face clearing.
                    "I love you, Eric. I know you are innocent of anything they may
                        charge you with. I know it. And I would give all I have in
                        the world to help you in your hour of trouble. Listen, dear. I want you to
                        accept this in the right spirit. Don't let pride stand in the way.
                        It is really something I want to do, something that will make me oh, so
                        happy, if you will just let me do it. I am earning five guineas a week. It
                        is more than I need. Now, dear, just for a little while, until you have
                        found another place in some city far away from New York, you must let me
                        share my What is there to laugh at, Eric?" she cried in a hurt
                        voice.
                    He grew sober at once.
                    "I'm I'm sorry," he said. "Thank
                        you, and God bless you, Jane. It's fine. You're a brick.
                        But, but I can't accept it. Please don't say anything more
                        about it, dear. I just can't, that's all."
                    "Oh, dear," she sighed. "And and you refuse to go
                        away? You will not escape while there is yet "
                    "See here, dear," he began, his jaw setting," I am
                        not underrating the seriousness of this affair. They may have put up a beast
                        of a job on me. They fixed it so that I hadn't a chance three years
                        ago. Perhaps they've decided to finish the job and have done with
                        me for ever. I don't put it above them, curse them. Here's
                        the story in a nutshell. I have two cousins in the Army,  sons of my mother's sisters.
                        They're a pair of rotters. It was they who hatched up the scheme to
                        disgrace me in the service, and, by gad, they did it to the queen's
                        taste. I had to get out. There wasn't a chance for me to square
                        myself. I I sha'n't go into that, dear. You'll
                        understand why. It it hurts. Cheating at cards. That's enough,
                        isn't it? Well, they got me. My grandfather and I he is theirs as
                        well as mine, we never hit it off very well at best. My mother married Lord
                        Temple. Grandfather was opposed to the match. Her sisters did everything in
                        their power to widen the breach that followed the marriage. It may make it
                        easier for you to understand when I remind you that my grandfather is one of
                        the wealthiest peers in England.
                    "Odd things happen in life. When my father died, I went to Fenlew
                        Hall with my mother to live. Grandfather's heart had softened a
                        little, you see. I was Lord Eric Temple before I was six years old. My
                        mother died when I was ten. For fifteen years I lived on with Lord Fenlew,
                        and, while we rowed a good deal, he is a crochetty old tyrant, bless him! he
                        undoubtedly preferred me to either of my cousins. God bless him for that! He
                        showed his good sense, if I do say it who shouldn't.
                    "So they set to work. That's why I am here, without going
                        into details. That's why I am out of the Army. And I loved the
                        Army, Jane, God bless it! I used to pray for another war, horrible as it may
                        sound, so that I could go out and fight for England as those lads did who
                        went down to the bottom of Africa. I would cry myself to sleep because I was
                        so young then,  and so useless. I am not
                        ashamed of the tears you see in my eyes now. You can't understand
                        what it means to me, Jane."
                    He drew a deep breath, cleared his throat, and then went on.
                    "Lord Fenlew turned me out, disowned me. Don't blame the
                        old boy. They made out a good enough case against me. I was given the choice
                        of resigning from the regiment or well, the other thing. My father was
                        practically penniless when he died. I had nothing of my own. It was up to me
                        to earn an honest living, or go to the devil. I thought I'd try out
                        the former first. One can always go to the devil, you know. So off into the
                        far places of the earth I wandered, and I've steered pretty clear
                        of the devil up to date.
                    "It's easy to earn a living, dear, if you just half try.
                    "And now for this new complication. For the three years that I have
                        been away from England, not a single word have I sent home. I daresay they
                        know that I am alive, and that I'll turn up some day like the bad
                        penny. I was named in my grandfather's will. He once told me he
                        intended to leave the bulk of the unentailed property to me, not because he
                        loved me well but because he loved my two cousins not at all. For all I
                        know, he may never have altered his will. In that case, I still remain the
                        chief legatee and a source of tremendous uneasiness to my precious aunts and
                        their blackguard sons. It is possible, even probable, that they have decided
                        the safest place to have me is behind the bars, at least until Lord Fenlew
                        has changed his will for the last time and lies securely in the family  vault. I can think of no other explanation
                        for the action of Scotland Yard. But, don't worry, dear. I
                        haven't done anything wrong, and they can't stow me away
                        in "
                    "The beasts!" cried Jane, furiously.
                    He stroked her clenched fingers.
                    "I wouldn't call 'em names, dear," he
                        protested. "They're honest fellows, and simply doing
                        "
                    "They are the most despicable wretches on earth."
                    "You must be referring to my cousins. I thought "
                    "Now, Eric," she broke in firmly," I
                        sha'n't let you give yourself up. You owe something to me.
                        I Jone you with all my soul. If they were to take you back to London and and
                        put you in prison, I'd I'd die. I could not endure
                        " She suddenly broke down and, burying her face on his shoulder,
                        sobbed chokingly.
                    He was deeply distressed.
                    "Oh, I say, dearest, don't don't go under like
                        this. I I can't stand it. Don't cry, darling. It breaks my
                        heart to see you "
                    "I I can't help it," she sobbed. "Give
                        give me a little time. I'll be all right in a minute."
                    He whispered consolingly: "That's right. Take your time,
                        dear. I never dreamed you cared so much."
                    She looked up quickly, her eyes flashing through the tears.
                    "And do you care less for me, now that you see what a weak, silly
                        "
                    "Good Lord, no! I adore you more than ever. I Who's
                        there?"
                    
                    M. Mirabeau, coughing considerately, was rattling the latch of the door that
                        separated the shop from the store-room beyond. A moment later he opened the
                        door slowly and stuck his head through the aperture. Then, satisfied that
                        his warning cough had been properely received, he entered the shop. The
                        lovers were sitting bolt upright and some distance apart. Lady Jane was
                        arranging a hat that had been somehow forgotten up to that instant.
                    "A thousand pardons," said the old Frenchman, his voice
                        lowered. "We must act at once. Follow me, quickly, but as quietly
                        as possible. He is downstairs. I have listened from the top of the steps.
                        Poor old Bramble is doing his best to divert him. I have just this instant
                        heard the villain announce that his watch needs looking into, and from that
                        I draw a conclusion. He will come to my shop in spite of all that Bramble
                        can do. Come! I know the way to safety."
                    "But I'm not going to hide," began Trotter.
                    Jane seized his arm and dragged him toward the door.
                    "Yes, you are," she whispered fiercely. "You
                        belong to me, Eric Temple. I shall do what I like with you. Don't
                        be mulish, dear. I sha'n't leave you, not for anything in
                        the world."
                    "Bravo!" whispered M. Mirabeau.
                    Swiftly they stole through the door and past the landing. Scraps of
                        conversation from below reached their ears. Jane's clutch tightened
                        on her lover's arm. She recognized the voice of Mr. Alfred
                        Chambers.
                    "De Bosky will do the rest," whispered the clock-maker, as
                        they were joined by the musician at the far 
                        end of the stock-room. "I must return to the shop. He will suspect
                        at once if I am not at work when he appears, for appear he will, you may be
                        sure."
                    He was gone in a second. De Bosky led them into the adjoining room and
                        pointed to a tall step-ladder over in the corner. A trap-door in the ceiling
                        was open, and blackness loomed beyond.
                    "Go up!" commanded the agitated musician, addressing
                        Trotter. "It is an air-chamber. Don't break your head on
                        the rafters. Follow close behind, Lady Jane. I will hold the ladder. Close
                        the trap after you, and do not make a sound after you are once up there.
                        This is the joiliest moment of my life! I was never so thrilled. It is
                        beautiful! It is ravishing! Sh! Don't utter a word, I command you!
                        We will foil him, we will foil old Scotland Yard. Be quick! Splendid! You
                        are wonderful, Mademoiselle. Such courage, such grace, such Sh! I take the
                        ladder away! Ha, he will never suspect. He "
                    "But how the deuce are we to get down from here?" groaned
                        Trotter in a penetrating whisper from aloft.
                    "You can't get down, but as he can't get up, why
                        bother your head about that? Close the trap!"
                    "Oh-h!" shuddered Jane, in an ecstasy of excitement. She
                        was kneeling behind her companion, peering down through the square little
                        opening into which he had drawn her a moment before.
                    Trotter cautiously lowered the trap-door, and they were in Stygian darkness.
                        She repeated the exclamation, but this time it was a sharp, quick gasp of
                        dismay.
                    For a long time they were silent, listening for sounds  from below. At last he arose to his feet. His head came in
                        contact with something solid. A smothered groan escaped his lips.
                    "Good Lord! Be careful, dear! There's not more than four
                        feet head-room. Sit still till I find a match."
                    "Are you hurt? What a dreadful bump it was. I wonder if he could
                        have heard?"
                    "They heard it in heaven," he replied, feeling his head.
                    "How dark it is," she shuddered. "Don't
                        you dare move an inch from my side, Eric. I'll scream."
                    He laughed softly. "By Jove, it's rather a jolly lark,
                        after all. A wonderful place this is for sweethearts." He dropped
                        down beside her.
                    After a time, she whispered: "You mentioned a match, Eric."
                    "So I did," said he, and proceeded to go through the pocket
                        in which he was accustomed to carry matches. "Thunderation! The box
                        is empty."
                    She was silent for a moment. "I really don't mind,
                        dear."
                    "I remember saying this morning that I never have any luck on
                        Friday," said he resignedly. "But," he added, a
                        happy note in his voice, "I never dreamed there was such luck as
                        this in store for me."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    FRIDAY FOR BAD LUCK
                    SPEAKING of Friday and the mystery of luck. Luck is supposed to shift in one
                        direction or another on the sixth day of every week in the year. It is
                        supposed to shift for everybody. A great many people are either too ignorant
                        or too supercilious to acknowledge this vast and oppressive truth, however.
                        They regard Friday as a plain, ordinary day, and go on being fatuously
                        optimistic.
                    On the other hand, when it comes Friday, the capable and the far-seeing are
                        prone to accept it as it was intended by the Creator, who, from confidential
                        reports, paused on the sixth day (as we reckon it) of his labours and looked
                        back on what already had been accomplished. He was dissatisfied. He set to
                        work again. Right then and there Friday became an unlucky day, according to
                        a great many philosophers. If the Creator had stopped then and let
                        well-enough alone, there wouldn't have been any cause for
                        complaint. He would have failed to create Adam (an afterthought), and the
                        human race, lacking existence, would not have been compelled to put up with
                        life, which is a mess, after all.
                    If more people would pause to consider the futility of living between
                        Thursday and Saturday, a great deal of woe and misfortune might be avoided.
                    For example, when Mrs. Smith-Parvis called on 
                        Mrs. McFaddan on the Monday of the week that is now making history through
                        these pages, she completely overlooked the fact that there was a Friday
                        still to be reckoned with.
                    True, she had in mind a day somewhat more remote when, after coming face to
                        face with the blooming Mrs. McFaddan who happened to open her own front
                        door, it being Maggie's day out, she had been compelled to
                        substitute herself in person for the cards she meant to leave. Mrs. McFaddan
                        had cordially sung out to her from the front stoop, over the head of the
                        shocked footman, that she was at home and would Mrs. Smith-Parvis please
                        step in.
                    Thursday, two weeks hence, was the day Mrs. Smith-Parvis had in mind. She had
                        not been in the McFaddan parlour longer than a minute and a half before she
                        realized that an invitation by word of mouth would do quite as well as an
                        expensively engraved card by post. There was nothing formal about Mrs.
                        McFaddan. She was sorry that Con wasn't home; he would hate like
                        poison to have missed seeing Mrs. Smith-Parvis when she did them the honour
                        to call. But Con was not likely to be in before seven, he was that busy,
                        poor man, and it would be asking too much of Mrs. Smith-Parvis to wait till
                        then.
                    So, the lady from the upper East Side had no hesitancy in asking the lady
                        from the lower West Side to dine with her on Thursday the nineteenth.
                    "I am giving a series of informal dinners, Mrs. McFadden,"
                        she explained graciously.
                    "They're the nicest kind," returned Mrs. McFaddan,
                        somewhat startled by the pronunciation of her husband's  good old Irish name. She knew little or
                        nothing of French, but somehow she rather liked the emphasis, crisply nasal,
                        her visitor put upon the final syllable. Before the visit came to an end,
                        she was mentally repeating her own name after Mrs. Smith-Parvis, and
                        wondering whether Con would stand for it.
                    "What date did you say?" she inquired, abruptly breaking in
                        on a further explanation. The reply brought a look of disappointment to her
                        face. "We can't come," she said flatly.
                        "We're leaving on Saturday this week for Washington to be
                        gone till the thirtieth. Important business, Con says."
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis thought quickly. Washington, eh?
                    "Could you come on Friday night of this week, Mrs.
                        McFad-dan?"
                    "We could," said the other. "Don't you
                        worry about Con cooking up an excuse for not coming, either. He does just
                        about what I tell him."
                    "Splendid!" said Mrs. Smith-Parvis, arising.
                        "Friday at 8: 30."
                    "Have plenty of fish," said Mrs. McFaddan gaily.
                    "Fish?" faltered the visitor.
                    "It's Friday, you know."
                    Greatly to Mrs. Smith-Parvis's surprise, and in two or three cases,
                        irritation, every one she asked to meet the McFaddans on Friday accepted
                        with alacrity. She asked the Dodges, feeling confident that they
                        couldn't possibly be had on such short notice, and the same with
                        the Bittinger-Stuarts. They did have previous engagements, but they promptly
                        cancelled them. It struck her as odd, and later on significant  that, without exception, every woman she
                        asked said she was just dying for a chance to have a little private
                        "talk" with the notorious Mr. McFaddan.
                    People who had never arrived at a dinner-party on time in their lives,
                        appeared on Friday at the Smith-Parvis home all the way from five to fifteen
                        minutes early.
                    The Cricklewicks were not asked. Mr. Smith-Parvis remembered in time that the
                        Irish hate the English, and it wouldn't do at all.
                    Mr. McFaddan and his wife were the last to arrive. They were so late that not
                        only the hostess but most of her guests experienced a sharp fear that they
                        wouldn't turn up at all. There were side glances at the clock on
                        the mantel, surreptitious squints at wrist-watches, and a queer, unnatural
                        silence while the big clock in the upper hall chimed a quarter to nine.
                    "Really, my dear," said Mrs. Dodge, who had the New York
                        record for tardiness, an hour and three-quarters, she claimed," I
                        can't understand people being late for a dinner, unless, of course,
                        they mean to be intentionally rude."
                    "I can't imagine what can have happened to them,"
                        said Mrs. Smith-Parvis nervously.
                    "Accident on the Subway, no doubt," drawled Mr.
                        Bittinger-Stuart, and instantly looked around in a startled sort of way to
                        see if there was any cause for repenting the sarcasm.
                    "Where is Stuyvesant?" inquired Mrs. Millidew the elder,
                        who had arrived a little late. She had been obliged to call a taxi-cab at
                        the last moment on account of the singular defection of her new chauffeur,
                        who,  she proclaimed on entering, was to have
                        his walking papers in the morning. Especially as it was raining pitchforks.
                    "He is dressing, my dear," explained Stuyvesant's
                        mother, with a maternal smile of apology.
                    "I should have known better," pursued Mrs. Millidew, still
                        chafing," than to let him go gallivanting off to Long Island with
                        Dolly."
                    "I said he was dressing, Mrs. Millidew," said Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis stiffly.
                    "If I could have five minutes alone with Mr. Mc-Faddan,"
                        one of the ladies was saying to the host, "I know I could interest
                        him in our plan to make Van Cortlandt Park the most attractive and the most
                        exclusive country club in "
                    "My dear," interrupted another of her sex," if you
                        get him off in a corner and talk to him all evening about that ridiculous
                        scheme of yours, I'll murder you. You know how long Jim has been
                        working to get his brother appointed judge in the United States District
                        Court, his brother Charlie, you know, the one who doesn't amount to
                        much, and I'll bet my last penny I can fix it if "
                    "It's an infernal outrage," boomed Mr. Dodge,
                        addressing no one in particular. "Yes, sir, a pernicious
                        outrage."
                    "As I said before, the more you do for them the worse they treat you
                        in return," agreed Mrs. Millidew. "It doesn't
                        pay. Treat them like dogs and they'll be decent. If you try to be
                        kind and "
                    Mr. Dodge expanded.
                    "You see, it will cut straight through the centre of  the most valuable piece of unimproved
                        property in New York City. It isn't because I happen to be the
                        owner of that property that I'm complaining. It's the
                        highhanded way Now, look! This is the Grand Concourse, and here is Bunker
                        Avenue." He produced an invisible diagram with his foot, jostling
                        Mr. Smith-Parvis off of the rug in order to extend the line beyond the
                        intersection to a point where the proposed street was to be opened.
                        "Right smack through this section of"
                    At that instant Mr. and Mrs. McFaddan were announced.
                    "Where the deuce is Stuyvie?" Mr. Smith-Parvis whispered
                        nervously into the ear of his wife as the new arrivals approached.
                    "Diplomacy," whispered she succinctly. "All for
                        effect. Last but not least. He Good evening, dear Mrs. McFad-dan!"
                    In the main hall, a moment before, Mr. McFaddan had whispered in his wife's ear. He transmitted an opinion of Peasley the
                        footman.
                    "He's a mutt." He had surveyed Peasley with a
                        discriminating and intensely critical eye, taking him in from head to foot.
                        "Under-gardener or vicar's man-of-all-work. Trained in a
                        Sixth Avenue intelligence office. Never saw livery till he "
                    "Hush, Con! The man will hear you."
                    "And if he should, he can't accuse me of betrayin'
                        a secret."
                    To digress for a moment, it is pertinent to refer to ***the strange cloud of
                        preoccupation that descended upon Mr. McFaddan during the ride uptown, not
                        in the  Subway, but in his own Packard
                        limousine. Something back in his mind kept nagging at him, something elusive
                        yet strangely fresh, something that had to do with recent events. He could
                        not rid himself of the impression that the Smith-Parvises were in some way
                        involved.
                    Suddenly, as they neared their destination, the fog lifted and his mind was
                        as clear as day. His wife's unctuous reflections were shattered by
                        the force of the explosion that burst from his lips. He remembered
                        everything. This was the house in which Lady Jane Thorne was employed, and
                        it was the seion thereof who had put up the job on young Trotter. Old
                        Crickle-wick had come to see him about it and had told him a story that made
                        his blood boil. It was all painfully clear to him now.
                    Their delay in arriving was due to the protracted argument that took place
                        within a stone's throw of the Smith-Parvis home. Mr. McFaddan
                        stopped the car and flatly refused to go an inch farther. He would be hanged
                        if he'd have anything to do with a gang like that! His wife began
                        by calling him a goose. Later on she called him a mule, and still later, in
                        sheer exasperation, a beast. He capitulated. He was still mumbling
                        incoherently as they mounted the steps and were admitted by the deficient
                        Peasley.
                    "What shall I say to the dirty spalpeen if he tries to shake hands
                        with me?" Mr. McFaddan growled, three steps from the top.
                    "Say anything you like," said she," but, for
                        God's sake, say it under your breath."
                    
                    However: the party was now complete with one notable exception. Stuyvie was
                        sound asleep in his room. He had reached home late that afternoon and was in
                        an irascible frame of mind. He didn't know the McFad-dans, and he
                        didn't care to know them. Dragging him home from Hot Springs to
                        meet a cheap bounder, what the deuce did she mean anyhow, entertaining that
                        sort of people? And so on and so forth until his mother lost her temper and
                        took it out on the maid who was dressing her hair.
                    Peasley was sent upstairs to inform Mr. Stuyvesant that they were waiting for
                        him.
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis met her son at the foot of the stairs when he came lounging
                        down. He was yawning and making futile efforts to smooth out the wrinkles in
                        his coat, having reposed soundly in it for the better part of an hour.
                    "You must be nice to Mr. McFad-dn," said she anxiously.
                        "He has a great deal of influence with the powers that
                        be."
                    He stopped short, instantly alert.
                    "Has a a warrant been issued?" he demanded, leaping to a
                        very natural and sickening conclusion as to the identity of the
                        "powers."
                    "Not yet, of course," she said, benignly. "It is a
                        little too soon for that. But it will come, dear boy, if we can get Mr.
                        McFad-dn on our side. That is to be the lovely surprise I spoke about in my
                        "
                    "You you call that lovely?" he snapped.
                    "If everything goes well, you will soon be at the Court of St.
                        James. Wouldn't you call that lovely?"
                    
                    He was perspiring freely. "My God, that's just the thing
                        I'm trying to avoid. If they get me into court, they'll
                        "
                    "You do not understand. The diplomatic court, corps, I mean. You are
                        to go to London, into the legation. The rarest opportunity "
                    "Oh, Lord!" gasped Stuyvesant, passing his hand over his
                        wet brow. A wave of relief surged over him. He leaned against the banister,
                        weakly. "Why didn't you say that in the first
                        place?"
                    "You must be very nice to Mr. McFad-dan," she said, taking
                        his arm. "And to Mrs. McFad-dan also. She is rather stunning and
                        quite young."
                    "That's nice," said Stuyvie, regaining a measure
                        of his tolerant, blas air.
                    Now, while the intelligence of the reader has long since grasped the fact
                        that the expected is about to happen, it is only fair to state that the
                        swiftly moving events of the next few minutes were totally unexpected by any
                        one of the persons congregated in Mrs. Smith-Parvis's drawing-room.
                    Stuyvesant entered the room, a forced, unamiable smile on his lips. He nodded
                        in the most casual, indifferent manner to those nearest the door. It was
                        going to be a dull, deadly evening. The worst lot of he-fossils and
                        scrawny-necked 
                    "For the love o' Mike!"
                    Up to that instant, one could have dropped a ten-pound weight on the floor
                        without attracting the slightest attention. For a second or two following
                        the shrill ejaculation, the crash of the axiomatic pin could have been heard
                        from one end of the room to the others.
                    
                    Every eye, including Stuyvie's, was fixed upon the shocked,
                        surprised face of the lady who uttered the involuntary exclamation.
                    Mrs. McFaddan was staring wildly at the newcomer. Stuyvesant recognized her
                        at once. The dashing, vivid face was only too familiar. In a flash the whole
                        appalling truth was revealed to him. An involuntary "Oh,
                        Lord!" oozed from his lips.
                    Cornelius McFaddan suddenly clapped his hand to his mouth, smothering the
                        words that surged up from the depths of his injured soul. He became quite
                        purple in the face.
                    "This is my son Stuyvesant, Mr. McFaddan," said Mrs.
                        Smith-Parvis, in a voice strangely faint and faltering. And then, sensing
                        catastrophe, she went on hurriedly: "Shall we go in to dinner? Has
                        it been announced, Rogers?"
                    Mr. McFaddan removed his hand.
                    The hopes and ambitions, the desires and schemes of every one present went
                        hurtling away on the hurricane of wrath that was liberated by that
                        unfortunate action of Cornelius McFaddan. An unprejudiced observer would
                        have expained, in justice to poor Cornelius, that the force of the storm
                        blew his hand away, willy-nilly, despite his heroic efforts to check the
                        resistless torrent.
                    I may be forgiven for a confessed inadequacy to cope with a really great
                        situation. My scope of delivery is limited. In a sense, however,
                        short-comings of this nature are not infrequently blessings. It would be a
                        pity for me or any other upstart to spoil, through sheer feebleness of
                        expression, a situation demanding the incomparable virility of a Cornelius
                        McFaddan.
                    
                    Suffice to say, Mr. McFaddan left nothing to the imagination. He had the
                        stage to himself, and he stood squarely in the centre of it for what seemed
                        like an age to the petrified audience. As a matter of fact, it was all over
                        in three minutes. He was not profane. At no time did he forget there were
                        ladies present. But from the things he said, no one doubted, then or
                        afterwards, that the presence of ladies was the only thing that stood
                        between Stuyvesant Smith-Parvis and an unhallowed grave.
                    It may be enlightening to repeat his concluding remark to Stuyvie.
                    "And if I thought ye'd even dream of settin' foot
                        outside this house I'd gladly stand on the sidewalk in the rain,
                        without food or drink, for forty-eight hours, waitin' for
                        ye."
                    And as that was the mildest thing he said to Stuyvie, it is only fair to
                        state that Peasley, who was listening in the hall, hastily opened the front
                        door and looked up and down the street for a policeman. With commendable
                        foresight, he left it ajar and retired to the foot of the stairs, hoping,
                        perhaps, that Stuyvesant might undertake to throw the obnoxious guest into
                        the street, in which case it would be possible for him to witness the
                        whirlwind without being in the path of it.
                    To Smith-Parvis, Senior, the eloquent McFaddan addressed these parting words:
                    "I don't know what you had in mind when you invited me
                        here, Mr. Smith-Parvis, but whatever it was you needn't worry about
                        it, not for a minute. Put it out of your mind altogether, my good man. And
                             if I've told you anything at all
                        about this pie-faced son of yours that ye didn't already know or
                        suspect, you're welcome to the information. He's a bad
                        egg, and if ye don't believe me, ask Lady Jane Thorne, if she
                        happens to be about."
                    He spoke without thinking, but he did no harm. No one there had the remotest
                        idea who he meant when he referred to Lady Jane Thorne.
                    "Come, Peggy, we'd better be going," he said to
                        his wife. "If we want a bite o' dinner, I guess
                        we'll have to go over to Healy's and get it."
                    Far in the night, Mrs. Smith-Parvis groaned. Her husband, who sat beside her
                        bed and held her hand with somnolent devotion, roused himself and inquired
                        if the pain was just as bad as ever.
                    She groaned again.
                    He patted her hand soothingly. "There, there, now, go to sleep
                        again. You'll be all right "
                    "Again?" she cried plaintively. "How can you say
                        such a thing? I haven't closed my eyes."
                    "Oh, my dear," he expostulated. "You've
                        been sound asleep for "
                    "I have not!" she exclaimed. "My poor head is
                        splitting. You know I haven't been asleep, so why will you persist
                        in saying that I have?"
                    "At any rate," said he, taking up a train of thought that
                        had become somewhat confused and unstable by passing through so many
                        cat-naps, "we ought to be thankful it isn't worse. The
                        dear boy might have gone to the electric chair if we had permitted him to
                        follow the scoundrel to the sidewalk."
                    Mrs. Smith-Parvis turned her face toward him. A  spark of enthusiasm flashed for an instant in her tired eyes.
                    "How many times did he knock him down at
                        Span-gler's?" she inquired.
                    "Four," said Mr. Smith-Parvis, proudly.
                    "And that dreadful woman was the cause of it all, writing notes to
                        Stuyvesant and asking him to meet her What was it Stuyvesant called
                        them?"
                    "Crush-notes, Angie. Now, try to go to sleep, dearie."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    FROM DARKNESS TO LIGHT
                    GOODNESS! What's that?" whispered Lady Jane, starting
                        violently.
                    For what seemed to them many hours, she and Thomas Trotter had sat, quite
                        snugly comfortable, in the dark air-chamber. Comfortable, I say, but I fear
                        that the bewildering joy of having her in his arms rendered him impervious
                        to what under other conditions would most certainly have been a severe
                        strain upon his physical endurance. In other words, she rested very
                        comfortably and cosily in the crook of his arm, her head against his
                        shoulder, while he, sitting bolt upright with no support whatsoever But why
                        try to provide him with cause for complaint when he was so obviously
                        contented?
                    Her suppressed exclamation followed close upon the roar and crash of an
                        ear-splitting explosion. The reverberation rolled and rumbled and dwindled
                        away into the queerest silence. Almost immediately the clatter of falling
                        debris assailed their ears. She straightened up and clutched his arm
                        convulsively.
                    "Rain," he said, with a short laugh. For an instant his
                        heart had stood still. So appalling was the crash that he involuntarily
                        raised an arm to shield his beloved companion from the shattered walls that
                        were so soon to tumble about their ears. "Beating on the tin
                        roof," he went on, jerkily.
                    
                    "Oh, wasn't it awful?" she gasped, in smothered
                        tones. "Are you sure?"
                    "I am now," he replied, "but, by Jove, I
                        wasn't a second or two ago. Lord, I thought it was all
                        over."
                    "If we could only see!" she cried nervously.
                    "Any how," he said, with a reassuring chuckle, "we
                        sha'n't get wet."
                    By this time the roar of rain on the roof so close to their heads was
                        deafening.
                    "Goodness, Eric, it's it's leaking here,"
                        she cried out suddenly, after a long silence.
                    "That's the trouble with these ramshackle old Oh, I say,
                        Jane, your frock! It will be ruined. My word! The confounded roof's
                        like a sieve."
                    He set out, on all fours, cautiously to explore.
                    "I I am frightfully afraid of thunder," she cried out after
                        him, a quaver in her voice. "And, Eric, wouldn't it be
                        dreadful if the building were to be struck by lightning and we should be
                        found up here in this this unexplainable loft? What could
                        we say?"
                    "Nothing, dearest," he replied, consolingly. "That
                        is, provided the lightning did its work properly. Ouch! It's all
                        right! Don't bother, dear. Nothing but a wall. Seems dry over here.
                        Don't move. I'll come back for you."
                    "It's it's rather jolly, isn't
                        it?" she cried nervously as his hand touched her shoulder. She
                        grasped it eagerly. "Much jollier than if we could see." A
                        few moments later: "Isn't it nice and dry over here. How
                        clever of you, Eric, to find it in the dark."
                    On their hands and knees they had crept to the place of shelter, and were
                        seated on a broad, substantial beam  with
                        their backs against a thin, hollow-sounding partition. The journey was not
                        without incident. As they felt their way over the loose and sometimes widely
                        separated boards laid down to protect the laths and plaster of the ceiling
                        below, his knee slipped off and before he could prevent it, his foot struck
                        the lathing with considerable force.
                    "Clumsy ass!" he muttered.
                    After a long time, she said to him, a little pathetic-ally:
                    "I hope M. Mirabeau doesn't forget we are up
                        here."
                    "I should hope not," he said fervently. "Mrs.
                        Mil-lidew is going out to dinner this evening. I'd "
                    "Oh-h!" she whispered tensely. "Look!"
                    A thin streak of light appeared in front of them. Fascinated, they watched it
                        widen, slowly, relentlessly.
                    The trap-door was being raised from below. A hand and arm came into view, the
                        propelling power.
                    "Is that you, de Bosky?" called out Trotter, in a
                        penetrating whisper.
                    Abruptly the trap flew wide open and dropped back on the scantlings with a
                        bang.
                    The head and shoulders of a man, a bald-headed man, at that, rose quickly
                        above the ledge, and an instant later a lighted lantern followed.
                    "Oh, dear!" murmured Lady Jane, aghast. "It it
                        isn't Mr. de Bosky, Eric. It's that man."
                    "I beg your pardon, Lord Temple," said Mr. Alfred Chambers,
                        setting the lantern down in order to brush the dust off of his hands.
                        "Are you there?"
                    "What is the meaning of this, sir?" demanded the  young man on the beam, blinking rapidly in
                        the unaccustomed glare.
                    Mr. Chambers rested his elbows on the ledge. The light of the lantern shone
                        full on his face, revealing the slow but sure growth of a joyous grin.
                    "Permit me to introduce myself, your lordship. Mr. Alfred Chambers,
                        of "
                    "I know, I know!" broke in the other impatiently.
                        "What the devil do you want?"
                    "Good evening, Miss Emsdale," said Mr. Chambers,
                        remembering his manners. "That is to say, your ladyship.
                        'Pon my word, you can't possibly be more surprised than I
                        am, either of you. I shouldn't have dreamed of looking in this this
                        stuffy hole for for anything except bats." He chortled.
                    "I can't understand why some one below there
                        doesn't knock that ladder from under you," said Mr.
                        Trotter rudely.
                    "I was on the point of giving up in despair," went on Mr.
                        Chambers, unoffended. "You know, I shouldn't have thought
                        of looking up here for you."
                    His quarry bethought himself of the loyal, conspiring friends below.
                    "See here, Mr. Chambers," he began earnestly, "I
                        want you to understand that those gentlemen downstairs are absolutely
                        innocent of any criminal complicity in "
                    "I understand perfectly," interrupted the man from Scotland
                        Yard. "Perfectly. And the same applies to her ladyship.
                        Everything's as right as rain, your lordship. Will you be so good,
                        sir, as to come down at once?"
                    
                    "Certainly," cried the other. "With the greatest
                        pleasure. Come, Jane,"
                    "Wait!" protested Jane. "I
                        sha'n't move an inch until he promises to to listen to
                        reason. In the first place, this gentleman is a Mr. Trotter," she
                        went on rapidly, addressing the head and shoulders behind the lantern.
                        "You will get yourself into a jolly lot of trouble if you
                        "
                    "Thanks, Jane dear," interrupted her lover gently.
                        "It's no use. He knows I am Eric Temple, so we'll
                        just have to make the best of it."
                    "He doesn't know anything of the kind," said she.
                        "He noticed a resemblance, that's all."
                    Mr. Chambers beamed.
                    "Quite so, your ladyship. I noticed it at once. If I do say it
                        myself, there isn't a man in the department who has anything on me
                        when it comes to that sort of thing. The inspector has frequently mentioned
                        "
                    "By the way, Mr. Snooper, will you be kind enough to"
                    "Chambers, your lordship," interrupted the detective.
                    "Kind enough to explain how you discovered that we were up
                        here?"
                    "Well, you see we were having our coffee, after a most excellent
                        dinner, your lordship, prepared, I am bound to say, for your discussion by
                        the estimable Mr. Bramble,"
                    "Dinner? By George, you remind me that I am ravenously hungry. It
                        must be quite late."
                    "Half-past eight, sir, approximately. As I was saying, we were
                        enjoying our coffee, the three of us only"
                    
                    Trotter made a wry face. "In that case, Mrs. Millidew will sack me
                        in the morning, Jane. I had orders for eight sharp."
                    "It really shouldn't matter, your lordship," said
                        Mr. Chambers cheerfully. "Not in the least, if I may be so bold as
                        to say so. However, to continue, sir. Or rather, to go back a little if I
                        may. You see, I was rather certain you were hiding somewhere about the
                        place. At least, I was certain her ladyship was. She came in and she
                        didn't go out, if you see what I mean. I insisted on my right to
                        search the premises. Do you follow me, sir?"
                    "Reluctantly."
                    "In due time, I came to the little diming-room, where I discovered
                        the cook preparing dinner. You were not in evidence, your ladyship. I do not
                        mind in the least confessing that I was ordered out by the cook. I retired
                        to the clock-shop of M. Mirabeau and sat down to wait. The Polish young
                        gentleman was there. As time went on, Mr. Bramble joined us. They were
                        extremely ill-at-ease, your lordship, although they tried very hard to
                        appear amused and unconcerned. The slightest noise caused them to fidget.
                        Once, to test them, I stealthily dropped my pocket knife on the floor. Now,
                        you would say, wouldn't you, that so small an object as a pen-knife
                        but that's neither here nor there. They jumped, every blessed one
                        of them. Presently the young Polish gentleman, whose face is strangely
                        familiar to me, I must have seen him in London, announced that he was
                        obliged to depart. A little later on, you see, it was quite dark by this
                        time, the clockmaker prepared to close up for the  night. Mr. Bramble looked at his watch two or three times in
                        rapid succession, notwithstanding the fact that he was literally surrounded
                        by clocks. He said he feared he would have to go and see about the dinner,
                        and would I kindly get out. I "
                    "They should have called in the police," interrupted his
                        male listener indignantly. "That's what I should have
                        done, confound your impudence."
                    "Ah, now there is a point I should have touched
                        upon before," explained Mr. Chambers, casting an uneasy glance down
                        into the room below. "I may as well confess to you, quite privately
                        and confidentially, of course, your lordship, that I er rather deceived the
                        old gentlemen. Do not be alarmed. I am quite sure they can't hear
                        what I am saying. You see, I told them in the beginning that I had
                        surrounded the place with policemen and plain-clothes men. They 
                    "And hadn't you?" demanded Mr. Trotter quickly, a
                        reckless light appearing in his eyes.
                    "Not at all, sir, not at all. Why should I? I am quite capable of
                        handling the case single-handed. The less the police had to do with it the
                        better for all parties concerned. Still, it was necessary to frighten them a
                        little. Otherwise, they might have ejected me er bodily,
                        if you know what I mean. Or, for that matter, they might have called in the
                        police, as you suggest. So I kept them from doing either by giving them to
                        understand that if there was to be any calling of the police it would be I
                        who would do it with my little whistle."
                    He paused to chuckle.
                    "You are making a long story of it," growled Mr. Trotter.
                    
                    "I beg your pardon, sir. The interruptions, you see, ahem! I
                        followed Mr. Bramble to the dining-room. He was very nervous. He coughed a
                        great deal, and very loudly. I was quite convinced that you were secreted
                        somehere about the place, but, for the life of me, I couldn't
                        imagine where."
                    "I suppose it hadn't occurred to you that we might have
                        gone down the back stairway and escaped into the side-street," said
                        Mr. Trotter sarcastically.
                    Mr. Chambers cleared his throat and seemed curiously embarrassed.
                    "Perhaps I should have stated before that a er a chap from a local
                        agency was posted at the bottom of the kitchen stairway, as a favour to me,
                        so to speak. A chap who had been detailed to assist me, But I shall explain
                        all that in my report. So, you see, you couldn't have gone out that
                        way without Yes, yes, as I was saying, I accompanied Mr. Bramble to the
                        dining-room. The cook was in a very bad temper. The dinner was getting cold.
                        I observed that three places had been laid. Fixing my eye upon Mr. Bramble I
                        inquired who the third place was for. I shall never forget his expression,
                        nor the admirable way in which he recovered himself. He was quite wonderful.
                        He said it was for me. Rather neat of him, wasn't
                        it?"
                    "You don't mean to say you had the brass to Well,
                        'pon my soul, Chambers, that was going it a bit strong."
                    "Under the circumstances, your lordship, I couldn't very
                        well decline," said Mr. Chambers apologetically. "He is
                        such a decent, loyal old chap, sir, that it would have been cruel to let him
                        see that I knew he was lying."
                    
                    "But, confound you, that was my dinner,"
                        exclaimed Trotter wrathfully.
                    "So I suspected, your lordship. I knew it couldn't be her ladyship's. Well, we had got on
                        to the coffee, and I was just on the point of asking Mr. Bramble for the
                        loan of an umbrella, when there was a loud thump on the ceiling overhead. An
                        instant later a large piece of plaster fell to the floor, not three feet
                        behind my chair. I "
                    "By Jove! What a pity it didn't fall three feet
                        nearer," exclaimed Trotter, a note of regret in his voice.
                    Mr. Chambers generously overlooked the remark.
                    "After that it was plain sailing," said he, quite
                        pleasantly. "Now you know how I came to discover you, and how I
                        happen to be here."
                    "And those poor old dears," cried Lady Jane in distress;
                        "where are they? What have you done to them?"
                    "They are " he looked downward again before answering
                        " yes, they are holding the ladder for me. Coming,
                        gentlemen!" he called out. "We'll all be down in
                        a jiffy."
                    " Before we go any farther," said Trotter seriously,
                        "I should like to know just what the charge is against
                        me."
                    "Beg pardon?"
                    "The charge. What are you going to chuck me into prison
                        for?"
                    "Prison? My God, sir! Who said anything about prison?"
                        gasped Mr. Chambers, staring wide-eyed at the young man.
                    
                    Trotter leaned forward, his face a study in emotions. Lady Jane uttered a
                        soft little cry.
                    "Then, then they haven't trumped up some rotten charge
                        against me?"
                    "They? Charge? I say!" He bellowed the last to the
                        supporters below. "Hold this bally thing steady, will you? Do you
                        want me to break my neck?"
                    "Well, don't jiggle it like that," came the voice
                        of Mr. Bramble from below. "We can't hold it steady if
                        you're going to dance on it."
                    Mr. Chambers once more directed his remarks to Mr. Trotter.
                    "So far as I am aware, Lord Temple, there is no er charge against
                        you. The only complaint I know of is that you haven't kept your
                        grandfather informed as to your whereabouts. Naturally he is a bit annoyed
                        about it. You see, if you had dropped him a line occasionally "
                    "Get on, man, get on," urged Trotter excitedly.
                    "He wouldn't have been put to the expense of having a man
                        detached from Scotland Yard to look the world over for you. Personal
                        influence did it, of course. He went direct to the chief and asked for the
                        best man in the service. I happened to be on another case at the
                        time," explained Mr. Chambers modestly," but they took me
                        off at once and started me out. I "
                    "In a nutshell, you represent my grandfather and not the King of
                        England," interrupted Trotter.
                    "On detached duty," said Mr. Chambers.
                    "And you do not intend to arrest him?" cried Lady Jane.
                    "Bless me, no!" exclaimed Mr. Chambers.
                    
                    "Then, what the deuce do you mean by frightening Miss Emsdale and my
                        friends downstairs?" demanded Lord Fenlew's grandson.
                        "Couldn't you have said in the beginning that there was no
                        criminal charge against me?"
                    "I hadn't the remotest idea, your lordship, that any one
                        suspected you of crime," said Mr. Chambers, with dignity.
                    "But, confound you, why didn't you explain the situation to
                        Bramble? That was the sensible, yes, the intelligent thing to do, Mr.
                        Chambers."
                    "That is precisely what I did, your lordship, while we were at
                        dinner, we had a bottle of the wine Mr. Bramble says you are especially
                        partial to, but it wasn't until your heel came through the ceiling
                        that they believed anything at all. Subsequently I
                        discovered that her ladyship had prepared them for all sorts of trickery on
                        my part. She had made them promise to die rather than give you up. Now that
                        I see things as they are in a clear light, it occurs to me that your
                        ladyship must have pretty thoroughly convinced the old gentlemen that Lord
                        Temple is a fit subject for the gallows, or at the very least, Newgate
                        Prison. I fancy "
                    Lady Jane laughed aloud, gaily, unrestrainedly.
                    "Oh, dear! What a mess I've made of things!" she
                        cried. "Can you ever forgive me, Eric?"
                    "Never!" he cried, and Mr. Chambers took that very instant
                        to stoop over for a word with the men at the foot of the ladder. He went
                        farther and had several words with them. Indeed, it is not unlikely that he,
                        in his eagerness to please, would have stretched it into a  real chat if the object of his consideration
                        had not cried out:
                    "And now let us get down from this stuffy place, Eric. I am sure
                        there must be rats and all sorts of things up here. And it was such a jolly
                        place before the lantern came."
                    "Can you manage it, sir?" inquired Mr. Chambers anxiously,
                        as Eric prepared to lower her through the trap-door.
                    "Perfectly, thank you," said the young man. "If
                        you will be good enough to stand aside and make room at the top of the
                        ladder," he added, with a grin.
                    Mr. Chambers also grinned. "There's a difference between
                        walking on air and standing on it," said he, and hurriedly went
                        down the steps.
                    Presently they were all grouped at the foot of the ladder. Mr. Bramble was
                        busily engaged in brushing the dust and cobwebs from the excited young
                        lady's gown.
                    M. Mirabeau rattled on at a prodigious rate. He clapped Trotter on the back
                        at least half-a-dozen times, and, forgetting most of his excellent English,
                        waxed eloquent over the amazing turn of affairs. The literal, matter-of-fact
                        Mr. Bramble after a time succeeded in stemming the flow of exuberance.
                    "If you don't mind, Mirabeau, I have a word I'd
                        like to get in edgewise," he put in loudly, seizing an opportunity
                        when the old Frenchman was momentarily out of breath.
                    M. Mirabeau threw up his hands.
                    "At a time like this?" he gasped incredulously.
                    "And why not?" said Mr. Bramble stoutly.
                        "It's  time we opened that
                        last bottle of Chianti and drank to the health of Lord Eric Temple, and the
                        beautiful Lady Jane."
                    "The most sensible thing that has been uttered this
                        evening," cried M. Mirabeau, with enthusiasm.
                    Lord Temple took this occasion to remind them, and himself as well, that he
                        was still Thomas Trotter and that the deuce would be to pay with Mrs.
                        Millidew.
                    "By George, she'll skin me alive if I've been the
                        cause of her missing a good dinner," he said ruefully.
                    "That reminds me," began Mr. Bramble, M. Mirabeau and Mr.
                        Chambers in unison. Then they all laughed uproariously and trooped into the
                        dining-room, where the visible signs of destruction were not confined to the
                        floor three feet back of the chair lately occupied by the man from Scotland
                        Yard. A very good dinner had been completely wrecked.
                    Mrs. O'Leary, most competent of cooks, was already busily engaged in
                        preparing another!
                    "Now, Mr. Chambers," cried Jane, as she set her wine glass
                        down on the table and touched her handkerchief to her lips," tell
                        us everything, you dear good man."
                    Mr. Chambers, finding himself suddenly out of employment and with an
                        unlimited amount of spare time on his hands, spent the better part of the
                        first care-free hour he had known in months in the telling of his story.
                    In a ruthlessly condensed and deleted form it was as follows: Lord Fenlew,
                        quietly, almost surreptitiously, had set about to ascertain just how much of
                        truth and how much of fiction there was in the unpublished charges that had
                        caused his favourite grandson to abandon the 
                        Army and to seek obscurity that inevitably follows real or implied disgrace
                        for one too proud to fight. His efforts were rewarded in a most distressing
                        yet most satisfactory manner. One frightened and half-decent member of the
                        little clique responsible for the ugly stories, confessed that the
                        "whole bally business" was a put-up job.
                    Lord Fenlew lost no time in putting his grandsons on the grill. He grilled
                        them properly; when they left his presence they were scorched to a crisp,
                        unsavoury mess. Indeed, his lordship went so far as to complain of the
                        stench, and had the windows of Fen-lew Hall opened to give the place a
                        thorough airing after they had gone forth forevermore. With characteristic
                        energy and promptness, he went to the head of the War Office, and laid bare
                        the situation. With equal forethought and acumen he objected to the
                        slightest publicity being given the vindication of Eric Temple. He insisted
                        that nothing be said about the matter until the maligned officer returned to
                        England and to the corps from which he had resigned. He refused to have his
                        grandson's innocence publicly advertised! That, he maintained,
                        would be to start more tongues to wagging, and unless the young man himself
                        were on the ground to make the wagging useless, speculation would have a
                        chance to thrive on winks and head-shakings, and the "bally
                        business" would be in a worse shape than before. Moreover, he
                        argued, it wasn't Eric's place to humiliate himself by admitting his innocence. He wouldn't have that at
                        all.
                    Instead of beginning his search for the young man through the
                        "lost," "wanted" or
                        "personal" columns  of an
                        international press, he went to Scotland Yard. He abhorred the idea of such
                        printed insults as these: "If Lord Eric Temple will communicate
                        with his grandfather he will learn something to his advantage" or
                        "Will the young English nobleman who left London under a cloud in
                        1911 please address So-and-So; or "Eric: All is well. Return at
                        once and be forgiving"; or "$5,000 reward will be paid for
                        information concerning the present whereabouts of one Eric Temple, grandson
                        of Lord Fenlew, of Fenlew Hall"; etc., etc.
                    "And now, Lord Temple," said Mr. Alfred Chambers, after a
                        minute and unsparing account of his own travels and adventures,"
                        your grandfather is a very old man. I trust that you can start for England
                        at once. I am authorized to draw upon him for all the money necessary
                        to"
                    Lord Temple held up his hand. His eyes were glistening, his breast was
                        heaving mightily, and his voice shook with suppressed emotion as he said,
                        scarcely above a whisper:
                    "First of all, I shall cable him tonight. He'd like that,
                        you know. Better than anything."
                    "A word direct from you, dear," said Jane softly, happily.
                        "It will mean more to him than anything else in the
                        world."
                    "As you please, sir," said Mr. Chambers. "The
                        matter is now entirely in your hands. I am, you understand, under orders not
                        to return to England without you, but, I leave everything to you, sir. I was
                        only hoping that it would be possible for me to get back to my wife and
                        babies before, er, well, I was about to say before they forget what I look
                        like, but that  would have been a stupid thing
                        to say. They're not likely to forget a mug like mine."
                    "I am sorry to say, Mr. Chambers, that you and I will have to be
                        content to leave the matter of our departure entirely to the discretion of a
                        third party," said Eric, and blushed. A shy, diffident smile played
                        about his lips as he turned his wistful eyes upon Lady Jane Thorne.
                    "Leave that to me, sir," said the man from Scotland Yard
                        promptly and with decision, but with absolutely no understanding.
                        "I shall be happy to attend to any little Ow! Eh, what?"
                    M. Mirabeau's boot had come violently in contact with his ankle. By
                        a singular coincidence, Mr. Bramble, at precisely the same instant, effected
                        a sly but emphatic prod in the ribs.
                    "Ignoramus!" whispered the latter fiercely.
                    "Imbecile!" hissed the former, and then, noting the
                        bewildered look in the eyes of Mr. Chambers, went on to say in his most
                        suave manner: "Can't you see that you are standing in the
                        presence of the Third Party?"
                    "Any fool could see that," said Mr. Chambers promptly, and
                        bowed to Lady Jane. Later on he wanted to know what the deuce M. Mirabeau
                        meant by kicking him on the shin.
                    "How soon can you be ready to start home, dear?" inquired
                        Eric, ignoring the witnesses.
                    Jane's cheeks were rosy. Her blue eyes danced.
                    "It depends entirely on Mrs. Sparflight," said she.
                    "What has Mrs. Sparflight to do with it?"
                    "You dear silly, I can't go to Fenlew Hall with absolutely
                        nothing to wear, can I?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    AN EXCHANGE OF COURTESIES
                    LATER in the evening, Mr. Thomas Trotter (so far as he knew he was still in
                        the service of Mrs. Millidew, operating under chauffeur's license
                        No. So-and-So, Thomas Trotter, alien) strode briskly into a Western Union
                        office and sent off the following cablegram, directed to Lord Fenlew, Fenlew
                        Hall, Old-marsh, Blightwind Banks, Surrey:
                    "God bless you. Returning earliest possible date. Will wire soon as
                        wedding day is set. Eric."
                    It was a plain, matter-of-fact Britannical way of covering the situation. He
                        felt there was nothing more that could be said at the moment, and his
                        interest being centred upon two absorbing subjects he touched firmly upon
                        both of them and let it go at that.
                    Quite as direct and characteristic was the reply that came early the next
                        day.
                    "Do nothing rash. Who and what is she? Fenlew."
                    This was the beginning of a sharp, incisive conversation between two English
                        noblemen separated by three thousand miles of water.
                    "Loveliest girl in the world. You will be daffy over her. Take my
                        word for it. Eric."
                    (While we are about it, it is just as well to set forth the brisk dialogue
                        now and get over with it. Something  like
                        forty-eight hours actually were required to complete the transoceanic
                        conversation. We save time and avoid confusion, to say nothing of
                        interrupted activities, by telling it all in a breath, so to speak,
                        disregarding everything except sequence.)
                    Lord Fenlew to Lord Temple: "I repeat, who and what is
                        she?"
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew: "Forgive oversight. She is daughter of
                        late Earl of Wexham. I told you what she is."
                    Lord Fenlew to Lord Temple: "What is date of wedding? Must know at
                        once."
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew: "I will ask her and let you
                        know."
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew(the next day): "Still undecided.
                        Something to do with gowns."
                    Lord Fenlew to Lord Temple: "Nonsense. I cannot wait."
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew: "Gave her your message. She says
                        you'll have to."
                    Lord Fenlew to Lord Temple: "Tell her I can't. I am a very
                        old man."
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew: "Thanks. That brought her round. May
                        fifteenth in this city."
                    Lord Fenlew to Lord Temple: "My blessings. Draw on me for any amount
                        up to ten thousand pounds. Wedding present on the way."
                    Lord Temple to Lord Fenlew: "Happiness complete."
                    An ordinary telegram signed "Eric Temple" was delivered on
                        board one of the huge American cruisers at Hampton Roads during this
                        exchange of cablegrams.
                    
                    It was directed to Lieut. Samuel Pickering Aylesworth, who promptly replied:
                        "Heartiest congratulations. Count on me for anything. Nothing could
                        give me greater happiness than to stand up with you on the momentous
                        occasion. It is great to know that you are not only still in the land of the
                        living but that you are living in the land that I love best. My warmest
                        felicitations to the future Lady Temple."
                    Now, to go back to the morning on which the first cablegram was received from
                        Lord Fenlew. At precisely ten minutes past nine o'clock we take up
                        the thread of this narrative once more and find Thomas Trotter standing in
                        the lower hall of Mrs. Millidew's home, awaiting the return of a
                        parlour-maid who had gone to inform her mistress that the chauffeur was
                        downstairs and wanted to see her when it was convenient. The chauffeur did
                        not fail to observe the anxious, concerned look in the maid's eyes,
                        nor the glance of sympathy she sent over her shoulder as she made the turn
                        at the top of the stairs.
                    Presently she came back. She looked positively distressed.
                    "My goodness, Tommie," she said," I'd
                        hate to be you."
                    He smiled, quite composedly. "Think I'd better beat
                        it?" he inquired.
                    "She's in an awful state," said the parlour-maid,
                        twisting the hem of her apron.
                    "I don't blame her," said Trotter coolly.
                    "What was you up to?" asked she, with some severity.
                    
                    He thought for a second or two and then puzzled her vastly by replying:
                    "Up to my ears."
                    "Pickled?"
                    "Permanently intoxicated," he assured her.
                    "Well, all I got to say is you'll be sober when she gets
                        through with you. I've been up against it myself, and I know. I've been on the point of quittin'
                        half a dozen times."
                    "A very sensible idea, Katie," said he, solemnly.
                    She stiffened. "I guess you don't get me. I mean
                        quittin' my job, Mr. Fresh."
                    "I daresay I'll be quitting mine," said he and
                        smiled so engagingly that Katie's rancour gave way at once to
                        sympathy.
                    "You poor kid! But listen. I'll give you a tip. You
                        needn't be out of a job ten minutes. Young Mrs. Millidew is up
                        there with the old girl now. They've been havin' it hot
                        and heavy for fifteen minutes. The old one called the young one up on the
                        'phone at seven o'clock this morning and gave her the
                        swellest tongue-lashin' you ever heard. Said she'd been
                        stealin' her chauffeur, and a lot of other things I'm
                        ashamed to tell you. Over comes the young one, hotter'n fire, and
                        they're havin' it out upstairs. I happened to be
                        passin' the door a little while ago and I heard young Mrs. Millidew
                        tell the Missus that if she fired you she'd take you on in two
                        seconds. So, if you "
                    "Thanks, Katie," interrupted Trotter. "Did Mrs.
                        Millidew say when she would see me?"
                    "Soon as she gets something on," said Katie.
                    
                    At that moment, a door slammed violently on the floor above. There was a
                        swift swish of skirts, and then the vivid, angry face of Mrs. Millidew, the
                        younger, came suddenly into view. She leaned far out over the banister rail
                        and searched the hallway below with quick, roving eyes.
                    "Are you there, Trotter?" she called out in a voice that
                        trembled perceptibly.
                    He advanced a few paces, stopping beside the newel post. He looked straight
                        up into her eyes.
                    "Yes, Mrs. Millidew."
                    "You begin driving for me today," she said hurriedly.
                        "Do you understand?"
                    "But, madam, I am not open to "
                    "Yes, you are," she interrupted. "You
                        don't know it, but you are out of a job, Trotter."
                    "I am not surprised," he said.
                    "I don't care what you were doing last night, that is your
                        affair, not mine. You come to me at once at the same wages "
                    "I beg your pardon," he broke in. "I mean to say I
                        am not seeking another situation."
                    "If it is a question of pay, I will give you ten dollars a week more
                        than you were receiving here. Now, don't haggle. That is sixty
                        dollars a week. Hurry up! Decide! She will be out here in a minute. Oh,
                        thunder!"
                    The same door banged open and the voice of Mrs. Millidew, the elder, preceded
                        its owner by some seconds in the race to the front.
                    "You are not fired, Trotter," she squealed. Her head,
                        considerably dishevelled, appeared alongside the  gay spring bonnet that bedecked her daughter-in-law.
                        "You ought to be fired for what you did last night, but you are
                        not. Do you understand? Now, shut up, Dolly! It doesn't matter if I
                            did say I was going to fire him. I've changed
                        my mind."
                    "You are too late," said the younger Mrs. Millidew coolly.
                        "I've just engaged him. He comes to me at"
                    "You little snake!"
                    "Ladies, I beg of you "
                    "The next time I let him go gallivanting off with you for a couple
                        of days and nights, you'll know it,"
                        cried the elder Mrs. Millidew, furiously. "I can see what
                        you've been up to. You've been doing everything in your
                        power to get him away from me "
                    "Just what do you mean to insinuate, Mother Millidew?"
                        demanded the other, her voice rising.
                    "My God!" cried Trotter's employer, straightening
                        her figure and facing the other. Something like horror sounded in her
                        cracked old voice. "Could my God! could it be possible?"
                    "Speak plainly! What do you mean?"
                    Mrs. Millidew, the elder, advanced her mottled face until it was but a few
                        inches from that of her daughter-in-law.
                    "Where were you last night?" she demanded
                        harshly.
                    There was a moment of utter silence. Trotter, down below, caught his breath.
                    Then, to his amazement, Mrs. Millidew the younger, instead of flying into a
                        rage, laughed softly, musically.
                    "Oh, you are too rich for words," she gurgled. "I
                             wish, heavens, how I wish you could see
                        what a fool you look. Go back, quick, and look in the mirror before it wears
                        off. You'll have the heartiest laugh you've had in
                        years."
                    She leaned against the railing and continued to laugh. Not a sound from Mrs.
                        Millidew, the elder.
                    "Do come up a few steps, Trotter," went on the younger
                        gaily," and have a peep. You will "
                    The other found her voice. There was now an agitated note, as of alarm, in
                        it.
                    "Don't you dare come up those steps, Trotter; I forbid you,
                        do you hear!"
                    Trotter replied with considerable dignity. He had been shocked by the scene.
                    "I have no intention of moving in any direction except toward the
                        front door," he said.
                    "Don't go away," called out his employer.
                        "You are not dismissed."
                    "I came to explain my unavoidable absence last "
                    "Some other time, some other time. I want the car at half-past
                        ten."
                    Young Mrs. Millidew was descending the stairs. Her smiling eyes were upon the
                        distressed young man at the bottom. There was no response in his.
                    "I beg your pardon, Mrs. Millidew," he said, raising his
                        voice slightly. "I came not only to explain, but to notify you that
                        I am giving up my place almost immediately."
                    "What!" squeaked the old lady, coming to the top of the
                        steps.
                    "It is imperative. I shall, of course, stay on for a day or two
                        while you are finding "
                    
                    "Do you mean to say you are quitting of your own accord?"
                        she gasped.
                    "Yes, madam."
                    "Don't call me 'madam'! I've
                        told you that before. So so, you are going to work for her in spite of me,
                        are you? It's all been arranged, has it? You two have "
                    "He is coming to me today," said young Mrs. Millidew
                        sweetly. "Aren't you, Trotter?"
                    "No, I am not!" he exploded.
                    She stopped short on the stairs, and gave him a startled, incredulous look.
                        Any one else but Trotter would have been struck by her loveliness.
                    "You're not?" cried Mrs. Millidew from the top
                        step. It was almost a cry of relief. "Do you mean that?"
                    "Absolutely."
                    His employer fumbled for a pocket lost among the folds of her dressing-gown.
                    "Well, you can't resign, my man. Don't think for a
                        minute you can resign," she cried out shrilly.
                    He thought she was looking for a handkerchief.
                    "But I insist, Mrs. Millidew, that I "
                    "You can't resign for the simple reason that
                        you're already fired," she sputtered. "I never
                        allow any one to give me notice, young man. No one ever
                        left me without being discharged, let me tell you that. Where the dev Oh,
                        here it is!" She not only had found the pocket but the crisp slip
                        of paper that it contained. "Here is a check for your
                        week's wages. It isn't up till next Monday, but take it
                        and get out. I never want to see your ugly face again."
                    
                    She crumpled the bit of paper in her hand and threw the ball in his
                        direction. Its flight ended half-way down the steps.
                    "Come and get it, if you want it," she said.
                    "Good day, madam," he said crisply, and turned on his heel.
                    "How many times must I tell you not to call me Come back here,
                        Dolly! I want to see you."
                    But her tall, perplexed daughter-in-law passed out through the door, followed
                        by the erect and lordly Mr. Trotter.
                    "Good-bye, Tommie," whispered Katie, as he donned his grey
                        fedora.
                    "Good-bye, Katie," he said, smiling, and held out his hand
                        to her. "You heard what she said. If you should ever think of
                        resigning, I'd suggest you do it in writing and from a long way
                        off." He looked behind the vestibule door and recovered a smart
                        little walking-stick. "Something to lean upon in my
                        misfortune," he explained to Katie.
                    Young Mrs. Millidew was standing at the top of the steps, evidently waiting
                        for him. Her brow wrinkled as she took him in from head to foot. He was
                        wearing spats. His two-button serge coat looked as though it had been made
                        for him, and his correctly pressed trousers as well. He stood for a moment,
                        his head erect, his heels a little apart, his stick under his arm, while he
                        drew on, with no inconsiderable effect a pair of light tan gloves. And the
                        smile with which he favoured her was certainly not that of a punctilious
                        menial. On the contrary, it was the rather bland,  casual smile of one who is very well satisfied with his
                        position.
                    In a cheery, off-hand manner he inquired if she was by any chance going in
                        his direction.
                    The metamorphosis was complete. The instant he stepped outside of Mrs.
                        Millidew's door, the mask was cast aside. He stood now before the
                        world, and before the puzzled young widow in particular, as a thoroughbred,
                        cocksure English gentleman. In a moment his whole being seemed to have
                        undergone a change. He carried himself differently; his voice and the manner
                        in which he used it struck her at once as remarkably altered; more than
                        anything else, was she impressed by the calm assurance of his inquiry.
                    She was nonplussed. For a moment she hesitated between resentment and the
                        swift-growing conviction that he was an equal.
                    For the first time within the range of her memory, she felt herself
                        completely rattled and uncertain of herself. She blushed like a fool, as she
                        afterwards confessed, and stammered confusedly:
                    "I yes that is, I am going home."
                    "Come along, then," he said coolly, and she actually
                        gasped.
                    To her own amazement, she took her place beside him and descended the steps,
                        her cheeks crimson. At the bottom, she cast a wild, anxious look up and down
                        the street, and then over her shoulder at the second-story windows of the
                        house they had just left.
                    Queer little shivers were running all over her. She couldn't account
                        for them, any more than she could  account for
                        the astonishing performance to which she was now committed: that of walking
                        jauntily through a fashionable cross-town street in the friendliest, most
                        intimate manner with her mother-in-law's discharged chauffeur!
                        Fifth Avenue but a few steps away, with all its mid-morning activities to be
                        encountered! What on earth possessed her! "Come along,
                        then," he had said with all the calmness of an old and privileged
                        acquaintance! And obediently she had "come along"!
                    His chin was up, his eyes were sparkling; his body was bent forward slightly
                        at the waist to co-ordinate with the somewhat pronounced action of his legs;
                        his hat was slightly tilted and placed well back on his head; his gay little
                        walking-stick described graceful revolutions.
                    She was suddenly aware of a new thrillone of satisfaction. As she looked at
                        him out of the corner of her eye, her face cleared. Instinctively she
                        grasped the truth. Whatever he may have been yesterday, he was quite another
                        person today,and it was a pleasure to be seen with him!
                    She lengthened her stride, and held up her head. Her red lips parted in a
                        dazzling smile.
                    "I suppose it is useless to ask you to change your
                        mind,Trotter," she said, purposely hesitating over the name.
                    "Quite," said he, smiling into her eyes.
                    She was momentarily disconcerted. She found it more difficult than she had
                        thought to look into his eyes.
                    "Why do you call yourself Trotter?" she asked, after a
                        moment.
                    
                    "I haven't the remotest idea," he said.
                        "It came to me quite unexpectedly."
                    "It isn't a pretty name," she observed.
                        "Couldn't you have done better?"
                    "I daresay I might have called myself Marjoribanks with perfect
                        propriety," said he. "Or Plantagenct, or Cholmondeley. But
                        it would have been quite a waste of time, don't you
                        think?"
                    "Would you mind telling me who you really are?"
                    "You wouldn't believe me."
                    "Oh, yes, I would. I could believe anything of you."
                    "Well, I am the Prince of Wales."
                    She flushed. "I believe you," she said. "Forgive
                        my impertinence, Prince."
                    "Forgive mine, Mrs. Millidew," he said soberly.
                    "My name is Temple, Eric Temple. That does not convey anything to
                        you, of course."
                    "It conveys something vastly more interesting than Trotter,Thomas
                        Trotter."
                    "And yet I am morally certain that Trotter had a great deal more to
                        him than Eric Temple ever had," said he. "Trotter was a
                        rather good sort, if I do say it myself. He was a hard-working, honest,
                        intelligent fellow who found the world a very joily old thing. I shall miss
                        Trotter terribly, Mrs. Millidew. He used to read me to sleep nearly every
                        night, and if I got a headache or a pain anywhere he did my complaining for
                        me. He was with me night and day for three years and more, and that, let me
                        tell you, is the severest test. I've known him to curse me roundly,
                        to call me nearly everything under the sun,and yet I let him go on doing it
                        without a word in self-defence. Once he saved 
                        my life in an Indian jungle,he was a remarkably good shot, you see. And
                        again he pulled me through a pretty stiff illness in Tokio. I don't
                        know how I should have got on without Trotter."
                    "You are really quite delicious, Mr. Eric Temple. By the way, did
                        you allow the admirable Trotter to direct your affairs of the
                        heart?"
                    "I did," said he promptly.
                    "That is rather disappointing," said she, shaking her head.
                        "Trotter may not have played the game fairly, you know. With all
                        the best intentions in the world, he may have taken advantage of yourshall I
                        say indifference?"
                    "You may take my word for it, Mrs. Millidew, good old Trotter went
                        to a great deal of pains to arrange a very suitable match for me,"
                        said he airily. "He was a most discriminating chap."
                    "How interesting," said she, stiffening slightly.
                    "Am I permitted to inquire just what opportunities Thomas Trotter
                        has had to select a suitable companion for the rather exotic Mr.
                        Temple?"
                    "Fortunately," said he, "the rather exotic Mr.
                        Temple approves entirely of the choice made by Thomas Trotter."
                    "I wouldn't trust a chauffeur too far, if I were
                        you," said she, a little maliciously.
                    "Just how far would you trust one? "he
                        inquired, lifting his eyebrows.
                    She smiled. "Well,the length of Long Island," she said,
                        with the utmost composure.
                    "Mr. Trotter's late employer would not, it appears, share
                        your faith in the rascal," said he.
                    
                    "She is a rather evil-minded old party," said Mrs.
                        Millidew, the younger, bowing to the occupants of an automobile which was
                        moving slowly in the same direction down the Avenue.
                    A lady in the rear seat of the limousine leaned forward to peer at the
                        widow's companion, who raised his hat,but not in greeting. The man
                        who slumped down in the seat beside her, barely lifted his hat. A second
                        later he sat up somewhat hastily and stared.
                    The occupants of the car were Mrs. Smith-Parvis,a trifle haggard about the
                        eyes,and her son Stuyvesant.
                    Young Mrs. Millidew laughed. "Evidently they recognize you, Mr.
                        Temple, in spite of your spats and stick."
                    "I thought I was completely disguised," said he, twirling
                        his stick.
                    "Good-bye," said she, at the corner. She held out her hand.
                        "It is very nice to have known you, Mr. Eric Temple. Our mutual
                        acquaintance, the impeccable Trotter, has my address if you should care to
                        avail yourself of it. After the end of June, I shall be on Long
                        Island."
                    "It is very good of you, Mrs. Millidew," he said, clasping
                        her hand. His hat was off. The warm spring sun gleamed in his curly brown
                        hair. "I hope to be in England before the end of June." He
                        hesitated a moment, and then said: "Lady Temple and I will be happy
                        to welcome you at Fenlew Hall when you next visit England.
                        Good-bye."
                    She watched him stride off down the Avenue. She  was still looking after him with slightly disturbed eyes when the butler
                        opened the door.
                    "Any fool should have known," she said, to herself and not
                        to the servant. A queer little light danced in her eyes. "As a
                        matter of fact, I suppose I did know without realizing it. Is Mrs. Hemleigh
                        at home, Brooks?"
                    "She is expecting you, Mrs. Millidew."
                    "By the way, Brooks, do you happen to know anything about Fenlew
                        Hall?"
                    Brooks was as good a liar as any one. He had come, highly recommended, from a
                        Fifth Avenue intelligence office. He did not hesitate an instant.
                    "The Duke of Aberdeen's county seat, ma'am? I know
                        it quite well. I cawn't tell you 'ow many times
                        I've been in the plice, ma'am, while I was valeting his
                        Grice, the Duke of Manchester."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    THE BRIDE-ELECT
                    FOUR persons, a woman and three men, assembled in the insignificant hallway
                        at the top of the steps reaching to the fifth floor of the building occupied
                        by Deborah, Limited. To be precise, they were the butler, the parlour-maid
                        and two austere footmen. Cricklewick was speaking.
                    "Marriage is a most venturesome undertaking, my dear." He
                        addressed himself to Julia, the parlourmaid. "So don't go
                        saying it isn't."
                    "I didn't say it wasn't," said Julia
                        stoutly. "What I said was, if ever any two people were made for
                        each other it's him and her."
                    "In my time," said Cricklewick, "I've
                        seen what looked to be the most excellent matches turn out to be nothing but
                        fizzles."
                    "Well, this one won't," said she.
                    "As I was saying to McFaddan in the back 'all a minute ago,
                        Mr. Cricklewick, the larst weddin' of any consequence I can
                        remember hattending was when Lady Jane's mother was married to the
                        Earl of Wexham. I sat on the box with old 'Oppins and we ran hover
                        a dog drivin' away from St. George's in 'Anover
                        Square." It was Moody who spoke. He seemed to relish the memory.
                        "It was such a pretty little dog, too. I shall never forget
                        it." He winked at Julia.
                    "You needn't wink at me, Moody," said Julia.
                        "I didn't like the little beast any more than you
                        did."
                    
                    "Wot I've always wanted to know is how the
                        blinkin' dog got loose in the street that day," mused
                        McFaddan. "He was the most obstinate dog I ever saw. It was
                        absolutely impossible to coax 'im into the stable-yard when
                        Higgins's bull terrier was avisitin' us, and you
                        couldn't get him into the stall with Dandy Boy, not to save your
                        life. He seemed to know that hoss would kick his bloomin' gizzard out. I used to throw little hunks of meat into the
                        stall for him, too, nice little morsels that any other dog in the world
                        would have been proud to risk anything for. But him? Not a bit of it. He was
                        the most disappointin', bull-headed animal I ever saw.
                        I've always meant to ask how did it happen, Julia?"
                    "I had him out for his stroll," said Julia, with a faraway,
                        pleased expression in her eyes. "I thought as how he might be
                        interested in seeing the bride and groom, and all that, when they came out
                        of the church, so I took him around past Claridge's, and would you
                        believe it he got away from me right in the thick of the carriages. He was
                        that kind of a dog. He would always have his own way. I was terribly upset,
                        McFaddan. You must remember how I carried on, crying and moaning and all
                        that till her ladyship had to send for the doctor. It seemed to sort of get
                        her mind off her bereavement, my hysterics did."
                    "You made a puffeck nuisance of yourself," said
                        Cricklewick.
                    "I took notice, however, Mr. Cricklewick, that you
                        didn't shed any tears," said she coldly.
                    "Certainly not," said the butler. "I admit I
                        should have cried as much as anybody. You've no idea how fond the
                        little darling was of me. There was hardly a 
                        day he didn't take a bite out of me, he liked me so much. He used
                        to go without his regular meals, he had such a preference for my calves.
                        I've got marks on me to this day."
                    "And just to think, it was twenty-six years ago," sighed
                        Moody. "'Ow times 'ave changed."
                    "Not as much as you'd think," said Julia, a
                        worried look in her eyes. "My mistress is talking of getting
                        another dog, after all these years. She swore she'd never have
                        another one to take 'is place."
                    "Thank 'eavings," said Moody devoutly, "I
                        am in another situation." He winked and chuckled loudly.
                    "As 'andsome a pair as you'll see in a
                        twelve-month," said McFaddan. "He is a ,"
                    "Ahem!" coughed the butler. "There is some one on
                        the stairs, Julia."
                    Silently, swiftly, the group dissolved. Cricklewick took his place in the
                        foyer, Julia clattered down the stairs to the barred gate, Moody went into
                        the big drawing-room where sat the Marchioness, resplendent, the
                        Marchioness, who, twenty-six years before, had owned a pet that came to a
                        sad and inglorious end on a happy wedding-day, and she alone of a large and
                        imposing household had been the solitary mourner. She was the Marchioness of
                        Camelford in those days.
                    The nobility of New York, or such of it as existed for the purpose of
                        dignifying the salon, was congregating on the eve of the marriage of Lady
                        Jane Thorne and Lord Temple. Three o'clock the next afternoon was
                        the hour set for the wedding, the place a modest little church, somewhat
                        despised by its lordlier companions because it happened to be off in a
                        somewhat  obscure cross-town street and
                        encouraged the unconventional.
                    The bride-elect was not so proud or so self-absorbed that she could desert
                        the Marchioness in the preparation of what promised to be the largest, the
                        sprightliest and the most imposing salon of the year. She had put on an old
                        gingham gown, had rolled up the sleeves, and had lent a hand with a will and
                        an energy that distressed, yet pleased the older woman. She dusted and
                        polished and scrubbed, and she laughed joyously and sang little snatches of
                        song as she toiled. And then, when the work was done, she sat down to her
                        last dinner with the delighted Marchioness and said she envied all the
                        charwomen in the world if they felt as she did after an honest
                        day's toil.
                    "I daresay I ought to pay you a bit extra for the work
                        you've done today," the Marchioness had said, a sly glint
                        in her eyes. "Would a shilling be satisfactory, my good girl?
                    "Quite, ma'am," said Jane, radiant.
                        "I've always wanted a lucky shillin',
                        ma'am. I haven't one to me name."
                    "You'll be having sovereigns after tomorrow, God bless
                        you," said the other, a little catch in her voice, and Jane got up
                        from the table instantly and kissed her.
                    "I am ashamed of myself for having taken so much from you, dear, and
                        given so little in return," she said. "I haven't
                        earned a tenth of what you've paid me."
                    The Marchioness looked up and smiled, and said nothing.
                    "Isn't Lieutenant Aylesworth perfectly stunning?"
                        Lady Jane inquired, long afterwards, as she obediently  turned this way and that while the critical Deborah studied
                        the effect of her latest creation in gowns.
                    "Raise your arm, my dear, so! I believe it is a trifle tight What
                        were you saying?"
                    "Lieutenant Aylesworth, isn't he adorable?"
                    "My dear," said the Marchioness," it
                        hasn't been your good fortune to come in contact with many of the
                            real American men. You have seen the imitations.
                        Therefore you are tremendously impressed with the real article when it is
                        set before you. Aylesworth is a splendid fellow. He is big and clean and
                        gentle. There isn't a rotten spot in him. But you must not think of
                        him as an exception. There are a million men like him in this wonderful
                        country, ay, more than a million, my dear. Give me an American every time.
                        If I couldn't get along with him and be happy to the end of my days
                        with him, it would be my fault and not his. They know how to treat a woman,
                        and that is more than you can say for our own countrymen as a class. All
                        that a woman has to do to make an American husband happy is to let him think
                        that he isn't doing quite enough for her. If I were twenty-five
                        years younger than I am, I would get me an American husband and keep him on
                        the jump from morning till night doing everything in his power to make
                        himself perfectly happy over me. This Lieutenant Aylesworth is a fair
                        example of what they turn out over here, my dear Jane. You will find his
                        counterpart everywhere, and not always in the uniform of the U. S. Navy.
                        They are a new breed of men, and they are full of the joy of living. They
                        represent the revivified strength of a dozen run-down nations, our own
                        Empire among them."
                    
                    "He may be all you claim for him," said Jane, "but
                        give me an English gentleman every time."
                    "That is because you happen to be very much in love with one, my
                        dear, and a rare one into the bargain. Eric Temple has lost nothing by being
                        away from England for the past three years. He is as arrogant and as
                        cocksure of himself as any other Englishmen, but he has picked up virtues
                        that most of his countrymen disdain. Never fear, my dear, he will be a good
                        husband to you. But he will not eat out of your hand as these jolly
                        Americans do. And when he is sixty he will be running true to form. He will
                        be a lordly old dear and you will have to listen to his criticism of the
                        government, and the navy and the army and all the rest of creation from
                        morning till night and you will have to agree with him or he won't
                        understand what the devil has got into you. But, as that is precisely what
                        all English wives love better than anything else in the world, you will be
                        happy."
                    "I don't believe Eric will ever become crotchety or
                        overbearing," said Jane stubbornly.
                    "That would be a pity, dear," said the Marchioness, rising;
                        "for of such is the kingdom of Britain."
                    Shortly after eleven o'clock, Julia came hurrying upstairs in great
                        agitation. She tried vainly for awhile to attract the attention of the
                        pompous Cricklewick by a series of sibilant whispers directed from behind
                        the curtains in the foyer.
                    The huge room was crowded. Everybody was there, including Count Andrew
                        Drouillard, who rarely attended the functions; the Princess Mariana di
                        Pavesi,  young Baron Osterholz (who had but
                        recently returned to New York after a tour of the West as a chorus-man in
                        "The Merry Widow"); and Prince Waldemar de Bosky, excused
                        for the night from Spangler's on account of a severe attack of
                        ptomaine poisoning.
                    "What do you want?" whispered Cricklewick, angrily, passing
                        close to the curtains and cocking his car without appearing to do so.
                    "Come out here," whispered Julia.
                    "Don't hiss like that! I can't come."
                    "You must. It's something dreadful."
                    "Is it McFaddan's wife?" whispered Cricklewick, in
                        sudden dismay.
                    "Worse than that. The police."
                    "My Gawd!"
                    The butler looked wildly about. He caught McFaddan's eye, and
                        signalled him to come at once. If it was the police, McFaddan was the man to
                        handle them. All the princes and lords and counts in New York combined were
                        not worth McFaddan's little finger in an emergency like this.
                    At the top of the steps Julia explained to the perspiring Cricklewick and the
                        incredulous McFaddan.
                    "They're at the gate down there, two of 'em in
                        full uniform, awful looking things, and a man in a silk hat and evening
                        dress. He says if we don't let him up he'll have the joint
                        pulled."
                    "We'll see about that," said
                        McFaddan gruffly and not at all in the voice or manner of a well-trained
                        footman. He led the way down the steps, followed by Cricklewick and the
                        trembling Julia. At the last landing but one, he halted, and in a
                        superlatively respectful  whisper restored
                        Cricklewick to his natural position as a superior.
                    "You go ahead and see what they want," he said.
                    "What's wrong with your going first?" demanded
                        Cricklewick, holding back.
                    "I suddenly remembered that the cops wouldn't know what to
                        think if they saw me in this rig," confessed McFaddan,
                        ingratiatingly. "They might drop dead, you know."
                    "You can explain that you're attending a fancy dress
                        party," said Cricklewick earnestly. "I am a respectable,
                        dignified, merchant and I "
                    "Go on, man! If you need me I'll be waitin' at the
                        top of the steps. They don't know you from Adam, so what's
                        there to be afraid of?"
                    Fortified by McFaddan's promise, Cricklewick descended to the barred
                        and locked grating.
                    "What's goin' on here?" demanded the
                        burliest policeman he had ever seen. The second bluecoat shook the gate till
                        it rattled on its hinges.
                    Mr. Cricklewick was staring, open-mouthed but speechless, at the figure
                        behind the policemen.
                    "Open up," commanded the second officer. "Get a
                        move on."
                    "We got to see what kind of a joint this is, uncle. This gentleman
                        says something's been goin' on here for the past month to
                        his certain knowledge,"
                    "Just a moment," broke in Cricklewick, hastily covering the
                        lower part of his face with his hand, that being the nearest he could come,
                        under the circumstances, to emulating the maladroit ostrich. "I
                        will call Mr."
                    
                    "You'll open the gate right now, me man, or we'll
                        bust it in and jug the whole gang of ye," observed the burlier one,
                        scowling.
                    "Go ahead and bust," said Cricklewick, surprising himself
                        quite as much as the officers. "Hey, Mack!" he called out.
                        "Come down at once! Now, you'll see!" he rasped,
                        turning to the policemen again. The light of victory was in his eye.
                    "What's that!" roared the cop.
                    "Break it down," ordered the young man in the rear.
                        "I tell you there's a card game or even worse going on
                        upstairs. I've had the place watched. All kinds of hoboes pass in
                        and out of here on regular nights every week, the rottenest lot of men and
                        women I've "
                    "Hurry up, Mack!" shouted Mr. Cricklewick. He was alone.
                        Julia had fled to the top landing.
                    "Coming," boomed a voice from above. A gorgeous figure in
                        full livery filled the vision of two policemen.
                    "For the love o' Mike," gasped the burly one, and
                        burst into a roar of laughter. "What is it"
                    "Well, of all the " began the other.
                    McFaddan interrupted him just in time to avoid additional ignominy.
                    "What the hell do you guys mean by buttin' in
                        here?" he roared, his face brick-red with anger.
                    "Cut that out," snarled the burly one.
                        "You'll mighty soon see what we mean by "
                    "Beat it. Clear out!" shouted McFaddan.
                    "Smash the door down," shouted the young man in full
                        evening dress.
                    "Oh, my God!" gasped McFaddan, his eyes almost  popping from his head. He had recognized the
                        speaker.
                    By singular coincidence all three of the men outside the gate recognized Mr.
                        Cornelius McFaddan at the same time.
                    "Holy mackerel!" gasped the burly one, grabbing for his
                        cap. "It'sit's Mr. McFaddan or I'm a
                        goat."
                    "You're a goat all right," declared McFaddan in a
                        voice that shook all the confidence out of both policemen and caused Mr.
                        Stuyvesant Smith-Parvis to back sharply toward the steps leading to the
                        street. "Where's Julia?" roared the district
                        boss, glaring balefully at Stuyvie. "Get the key, Cricklewick,
                        quick. Let me out of here. I'll never have another chance like
                        this. The dirty "
                    "Calm yourself, McFaddan," pleaded Cricklewick.
                        "Remember where you are and who is upstairs. We can't have
                        a row, you know. It "
                    "What's the game, Mr. McFaddan?" inquired one of
                        the policemen, very politely. "I hope we haven't disturbed
                        a party or anything like that. We were sent over here by the sergeant on the
                        complaint of this gentleman, who says "
                    They've got a young girl up there," broke in Stuyvesant.
                        "She's been decoyed into a den of crooks and white-slavers
                        headed by the woman who runs the shop downstairs. I've had her
                        watched. I "
                    "O'Flaherty," cried McFaddan, in a pleading voice,
                        will ye do me the favour of breaking this damned door down? I'll
                        forgive ye for everything yes, bedad, I'll get ye a promotion if
                        ye'll only rip this accursed thing off its hinges."
                    
                    "Ain't this guy straight?" demanded
                        O'Flaherty, turning upon Stuyvesant. "If he's
                        been double-crossing us "
                    "I shall report you to the Commissioner of Police," cried
                        Stuyvesant, retreating a step or two as the gate gave signs of yielding.
                        "He is a friend of mine."
                    "He is a friend of Mr. McFaddan's also," said
                        O'Flaherty, scratching his head dubiously. "I guess
                        you'll have to explain, young feller."
                    "Ask him to explain," insisted Stuyvie.
                    "Permit me," interposed Cricklewick, in an agitated voice.
                        "This is a private little fancy dress party. We"
                    "Well, I'll be jiggered!" exclaimed Stuyvesant,
                        coming closer to a real American being than he had ever been before in all
                        his life. "It's old Cricklewick! Why, you old
                        rou!"
                    "I I let me help you, McFaddan," cried Cricklewick
                        suddenly. "If we all put our strength to the bally thing, it may
                        give way. Now! All together!"
                    Julia came scuttling down the steps.
                    "Be quiet!" she cried, tensely. "Whatever are we
                        to do? She's coming down they're both coming down. They
                        are going over to the Ritz for supper. The best man is giving a party. Oh,
                        my soul! Can't you do anything, McFaddan?"
                    "Not until you unlock the gate," groaned McFaddan,
                        perspiring freely.
                    "There she is!" cried Stuyvesant, pointing up the stairs.
                        "Now, will you believe me?"
                    "Get out of sight, you!" whispered McFaddan violent,  addressing the bewildered policemen.
                        "Get back in the hall and don't breathe, do you hear me?
                        As for you " Cricklewick's spasmodic
                        grip on his arm checked the torrent.
                    Lady Jane was standing at the top of the steps, peering intently downward.
                    "What is it, Cricklewick?" she called out.
                    "Nothing, my lady, nothing at all," the butler managed to
                        say with perfect composure. "Merely a couple of newspaper reporters
                        asking for ahem an interview. Stupid blighters! I I sent them away in jolly
                        quick order."
                    "Isn't that one of them still standing at the top of the
                        steps?" inquired she.
                    "It's it's only the night-watchman," said
                        McFaddan.
                    "Oh, I see, Send him off, please. Lord Temple and I are leaving at
                        once, Cricklewick. Julia, will you help me with my wraps?"
                    She disappeared from view. Julia ran swiftly up the steps.
                    Stuyvesant, apparently alone in the hall outside, put his hand to his head.
                    "Did did she say Lord Temple?"
                    "Beat it!" said McFaddan.
                    "The chap the papers have been What the devil has she to do with
                        Lord Temple?"
                    "I forgot to get the key from Julia, damn it!" muttered
                        McFaddan, suddenly trying the gate again.
                    "I say, Jane!" called out a strong, masculine voice from
                        regions above. "Are you nearly ready?"
                    Rapid footsteps came down the unseen stairway, and  a moment later the erstwhile Thomas Trotter, as fine a figure
                        in evening dress as you'd see in a month of Sundays, stopped on the
                        landing.
                    "Will you see if there's a taxi waiting,
                        Cricklewick?" he said. "Moody telephoned for one a few
                        minutes ago. I'll be down in a second, Jane dear."
                    He dashed back up the stairs.
                    "Officer O'Flaherty!" called out Mr. McFaddan, in
                        a cautious undertone, "will you be good enough to step downstairs
                        and see if Lord Temple's taxi's outside?"
                    "What'll we do with this gazabo, Mr. McFaddan?"
                    "Was is that man that chauffeur was that Lord
                        Temple?" sputtered Stuyvesant.
                    "Yes, it was," snapped McFaddan. "And
                        ye'd better be careful how ye speak of your betters. Now, clear
                        out. I wouldn't have Lady Jane Thorne know I lied to her for
                        anything in the world."
                    "Lied? Lied about what?"
                    "When I said ye were a decent night-watchman," said
                        McFaddan.
                    Stuyvesant went down the steps and into the street, puzzled and sick at
                        heart.
                    He paused irresolutely just outside the entrance. If they were really the
                        Lord Temple and the Lady Jane Thorne whose appearance in the marriage
                        license bureau at City Hall had provided a small sensation for the morning
                        newspapers, it wouldn't be a bad idea to let them see that he was
                        ready and willing to forget and forgive 
                    "Move on, now! Get a move, you!" ordered
                        O'Flaherty, giving him a shove.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE BEGINNING
                    THE brisk, businesslike little clergyman was sorely disappointed. He had
                        looked forward to a rather smart affair, so to speak, on the afternoon of
                        the fifteenth. Indeed, he had gone to some pains to prepare himself for an
                        event far out of the ordinary. It isn't every day that one has the
                        opportunity to perform a ceremony wherein a real Lord and Lady plight the
                        troth; it isn't every parson who can say he has officiated for
                        nobility. Such an event certainly calls for a little more than the customary
                        preparations. He got out his newest vestments and did not neglect to brush
                        his hair. His shoes were highly polished for the occasion and his nails
                        shone with a brightness that fascinated him. Moreover, he had tuned up his
                        voice; it had gone stale with the monotony of countless marriages in which
                        he rarely took the trouble to notice whether the responses were properly
                        made. By dint of a little extra exertion in the rectory he had brought it to
                        a fine state of unctuous mellowness.
                    Moreover, he had given some thought to the prayer. It wasn't going
                        to be a perfunctory, listless thing, this prayer for Lord and Lady Temple.
                        It was to be a profound utterance. The glib, everyday prayer
                        wouldn't do at all on an occasion like this. The church would be
                        filled with the best people in New York. Something fine and resonant and
                        perhaps a little personal, something to do with God, of course, but, in  the main, worth listening to. In fact,
                        something from the diaphragm, sonorous.
                    For a little while he would take off the well worn mask of humility and bask
                        in the fulgent rays of his own light.
                    But, to repeat, he was sorely disappointed. Instead of beaming upon an
                        assemblage of the elect, he found himself confronted by a company that
                        caused him to question his own good taste in shaving especially for the
                        occasion and in wearing gold-rimmed nose-glasses instead of the
                        "over the ears" he usually wore when in haste.
                    He saw, with shocked and incredulous eyes, sparsely planted about the dim
                        church as if separated by the order of one who realized that closer contact
                        would result in something worse than passive antagonism, a strange and
                        motley company.
                    For a moment he trembled. Had he, by some horrible mischance, set two
                        weddings for the same hour? He cudgelled his brain as he peeped through the
                        vestry door. A sickening blank! He could recall no other ceremony for that
                        particular hour, and yet as he struggled for a solution the conviction
                        became stronger that he had committed a most egregious error. Then and
                        there, in a perspiring panic, he solemnly resolved to give these weddings a
                        little more thought. He had been getting a bit slack, really quite haphazard
                        in checking off the daily grist.
                    What was he to do when the noble English pair and their friends put in an
                        appearance? Despite the fact that the young American sailor-chap who came to
                        see him about the service had casually remarked that it  was to be a most informal affair, with "no
                        trimmings" or something like that, he knew that so far as these
                        people were concerned, simplicity was merely comparative. Doubtless, the
                        young couple, affecting simplicity, would appear without coronets; the
                        guests probably would saunter in and, in a rather dgag fashion, find seats
                        for themselves without deigning to notice the obsequious verger in
                        attendance. And here was the church partially filled, certainly the best
                        seats were taken, by a most unseemly lot of people! What was to be done
                        about it? He looked anxiously about for the sexton. Then he glanced at his
                        watch. Ten minutes to spare.
                    Some one tapped him on the shoulder. He turned to face the stalwart young
                        naval officer. A tall young man was standing at some distance behind the
                        officer, clumsily drawing on a pair of pearl grey gloves. He wore a monocle.
                        The good pastor's look of distress deepened.
                    "Good afternoon," said the smiling lieutenant.
                    "You see I got him here on time, sir,"
                    "Yes, yes," murmured the pastor. "Ha-ha!
                        Ha-ha!" He laughed in his customary way. Not one but a thousand
                        "best men" had spoken those very words to him before. The
                        remark called for a laugh. It had become a habit.
                    "Is everybody here?" inquired Aylesworth, peeping over his
                        shoulder through the crack in the door. The pastor bethought himself and
                        gently closed the door, whereupon the best man promptly opened it again and
                        resumed his stealthy scrutiny of the dim edifice.
                    
                    "I can't fasten this beastly thing, Aylesworth,"
                        said the tall young man in the background. "Would you mind seeing
                        what you can do with the bally thing?"
                    "I see the Countess there," said Aylesworth, still gazing.
                        "And the Marchioness, and "
                    "The Marchioness?" murmured the pastor, in fresh dismay.
                    "I guess they're all here," went on the best man,
                        turning away from the door and joining his nervous companion.
                    "I'd sooner face a regiment of cavalry than" began
                        Eric Temple.
                    "May I have the pleasure and the honour of greeting Lord
                        Temple?" said the little minister, approaching with outstretched
                        hand. "A er a very happy occasion, your lordship. Perhaps I would
                        better explain the presence in the church of a er rather unusual crowd of er
                        shall we say curiosity-seekers? You see, this is an open church. The doors
                        are always open to the public. Very queer people sometimes get in, despite
                        the watchfulness of the attendant, usually, I may say, when a wedding of
                        such prominence ahem! er "
                    "I don't in the least mind," said Lord Temple
                        good-humouredly. "If it's any treat to them, let them
                        stay. Sure you've got the ring, Aylesworth? I say, I'm
                        sorry now we didn't have a rehearsal. It isn't at all
                        simple. You said it would be, confound you. You "
                    "All you have to do, old chap, is to give your arm to Lady Jane and
                        follow the Baroness and me to the chancel. Say 'I do' and
                        'I will' to everything, and before you know it
                        you'll come to and find yourself 
                        still breathing and walking on air. Isn't that so,
                        Doctor?"
                    "Quite, quite so, I am sure."
                    "Let me take a peep out there, Aylesworth. I'd like to get
                        my bearings."
                    "Pray do not be dismayed by the" began the minister.
                    "Hullo! There's Bramby sitting in the front seat, my word,
                        I've never known him to look so seraphic. Old Fogazario, and de
                        Bosky, and yes, there's Mirabeau, and the amiable Mrs. Moses
                        Jacobs. 'Gad, she's resplendent! Du Bara and Herman and By
                        Jove, they're all here, every one of them. I say, Aylesworth, what
                        time is it? I wonder if anything can have happened to Jane? Run out to the
                        sidewalk, old chap, and have a look, will you? I"
                    "Are all bridegrooms like this?" inquired Ayles-worth
                        drily, addressing the bewildered minister.
                    "Here she is!" sang out the bridegroom, leaping toward the
                        little vestibule. "Thank heaven, Jane! I thought you'd met
                        with an accident or My God! How lovely you are, darling! Isn't she,
                        Aylesworth?"
                    "Permit me to present you, Doctor, to Lady Jane Thorne,"
                        interposed Aylesworth. "And to the Baroness Brangwyng."
                    From that moment on, the little divine was in a daze. He didn't know
                        what to make of anything. Everything was wrong and yet everything was right!
                        How could it be?
                    How was he to know that his quaint, unpretentious little church was half-full
                        of masked men and women?
                    
                    How was he to know that these queer-looking people out there were counts and
                        countesses, barons and baronesses, princes and princesses? Swarthy Italians,
                        sallow-faced Frenchmen, dark Hungarians, bearded Russians and pompous
                        Teutons! How was he to know that once upon a time all of these had gone
                        without masks in the streets and courts of far-off lands and had worn
                        "purple and fine linen"? And those plainly, poorly dressed
                        women? Where, oh where, were the smart New Yorkers for whom he had furbished
                        himself up so neatly?
                    What manner of companions had this lovely bride, ah, but she had the real atmosphere! What sort of people had she been thrown
                        with during her stay in the City of New York? She who might have known the
                        best, the most exclusive," bless me, what a pity!"
                    Here and there in the motley throng, he espied a figure that suggested upper
                        Fifth Avenue. The little lady with the snow-white hair; the tall brunette
                        with the rather stunning hat; the austere gentleman far in the rear, the
                        ruddy faced old man behind him, and the aggressive-looking individual with
                        the green necktie, Yes, any one of them might have come from uptown and
                        ought to feel somewhat out of place in this singular gathering. The three
                        gentlemen especially. He sized them up as financiers, as plutocrats. And yet
                        they were back where the family servants usually sat.
                    He got through with the service, indulgently, it is to be feared, after all.
                    He would say, on the whole, that he had never seen a handsomer couple than
                        Lord and Lady Temple. There was compensation in that. Any one with half  an eye could see that they came of the very
                        best stock. And the little Baroness, he had never seen a baroness before,
                        was somebody, too. She possessed manner, that indefinable thing they called
                        manner, there was no mistake about it. He had no means of knowing, of
                        course, that she was struggling hard to make a living in the
                        "artist colony" down town.
                    Well, well, it is a strange world, after all. You never can tell, mused the
                        little pastor as he stood in the entrance of his church with half-a-dozen
                        reporters and watched the strange company disperse, some in motors, some in
                        hansoms, and others on the soles of their feet. A large lady in many colours
                        ran for a south-bound street car. He wondered who she could be. The cook,
                        perhaps.
                    Lieutenant Aylesworth was saying good-bye to the bride and groom at the Grand
                        Central Station. The train for Montreal was leaving shortly before ten
                        o'clock.
                    The wedding journey was to carry them through Canada to the Pacific and back
                        to New York, leisurely, by way of the Panama Canal. Lord Fenlew had not been
                        niggardly. All he demanded of his grandson in return was that they should
                        come to Fenlew Hall before the first of August.
                    "Look us up the instant you set foot in England, Sammy,"
                        said Eric, gripping his friend's hand. "Watch the
                        newspapers. You'll see when our ship comes home, and after that
                        you'll find us holding out our arms to you."
                    "When my ship leaves home," said the
                        American,  "I hope she'll
                        steer for an English port. Good-bye, Lady Temple. Please live to be a
                        hundred, that's all I ask of you."
                    "Good-bye, Sam," she said, blushing as she uttered the name
                        he had urged her to use.
                    "You won't mind letting the children call me Uncle Sam,
                        will you?" he said, a droll twist to his lips.
                    "How quaint!" she murmured.
                    "By Jove, Sammy," cried Eric warmly,
                        "you've no idea how much better you look in Uncle
                        Sam's uniform than you did in that stuffy frock coat this
                        afternoon. Thank God, I can get into a uniform myself before long. You
                        wouldn't understand, old chap, how good it feels to be in a British
                        uniform."
                    "I'm afraid we've outgrown the British
                        uniform," said the other drily. "It used to be rather
                        common over here, you know."
                    "You don't know what all this means to me," said
                        Temple seriously, his hand still clasping the American's.
                        "I can hold up my head once more. I can fight for England. If she
                        needs me, I can fight and die for her."
                    "You're a queer lot, you Britishers," drawled the
                        American. "You want to fight and die for Old England. I have a
                        singularly contrary ambition. I want to live and fight for America."
                    On the twenty-fourth of July, 1914, Lord Eric Temple and his bride came home
                        to England.
                    THE END
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
            
        
    
