
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. A Reversible Santa Claus: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2404
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
                By Meredith Nicholson
                A REVERSIBLE SANTA CLAUS. Illustrated.
                THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING. Illustrated.
                THE POET. Illustrated.
                OTHERWISE PHYLLIS. With frontispiece in color.
                THE PROVINCIAL AMERICAN AND OTHER PAPERS.
                A HOOSIER CHRONICLE. With illustrations.
                THE SIEGE OF THE SEVEN SUITORS With illustrations.
                HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
                BOSTON AND NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
                A Reversible Santa Claus
                
            
            
            
            
            Frontispiece
                
                    "DO YOU MIND TELLING ME JUST WHY YOU READ THAT NOTE?" (Page
                        78)
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A REVERSIBLE SANTA CLAUS
                
                BY
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                 WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY FLORENCE H. MINARD
                
                    BOSTON and NEW YORK
                    HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
                    The Riverside Press,
                    Cambridge
                    1917
                
            
            
            Verso
                COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                
                    Published October 1917
                
            
            
            
                Illustrations
                
                    "DO YOU MIND TELLING ME JUST WHY YOU READ THAT
                        NOTE?" 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    
                    THE HOPPER GRINNED,
                            PROUD OF HIS SUCCESS, WHICH MARY AND HUMPY VIEWED WITH GRUDGING
                         ADMIRATION
                        44
                        
                    THE FAINT CLICK OF
                        A LATCH MARKED THE
                         PROWLER'S PROXIMITY TO A HEDGE
                        116
                        
                    THE THREE MEN GATHERED
                            ROUND THEM, STARING DULLY
                        150
                        
                
                
                    From Drawings by F. Minard
                
            
            
        
        
            
        	A Reversible Santa Claus
                
                    I
                    
                    
                    
                    I
                    MR. WILLIAM B. AIKINS, alias "Softy" Hubbard, alias Billy The Hopper, paused for breath behind a hedge that bordered
                        a quiet lane and peered out into the highway at a roadster whose tail light
                        advertised its presence to his felonious gaze. It was Christmas Eve, and
                        after a day of unseasonable warmth a slow, drizzling rain was whimsically
                        changing to snow.
                    The Hopper was blowing from two hours' hard travel over rough country. He  had stumbled through woodlands, flattened
                        himself in fence corners to avoid the eyes of curious motorists speeding
                        homeward or flying about distributing Christmas gifts, and he was now bent
                        upon committing himself to an inter-urban trolley line that would afford
                        comfortable transportation for the remainder of his journey. Twenty miles,
                        he estimated, still lay between him and his domicile.
                    The rain had penetrated his clothing and vigorous exercise had not greatly
                        diminished the chill in his blood. His heart knocked violently against his
                        ribs and he was dismayed by his shortness of wind. The Hopper was not so
                        young as in the days when his agility and genius for effecting a quick
                        "get-away" had earned for him his sobriquet. The last time his Bertillon
                        measurements were checked (he was subjected  to
                        this humiliating experience in Omaha during the Ak-Sar-Ben carnival three
                        years earlier) official note was taken of the fact that The Hopper's hair,
                        long carried in the records as black, was rapidly whitening.
                    At forty-eight a crookeven so resourceful and versatile a member of the
                        fraternity as The Hopperbegins to mistrust himself. For the greater part of
                        his life, when not in durance vile, The Hopper had been in hiding, and the
                        state or condition of being a fugitive, hunted by keen-eyed agents of
                        justice, is not, from all accounts, an enviable one. His latest experience
                        of involuntary servitude had been under the auspices of the State of Oregon,
                        for a trifling indiscretion in the way of safe-blowing. Having served his
                        sentence, he skillfully effaced himself by  a
                        year's siesta on a pine-apple plantation in Hawaii. The island climate was
                        not wholly pleasing to The Hopper, and when pine-apples palled he took
                        passage from Honolulu as a stoker, reached San Francisco (not greatly
                        chastened in spirit), and by a series of characteristic hops, skips, and
                        jumps across the continent landed in Maine by way of the Canadian provinces.
                    The Hopper needed money. He was not without a certain crude philosophy, and
                        it had been his dream to acquire by some brilliant coup a
                        sufficient fortune upon which to retire and live as a decent, law-abiding
                        citizen for the remainder of his days. This ambition, or at least the means
                        to its fulfillment, can hardly be defended as praiseworthy, but The Hopper
                        was a singular character and we must take him as we find him. Many prison
                        chaplains  and jail visitors bearing tracts had
                        striven with little success to implant moral ideals in the mind and soul of
                        The Hopper, but he was still to be catalogued among the impenitent; and as
                        he moved southward through the Commonwealth of Maine he was so oppressed by
                        his poverty, as contrasted with the world's abundance, that he lifted forty
                        thousand dollars in a neat bundle from an express car which Providence had
                        sidetracked, apparently for his personal enrichment, on the upper waters of
                        the Penobscot. Whereupon he began perforce playing his old game of artful
                        dodging, exercising his best powers as a hopper and skipper. Forty thousand
                        dollars is no inconsiderable sum of money, and the success of this master
                        stroke of his career was not to be jeopardized by careless moves. By  craftily hiding in the big woods and making
                        himself agreeable to isolated lumberjacks who rarely saw newspapers, he
                        arrived in due course on Manhattan Island, where with shrewd judgment he
                        avoided the haunts of his kind while planning a future commensurate with his
                        new dignity as a capitalist.
                    He spent a year as a diligent and faithful employee of a garage which served
                        a fashionable quarter of the metropolis; then, animated by a worthy desire
                        to continue to lead an honest life, he purchased a chicken farm fifteen
                        miles as the crow flies from Center Church, New Haven, and boldly opened a
                        bank account in that academic center in his newly adopted name of Charles S.
                        Stevens, of Happy Hill Farm. Feeling the need of companionship, he married a
                        lady  somewhat his junior, a shoplifter of the
                        second class, whom he had known before the vigilance of the metropolitan
                        police necessitated his removal to the Far West. Mrs. Stevens's inferior
                        talents as a petty larcenist had led her into many difficulties, and she
                        gratefully availed herself of The Hopper's offer of his heart and hand.
                    They had added to their establishment a retired yegg who had lost an eye by
                        the premature popping of the "soup" (i.e., nitroglycerin) poured into the
                        crevices of a country post-office in Missouri. In offering shelter to Mr.
                        James Whitesides, alias "Humpy" Thompson, The Hopper's
                        motives had not been wholly unselfish, as Humpy had been entrusted with the
                        herding of poultry in several penitentiaries and was familiar with the most
                             advanced scientific thought on chicken
                        culture.
                    The roadster was headed toward his home and The Hopper contemplated it in the
                        deepening dusk with greedy eyes. His labors in the New York garage had
                        familiarized him with automobiles, and while he was not ignorant of the
                        pains and penalties inflicted upon lawless persons who appropriate motors
                        illegally, he was the victim of an irresistible temptation to jump into the
                        machine thus left in the highway, drive as near home as he dared, and then
                        abandon it. The owner of the roadster was presumably eating his evening meal
                        in peace in the snug little cottage behind the shrubbery, and The Hopper was
                        aware of no sound reason why he should not seize the vehicle and further
                        widen the distance between himself  and a
                        suspicious-looking gentleman he had observed on the New Haven local.
                    The Hopper's conscience was not altogether at ease, as he had, that
                        afternoon, possessed himself of a bill-book that was protruding from the
                        breast-pocket of a dignified citizen whose strap he had shared in a crowded
                        subway train. Having foresworn crime as a means of livelihood, The Hopper
                        was chagrined that he had suffered himself to be beguiled into stealing by
                        the mere propinquity of a piece of red leather. He was angry at the world as
                        well as himself. People should not go about with bill-books sticking out of
                        their pockets; it was unfair and unjust to those weak members of the human
                        race who yield readily to temptation.
                    He had agreed with Mary when she married him and the chicken farm that  they would respect the Ten Commandments and
                        all statutory laws, State and Federal, and he was painfully conscious that
                        when he confessed his sin she would deal severely with him. Even Humpy, now
                        enjoying a peace that he had rarely known outside the walls of prison, even
                        Humpy would be bitter. The thought that he was again among the hunted would
                        depress Mary and Humpy, and he knew that their harshness would be
                        intensified because of his violation of the unwritten law of the underworld
                        in resorting to purse-lifting, an infringement upon a branch of felony
                        despicable and greatly inferior in dignity to safe-blowing.
                    These reflections spurred The Hopper to action, for the sooner he reached
                        home the more quickly he could explain his protracted stay in New York (to
                        which  metropolis he had repaired in the hope
                        of making a better price for eggs with the commission merchants who handled
                        his products), submit himself to Mary's chastisement, and promise to sin no
                        more. By returning on Christmas Eve, of all times, again a fugitive, he knew
                        that he would merit the unsparing condemnation that Mary and Humpy would
                        visit upon him. It was possible, it was even quite likely, that the short,
                        stocky gentleman he had seen on the New Haven local was not a "bull" not
                        really a detective who had observed the little transaction in the subway;
                        but the very uncertainty annoyed The Hopper. In his happy and profitable
                        year at Happy Hill Farm he had learned to prize his personal comfort, and he
                        was humiliated to find that he had been frightened into leaving the train at
                             Bansford to continue his journey afoot,
                        and merely because a man had looked at him a little queerly.
                    Any Christmas spirit that had taken root in The Hopper's soul had been
                        disturbed, not to say seriously threatened with extinction, by the untoward
                        occurrences of the afternoon.
                
                
                
                    II
                    
                    
                    II
                    THE Hopper waited for a limousine to pass and then crawled
                        out of his hiding-place, jumped into the roadster, and was at once in
                        motion. He glanced back, fearing that the owner might have heard his
                        departure, and then, satisfied of his immediate security, negotiated a
                        difficult turn in the road and settled himself with a feeling of relief to
                        careful but expeditious flight. It was at this moment, when he had urged the
                        car to its highest speed, that a noise startled him an amazing little
                        chirrupy sound which corresponded  to none of
                        the familiar forewarnings of engine trouble. With his eyes to the front he
                        listened for a repetition of the sound. It rose again it was like a
                        perplexing cheep and chirrup, changing to a chortle of glee.
                    "Goo-goo! Goo-goo-goo!"
                    The car was skimming a dark stretch of road and a superstitious awe fell upon
                        The Hopper. Murder, he gratefully remembered, had never been among his
                        crimes, though he had once winged a too-inquisitive policeman in Kansas
                        City. He glanced over his shoulder, but saw no pursuing ghost in the snowy
                        highway; then, looking down apprehensively, he detected on the seat beside
                        him what appeared to be an animate bundle, and, prompted by a louder
                        "goo-goo," he put out his hand. His fingers touched something  thing warm and soft and were promptly seized
                        and held by Something.
                    The Hopper snatched his hand free of the tentacles of the unknown and shook
                        it violently. The nature of the Something troubled him. He renewed his
                        experiments, steering with his left hand and exposing the right to what now
                        seemed to be the grasp of two very small mittened hands.
                    "Goo-goo ! Goody; teep wunnin'!"
                    "A kid!" The Hopper gasped.
                    That he had eloped with a child was the blackest of the day's calamities. He
                        experienced a strange sinking feeling in the stomach. In moments of
                        apprehension a crook's thoughts run naturally into periods of penal
                        servitude, and the punishment for kidnaping, The Hopper re-called, was
                        severe. He stopped the car  and inspected his
                        unwelcome fellow passenger by the light of matches. Two big blue eyes stared
                        at him from a hood and two mittens were poked into his face. Two small feet,
                        wrapped tightly in a blanket, kicked at him energetically.
                    "Detup! Mate um skedaddle!"
                    Obedient to this command The Hopper made the car skedaddle, but superstitious
                        dread settled upon him more heavily. He was satisfied now that from the
                        moment he transferred the strap-hanger's bill-book to his own pocket he had
                        been hoodooed. Only a jinx of the most malevolent type could have prompted
                        his hurried exit from a train to dodge an imaginary "bull." Only the
                        blackest of evil spirits could be responsible for this involuntary
                        kidnaping!
                    "Mate um wun! Mateum'ippitystip!"
                    
                    The mittened hands reached for the wheel at this juncture and an unlooked-for
                        "jippity skip" precipitated the young passenger into The Hopper's lap.
                    This mishap was attended with the jolliest baby laughter. Gently but with
                        much firmness The Hopper restored the youngster to an upright position and
                        supported him until sure he was able to sustain himself.
                    "Ye better set still, little feller," he admonished.
                    The little feller seemed in no wise astonished to find himself abroad with a
                        perfect stranger and his courage and good cheer were not lost upon The
                        Hopper. He wanted to be severe, to vent his rage for the day's calamities
                        upon the only human being within range, but in spite of himself he felt no
                        animosity toward the  friendly little bundle of
                        humanity beside him. Still, he had stolen a baby and it was incumbent upon
                        him to free himself at once of the appalling burden; but a baby is not so
                        easily disposed of. He could not, without seriously imperiling his liberty,
                        return to the cottage. It was the rule of house-breakers, he recalled, to
                        avoid babies. He had heard it said by burglars of wide experience and
                        unquestioned wisdom that babies were the most dangerous of all burglar
                        alarms. All things considered, kidnaping and automobile theft were not a
                        happy combination with which to appear before a criminal court. The Hopper
                        was vexed because the child did not cry; if he had shown a bad disposition
                        The Hopper might have abandoned him; but the youngster was the cheeriest and
                        most agreeable of traveling companions. 
                        Indeed, The Hopper's spirits rose under his continued "goo-gooing" and
                        chirruping.
                    "Nice little Shaver!" he said, patting the child's knees.
                    Little Shaver was so pleased by this friendly demonstration that he threw up
                        his arms in an effort to embrace The Hopper.
                    "Bil-lee," he gurgled delightedly.
                    The Hopper was so astonished at being addressed in his own lawful name by a
                        strange baby that he barely averted a collision with a passing motor truck.
                        It was unbelievable that the baby really knew his name, but perhaps it was a
                        good omen that he had hit upon it. The Hopper's resentment against the dark
                        fate that seemed to pursue him vanished. Even though he had stolen a baby,
                        it was  a merry, brave little baby who did n't
                        mind at all being run away with! He dismissed the thought of planting the
                        little shaver at a door, ringing the bell and running away; this was no way
                        to treat a friendly child that had done him no injury, and The Hopper highly
                        resolved to do the square thing by the youngster even at personal
                        inconvenience and risk.
                    The snow was now falling in generous Christmasy flakes, and the high speed
                        the car had again attained was evidently deeply gratifying to the young
                        person, whose reckless tumbling about made it necessary for The Hopper to
                        keep a hand on him.
                    "Steady, little un; steady!" The Hopper kept mumbling.
                    His wits were busy trying to devise some means of getting rid of the
                        youngster  without exposing himself to the
                        danger of arrest. By this time some one was undoubtedly busily engaged in
                        searching for both baby and car; the police far and near would be notified,
                        and would be on the lookout for a smart roadster containing a stolen child.
                    "Merry Christmas!" a boy shouted from a farm gate.
                    "M'y Kwismus!" piped Shaver.
                    The Hopper decided to run the machine home and there ponder the disposition
                        of his blithe companion with the care the unusual circumstances demanded.
                    "Urry up; me's goin' 'ome to me's gwanpa's kwismus t'ee!"
                    "Right ye be, little un; right ye be!" affirmed The Hopper.
                    The youngster was evidently blessed with a sanguine and confiding nature.  His reference to his grandfather's Christmas
                        tree impinged sharply upon The Hopper's conscience. Christmas had never
                        figured very prominently in his scheme of life. About the only Christmases
                        that he recalled with any pleasure were those that he had spent in prison,
                        and those were marked only by Christmas dinners varying with the generosity
                        of a series of wardens.
                    But Shaver was entitled to all the joys of Christmas, and The Hopper had no
                        desire to deprive him of them.
                    "Keep a-larfin', Shaver, keep a-larfin'," said the Hopper. "Ole Hop ain't
                        a-goin' to hurt ye!"
                    The Hopper, feeling his way cautiously round the fringes of New Haven,
                        arrived presently at Happy Hill Farm, where he ran the car in among the
                        chicken sheds  behind the cottage and
                        carefully extinguished the lights.
                    "Now, Shaver, out ye come!"
                    Whereupon Shaver obediently jumped into his arms.
                    
                
                
                
                    III
                    
                    
                    III
                    THE Hopper knocked twice at the back door, waited an
                        instant, and knocked again. As he completed the signal the door was opened
                        guardedly. A man and woman surveyed him in hostile silence as he pushed past
                        them, kicked the door shut, and deposited the blinking child on the kitchen
                        table. Humpy, the one-eyed, jumped to the windows and jammed the green
                        shades close into the frames. The woman scowlingly waited for the head of
                        the house to explain himself, and this, with the perversity of one  who knows the dramatic value of suspense, he
                        was in no haste to do.
                    "Well," Mary questioned sharply. "What ye got there, Bill?"
                    The Hopper was regarding Shaver with a grin of benevolent satisfaction. The
                        youngster had seized a bottle of catsup and was making heroic efforts to
                        raise it to his mouth, and the Hopper was intensely tickled by Shaver's
                        efforts to swallow the bottle. Mrs. Stevens, alias Weeping
                        Mary, was not amused, and her husband's enjoyment of the child's antics
                        irritated her.
                    "Come out with ut, Bill!" she commanded, seizing the bottle. "What ye been
                        doin'?"
                    Shaver's big blue eyes expressed surprise and displeasure at being deprived
                        of his plaything, but he recovered quickly  and
                        reached for a plate with which he began thumping the table.
                    "Out with ut, Hop!" snapped Humpy nervously. "Nothin' wuz said about
                        kidnapin', an' I don't stand for ut!"
                    "When I heard the machine comin' in the yard I knowed somethin' was wrong an'
                        I guess it could n't be no worse," added Mary, beginning to cry. "You had
                        n't no right to do ut, Bill. Hookin' a buzz-buzz an' a kid an' when we wuz
                        playin' the white card! You ought t' 'a' told me, Bill, what ye went to town
                        fer, an' it bein' Christmas, an' all."
                    That he should have chosen for his fall the Christmas season of all times was
                        reprehensible, a fact which Mary and Humpy impressed upon him in the
                        strongest terms. The Hopper was fully aware of the inopportuneness of his
                        transgressions,  but not to the point of
                        encouraging his wife to abuse him.
                    As he clumsily tried to unfasten Shaver's hood, Mary pushed him aside and
                        with shaking fingers removed the child's wraps. Shaver's cheeks were rosy
                        from his drive through the cold; he was a plump, healthy little shaver and
                        The Hopper viewed him with intense pride. Mary held the hood and coat to the
                        light and inspected them with a sophisticated eye. They were of excellent
                        quality and workmanship, and she shook her head and sighed deeply as she
                        placed them carefully on a chair.
                    "It ain't on the square, Hop," protested Humpy, whose lone eye expressed the
                        most poignant sorrow at The Hopper's derelictions. Humpy was tall and lean,
                        with a thin, many-lined face. He was an 
                        ill-favored person at best, and his habit of turning his head constantly as
                        though to compel his single eye to perform double service gave one an
                        impression of restless watchfulness.
                    "Cute little Shaver, ain't 'e? Give Shaver somethin' to eat, Mary. I guess
                        milk'll be the right ticket considerin' th' size of 'im. How ole you make
                        'im? Not more'n three, I reckon?"
                    "Two. He ain't more'n two, that kid."
                    "A nice little feller; you're a cute un, ain't ye, Shaver?"
                    Shaver nodded his head solemnly. Having wearied of playing with the plate he
                        gravely inspected the trio; found something amusing in Humpy's bizarre
                        countenance and laughed merrily. Finding no response to his friendly
                        overtures he appealed to Mary.
                    
                    "Me wants me's paw-widge," he announced.
                    "Porridge," interpreted Humpy with the air of one whose superior breeding
                        makes him the proper arbiter of the speech of children of high social
                        station. Whereupon Shaver appreciatively poked his forefinger into Humpy's
                        surviving optic.
                    "I'll see what I got," muttered Mary. "What ye used t' eatin' for supper,
                        honey?"
                    The "honey" was a concession, and The Hopper, who was giving Shaver his watch
                        to play with, bent a commendatory glance upon his spouse.
                    "Go on an' tell us what ye done," said Mary, doggedly busying herself about
                        the stove.
                    The Hopper drew a chair to the table  to be
                        within reach of Shaver and related succinctly his day's adventures.
                    "A dip!" moaned Mary as he described the seizure of the purse in the subway.
                    "You had n't no right to do ut, Hop!" bleated Humpy, who had tipped his chair
                        against the wall and was sucking a cold pipe. And then, professional
                        curiosity overmastering his shocked conscience, he added: "What'd she
                        measure, Hop?"
                    The Hopper grinned.
                    "Flubbed! Nothin' but papers," he confessed ruefully.
                    Mary and Humpy expressed their indignation and contempt in unequivocal terms,
                        which they repeated after he told of the suspected "bull" whose presence on
                        the local had so alarmed him. A frank description of his flight and of his
                        seizure  of the roadster only added to their
                        bitterness.
                    Humpy rose and paced the floor with the quick, short stride of men habituated
                        to narrow spaces. The Hopper watched the telltale step so disagreeably
                        reminiscent of evil times and shrugged his shoulders impatiently.
                    "Set down, Hump; ye make me nervous. I got thinkin' to do."
                    "Ye'd better be quick about doin' ut!" Humpy snorted with an oath.
                    "Cut the cussin'!" The Hopper admonished sharply. Since his retirement to
                        private life he had sought diligently to free his speech of profanity and
                        thieves' slang, as not only unbecoming in a respectable chicken farmer, but
                        likely to arouse suspicions as to his origin and previous condition of
                        servitude. "Can't  ye see Shaver ain't use to
                        ut? Shaver's a little gent; he's a reg'ler little juke; that's wot Shaver
                        is."
                    "The more 'way up he is the worse fer us," whimpered Humpy. "It's kidnapin',
                        that's wot ut is!"
                    "That's wot it ain't" declared The Hopper, averting a
                        calamity to his watch, which Shaver was swinging by its chain. "He was took
                        by accident I tell ye! I'm goin' to take Shaver back to his ma ain't I,
                        Shaver?"
                    "Take 'im back!" echoed Mary.
                    Humpy crumpled up in his chair at this new evidence of The Hopper's insanity.
                    "I 'm goin' to make a Chris'mas present o' Shaver to his ma," reaffirmed The
                        Hopper, pinching the nearer ruddy cheek of the merry, contented guest.
                    
                    Shaver kicked The Hopper in the stomach and emitted a chortle expressive of
                        unshakable confidence in The Hopper's ability to restore him to his lawful
                        owners. This confidence was not, however, manifested toward Mary, who had
                        prepared with care the only cereal her pantry afforded, and now approached
                        Shaver, bowl and spoon in hand. Shaver, taken by surprise, inspected his
                        supper with disdain and spurned it with a vigor that sent the spoon rattling
                        across the floor.
                    "Me wants me's paw-widge bowl! Me wants me's own paw-widge
                        bowl!" he screamed.
                    Mary expostulated; Humpy offered advice as to the best manner of dealing with
                        the refractory Shaver, who gave further expression to his resentment by
                        throwing The Hopper's watch with violence 
                        against the wall. That the table-service of The Hopper's establishment was
                        not to Shaver's liking was manifested in repeated rejections of the plain
                        white bowl in which Mary offered the porridge. He demanded his very own
                        porridge bowl with the increasing vehemence of one who is willing to starve
                        rather than accept so palpable a substitute. He threw himself back on the
                        table and lay there kicking and crying. Other needs now occurred to Shaver:
                        he wanted his papa; he wanted his mamma; he wanted to go to his gwan'pa's.
                        He clamored for Santa Claus and numerous Christmas trees which, it seemed,
                        had been promised him at the houses of his kinsfolk. It was amazing and
                        bewildering that the heart of one so young could desire so many things that
                        were not immediately attainable. He had  begun
                        to suspect that he was among strangers who were not of his way of life, and
                        this was fraught with the gravest danger.
                    "They'll hear 'im hollerin' in China," wailed the pessimistic Humpy, running
                        about the room and examining the fastenings of doors and windows. "Folks
                        goin' along the road'll hear 'im, an' it's terms fer the whole bunch!"
                    The Hopper began pacing the floor with Shaver, while Humpy and Mary denounced
                        the child for unreasonableness and lack of discipline, not overlooking the
                        stupidity and criminal carelessness of The Hopper in projecting so lawless a
                        youngster into their domestic circle.
                    "Twenty years, that's wot ut is!" mourned Humpy.
                    "Ye kin get the chair fer kidnapin',"  Mary
                        added dolefully. "Ye gotta get 'im out o' here, Bill."
                    Pleasant predictions of a long prison term with capital punishment as the
                        happy alternative failed to disturb The Hopper. To their surprise and
                        somewhat to their shame he won the Shaver to a tractable humor. There was
                        nothing in The Hopper's known past to justify any expectation that he could
                        quiet a crying baby, and yet Shaver with a child's unerring instinct
                        realized that The Hopper meant to be kind. He patted The Hopper's face with
                        one fat little paw, chokingly declaring that he was hungry.
                    "'Course Shaver's hungry; an' Shaver's goin' to eat nice porridge Aunt Mary
                        made fer 'im. Shaver's goin' to have 'is own porridge bowl to-morry yes,
                        sir-ee, oo is, little Shaver!"
                    
                    Restored to the table, Shaver opened his mouth in obedience to The Hopper's
                        patient pleading and swallowed a spoonful of the mush, Humpy holding the
                        bowl out of sight in tactful deference to the child's delicate sthetic
                        sensibilities. A tumbler of milk was sipped with grateful gasps.
                    The Hopper grinned, proud of his success, while Mary and Humpy viewed his
                        efforts with somewhat grudging admiration, and waited patiently until The
                        Hopper took the wholly surfeited Shaver in his arms and began pacing the
                        floor, humming softly. In normal circumstances The Hopper was not musical,
                        and Humpy and Mary exchanged looks which, when interpreted, pointed to
                        nothing less than a belief that the owner of Happy Hill Farm was bereft of
                        his senses. There was some question as 
                        
                            THE HOPPER GRINNED, PROUD OF HIS SUCCESS, WHICH MARY AND HUMPY VIEWED
                                WITH GRUDGING ADMIRATION
                        
                        
                         to whether Shaver should be undressed. Mary
                        discouraged the idea and Humpy took a like view.
                    "Ye gotta chuck 'im quick; that's what ye gotta do," said Mary hoarsely. "We
                        don't want 'im sleepin' here."
                    Whereupon The Hopper demonstrated his entire independence by carrying the
                        Shaver to Humpy's bed and partially undressing him. While this was in
                        progress, Shaver suddenly opened his eyes wide and raising one foot until it
                        approximated the perpendicular, reached for it with his chubby hands.
                    "Sant' Claus comin'; m'y Kwismus!"
                    "Jes' listen to Shaver!" chuckled The Hopper. "'Course Santy is comin,' an'
                        we're goin' to hang up Shaver's stockin', ain't we, Shaver?"
                    He pinned both stockings to the foot-board  of
                        Humpy's bed. By the time this was accomplished under the hostile eyes of
                        Mary and Humpy, Shaver slept the sleep of the innocent.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    
                    
                    IV
                    THEY watched the child in silence for a few minutes and
                        then Mary detached a gold locket from his neck and bore it to the kitchen
                        for examination.
                    "Ye gotta move quick, Hop," Humpy urged. "The white card's what we wuz all
                        goin' to play. We wuz fixed nice here, an' things goin' easy; an' the yard
                        full o' br'ilers. I don't want to do no more time. I'm an ole man, Hop."
                    "Cut ut!" ordered The Hopper, taking the locket from Mary and weighing it
                        critically in his hand. They bent over him  as
                        he scrutinized the face on which was inscribed: 
                    
                        
                            Roger Livingston Talbot June 13, 1913
                        
                    
                    "Lemme see; he's two an' a harf. Ye purty nigh guessed 'im right, Mary."
                    The sight of the gold trinket, the probability that the Shaver belonged to a
                        family of wealth, proved disturbing to Humpy's late protestations of virtue.
                    "They'd be a heap o' kale in ut, Hop. His folks is rich, I reckon. Ef we wuz
                        n't play in' the white card "
                    Ignoring this shocking evidence of Humpy's moral instability, The Hopper
                        became lost in reverie, meditatively drawing at his pipe.
                    "We ain't never goin' to quit playin' ut square," he announced, to Mary's
                        manifest  relief. "I had n't ought t' 'a' done
                        th' dippin'. It were a mistake. My ole head wuz n't workin' right er I would
                        n't 'a' slipped. But ye need n't jump on me no more."
                    "Wot ye goin' to do with that kid? Ye tell me that!" demanded Mary, unwilling
                        too readily to accept The Hopper's repentance at face value.
                    "I'm goin' to take 'im to 'is folks, that's wot I'm goin' to do with 'im,"
                        announced The Hopper.
                    "Yer crazy yer plum' crazy!" cried Humpy, slapping his knees excitedly. "Ye
                        kin take 'im to an orphant asylum an' tell um ye found 'im in that machine
                        ye lifted. And mebbe ye 'll git by with ut an' mebbe ye won't, but ye gotta
                        keep roe out of ut!"
                    "I found the machine in th' road, right  here by
                        th' house; an' th' kid was in ut all by hisself. An' bein' humin an'
                        respecti-ble I brought 'im in to keep 'im from freezin' t' death," said The
                        Hopper, as though repeating lines he was committing to memory. "They ain't
                        nobody can say as I did n't. Ef I git pinched, that's my spiel to th' cops.
                        It ain't kidnapin'; it's life-savin', that's wot ut is! I'm a-goin' back an'
                        have a look at that place where I got 'im. Kind o' queer they left the kid
                        out there in the buzz-wagon; mighty queer, now's I think
                        of ut. Little house back from the road; lots o' trees an' bushes in front.
                        Did n't seem to be no lights. He keeps talkin' about Chris'mas at his
                        grandpa's. Folks must 'a' been goin' to take th' kid somewheres fer
                        Chris'mas. I guess it'll throw a skeer into 'em to find him up an' gone."
                    
                    "They's rich, an' all the big bulls 'll be lookin' fer 'im; ye'd better
                        'phone the New Haven cops ye've picked 'im up. Then they 'll come out, an'
                        yer spiel about findin' 'im'll sound easy an' sensible like."
                    The Hopper, puffing his pipe philosophically, paid no heed to Humpy's
                        suggestion even when supported warmly by Mary.
                    "I gotta find some way o' puttin' th' kid back without seein' no cops. I 'll
                        jes' take a sneak back an' have a look at th' place," said The Hopper. "I
                        ain't goin' to turn Shaver over to no cops. Ye can't take no chances with
                        'em. They don't know nothin' about us bein' here, but they ain't fools, an'
                        I ain't goin' to give none o' 'em a squint at me!"
                    He defended his plan against a joint attack by Mary and Humpy, who saw in  it only further proof of his tottering reason.
                        He was obliged to tell them in harsh terms to be quiet, and he added to
                        their rage by the deliberation with which he made his preparations to leave.
                    He opened the door of a clock and drew out a revolver which he examined
                        carefully and thrust into his pocket. Mary groaned; Humpy beat the air in
                        impotent despair. The Hopper possessed himself also of a jimmy and an
                        electric lamp. The latter he flashed upon the face of the sleeping Shaver,
                        who turned restlessly for a moment and then lay still again. He smoothed the
                        coverlet over the tiny form, while Mary and Humpy huddled in the doorway.
                        Mary wept; Humpy was awed into silence by his old friend's perversity. For
                        years he had admired The Hopper's cleverness, his genius for extricating
                        himself  from difficulties; he was deeply
                        shaken to think that one who had stood so high in one of the most exacting
                        of professions should have fallen so low. As The Hopper imperturbably
                        buttoned his coat and walked toward the door, Humpy set his back against it
                        in a last attempt to save his friend from his own foolhardiness.
                    "Ef anybody turns up here an' asks for th' kid, ye kin tell 'em wot I said.
                        We finds 'im in th' road right here by the farm when we're doin' th' night
                        chores an' takes 'im in t' keep 'im from freezin'. Ye'll have th' machine
                        an' kid here to show 'em. An' as fer me, I 'm off lookin' fer his folks."
                    Mary buried her face in her apron and wept despairingly. The Hopper, noting
                        for the first time that Humpy was guarding the door, roughly pushed him
                        aside  and stood for a moment with his hand
                        on the knob.
                    "They' things wot is," he remarked with a last attempt to justify his course,
                        "an' things wot ain't. I reckon I 'll take a peek at that place an' see
                        wot's th' best way t' shake th' kid. Ye can't jes' run up to a house in a
                        machine with his folks all settin' round cryin' an' cops askin' questions.
                        Ye got to do some plannin' an' thinkin'. I 'm goin' t' clean ut all up
                        before daylight, an' ye need n't worry none about ut. Hop ain't worryin';
                        jes' leave ut t' Hop!"
                    There was no alternative but to leave it to Hop, and they stood mute as he
                        went out and softly closed the door.
                
                
                
                    V
                    
                    
                    V
                    THE snow had ceased and the stars shone brightly on a
                        white world as The Hopper made his way by various trolley lines to the house
                        from which he had snatched Shaver. On a New Haven car he debated the
                        prospects of more snow with a policeman who seemed oblivious to the fact
                        that a child had been stolen shamelessly carried off by a man with a long
                        police record. Merry Christmas passed from lip to lip as if all creation
                        were attuned to the note of love and peace, and crime were an undreamed-of
                        thing.
                    
                    For two years The Hopper had led an exemplary life and he was keenly alive
                        now to the joy of adventure. His lapses of the day were unfortunate; he
                        thought of them with regret and misgivings, but he was zestful for whatever
                        the unknown held in store for him. Abroad again with a pistol in his pocket,
                        he was a lawless being, but with the difference that he was intent now upon
                        making restitution, though in such manner as would give him something akin
                        to the old thrill that he experienced when he enjoyed the reputation of
                        being one of the most skillful yeggs in the country. The successful thief is
                        of necessity an imaginative person; he must be able to visualize the unseen
                        and to deal with a thousand hidden contingencies. At best the chances are
                        against him; with all his ingenuity the broad, 
                        heavy hand of the law is likely at any moment to close upon him from some
                        unexpected quarter. The Hopper knew this, and knew, too, that in yielding to
                        the exhilaration of the hour he was likely to come to grief. Justice has a
                        long memory, and if he again made himself the object of police scrutiny that
                        little forty-thousand-dollar affair in Maine might still be fixed upon him.
                    When he reached the house from whose gate he had removed the roadster with
                        Shaver attached, he studied it with the eye of an experienced strategist. No
                        gleam anywhere published the presence of frantic parents bewailing the loss
                        of a baby. The cottage lay snugly behind its barrier of elms and shrubbery
                        as though its young heir had not vanished into the void. The Hopper was a
                        deliberating being  and he gave careful weight
                        to these circumstances as he crept round the walk, in which the snow lay
                        undisturbed, and investigated the rear of the premises. The lattice door of
                        the summer kitchen opened readily, and, after satisfying himself that no one
                        was stirring in the lower part of the house, he pried up the sash of a
                        window and stepped in. The larder was well stocked, as though in preparation
                        for a Christmas feast, and he passed on to the dining-room, whose
                        appointments spoke for good taste and a degree of prosperity in the
                        householder.
                    Cautious flashes of his lamp disclosed on the table a hamper, in which were
                        packed a silver cup, plate, and bowl which at once awoke the Hopper's
                        interest. Here indubitably was proof that this was the home of Shaver, now
                        sleeping sweetly  in Humpy's bed, and this was
                        the porridge bowl for which Shaver's soul had yearned. If Shaver did not
                        belong to the house, he had at least been a visitor there, and it struck The
                        Hopper as a reasonable assumption that Shaver had been deposited in the
                        roadster while his lawful guardians returned to the cottage for the hamper
                        preparatory to an excursion of some sort. But The Hopper groped in the dark
                        for an explanation of the calmness with which the householders accepted the
                        loss of the child. It was not in human nature for the parents of a youngster
                        so handsome and in every way so delightful as Shaver to permit him to be
                        stolen from under their very noses without making an outcry. The Hopper
                        examined the silver pieces and found them engraved with the name borne by
                        the locket. He crept  through a living-room and
                        came to a Christmas tree the smallest of Christmas trees. Beside it lay a
                        number of packages designed clearly for none other than young Roger
                        Livingston Talbot.
                    Housebreaking is a very different business from the forcible entry of country
                        post-offices, and The Hopper was nervous. This particular house seemed
                        utterly deserted. He stole upstairs and found doors open and a disorder
                        indicative of the occupants' hasty departure. His attention was arrested by
                        a small room finished in white, with a white enameled bed, and other
                        furniture to match. A generous litter of toys was the last proof needed to
                        establish the house as Shaver's true domicile. Indeed, there was every
                        indication that Shaver was the central figure of this home of whose  charm and atmosphere The Hopper was vaguely
                        sensible. A frieze of dancing children and water-color sketches of Shaver's
                        head, dabbed here and there in the most unlooked-for places, hinted at an
                        artistic household. This impression was strengthened when The Hopper,
                        bewildered and baffled, returned to the lower floor and found a studio
                        opening off the living-room. The Hopper had never visited a studio before,
                        and, satisfied now that he was the sole occupant of the house, he passed
                        about shooting his light upon unfinished canvases, pausing finally before an
                        easel supporting a portrait of Shaver newly finished, he discovered, by
                        poking his finger into the wet paint. Something fell to the floor and he
                        picked up a large sheet of drawing-paper on which this message was written
                        in charcoal: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Six-thirty. Dear Sweetheart:
                                    
                                    This is a fine trick you have played on me, you dear girl! I
                                        've been expecting you back all afternoon. At six I decided
                                        that you were going to spend the night with your infuriated
                                        parent and thought I'd try my luck with mine! I put Billie
                                        into the roadster and, leaving him there, ran over to the
                                        Flemings's to say Merry Christmas and tell 'em we were off
                                        for the night. They kept me just a minute to look at those
                                        new Jap prints Jim's so crazy about, and while I was gone
                                        you came along and skipped with Billie and the car! I
                                        suppose this means that you've been making headway with your
                                        dad and want to try the effect of Billie's blandishments.
                                        Good luck! But you might have stopped long enough to tell me
                                        about it! How fine it would be if everything could be
                                        straightened out for Christmas! Do you remember the first
                                        time I kissed you it was on Christmas Eve four years ago at
                                        the Billings's dance! I 'm just trolleying out to father's
                                        to see what an evening session will do. I 'll be back early
                                        in the morning.
                                    Love always,
                                        ROGER.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Billie was undoubtedly Shaver's nickname. This delighted The Hopper. That
                        they should possess the same name appeared to create a strong bond of
                        comradeship. The writer of the note was presumably the child's father and
                        the "Dear Sweetheart" the youngster's mother. The Hopper was not reassured
                        by these disclosures. The return of Shaver to his parents was far from being
                        the pleasant little Christmas Eve adventure he had imagined. He had only the
                        lowest opinion of a father who would, on a winter evening, carelessly leave
                        his baby in a motor-car while he looked at pictures, and who, finding both
                        motor and baby gone, would take it for granted that the baby's mother had
                        run off with them. But these people were artists, and artists, The Hopper
                        had heard, were a queer breed, sadly  lacking
                        in common sense. He tore the note into strips which he stuffed into his
                        pocket.
                    Depressed by the impenetrable wall of mystery along which he was groping, he
                        returned to the living-room, raised one of the windows and unbolted the
                        front door to make sure of an exit in case these strange, foolish Talbots
                        should unexpectedly return. The shades were up and he shielded his light
                        carefully with his cap as he passed rapidly about the room. It began to look
                        very much as though Shaver would spend Christmas at Happy Hill Farma
                        possibility that had not figured in The Hopper's calculations.
                    Flashing his lamp for a last survey a letter propped against a lamp on the
                        table arrested his eye. He dropped to the floor and crawled into a corner
                        where he turned  his light upon the note and
                        read, not without difficulty, the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Seven o'clock. Dear Roger:
                                    
                                    I 've just got back from father's where I spent the last
                                        three hours talking over our troubles. I did n't tell you I
                                        was going, knowing you would think it foolish, but it seemed
                                        best, dear, and I hope you'll forgive me. And now I find
                                        that you've gone off with Billie, and I'm guessing that
                                        you've gone to your father's to see what
                                        you can do. I 'm taking the trolley into New Haven to ask
                                        Mamie Palmer about that cook she thought we might get, and
                                        if possible I 'll bring the girl home with me. Don't trouble
                                        about me, as I'll be perfectly safe, and, as you know, I
                                        rather enjoy prowling around at night. You'll certainly get
                                        back before I do, but if I'm not here don't be alarmed.
                                    We are so happy in each other, dear, and if only we could get
                                        our foolish fathers to stop hating each other, how beautiful
                                        everything would be! And we could all have such a merry,
                                        merry Christmas!
                                    
                                        MURIEL.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The Hopper's acquaintance with the epistolary art was the slightest, but even
                        to a mind unfamiliar with this branch of literature it was plain that
                        Shaver's parents were involved in some difficulty that was attributable, not
                        to any lessening of affection between them, but to a row of some sort
                        between their respective fathers. Muriel, running into the house to write
                        her note, had failed to see Roger's letter in the studio, and this was very
                        fortunate for The Hopper; but Muriel might return at any moment, and it
                        would add nothing to the plausibility of the story he meant to tell if he
                        were found in the house.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    
                    
                    VI
                    ANXIOUS and dejected at the increasing difficulties that
                        confronted him, he was moving toward the door when a light, buoyant step
                        sounded on the veranda. In a moment the living-room lights were switched on
                        from the entry and a woman called out sharply: 
                    "Stop right where you are or I'll shoot!"
                    The authoritative voice of the speaker, the quickness with which she had
                        grasped the situation and leveled her revolver, brought The Hopper to an
                        abrupt halt in  the middle of the room, where
                        he fell with a discordant crash across the keyboard of a grand piano. He
                        turned, cowering, to confront a tall, young woman in a long ulster who
                        advanced toward him slowly, but with every mark of determination upon her
                        face. The Hopper stared beyond the gun, held in a very steady hand, into a
                        pair of fearless dark eyes. In all his experiences he had never been
                        cornered by a woman, and he stood gaping at his captor in astonishment. She
                        was a very pretty young woman, with cheeks that still had the curve of
                        youth, but with a chin that spoke for much firmness of character. A fur
                        toque perched a little to one side gave her a boyish air.
                    This undoubtedly was Shaver's mother who had caught him prowling in her
                        house, and all The Hopper's plans for 
                        explaining her son's disappearance and returning him in a manner to win
                        praise and gratitude went glimmering. There was nothing in the appearance of
                        this Muriel to encourage a hope that she was either embarrassed or alarmed
                        by his presence. He had been captured many times, but the trick had never
                        been turned by any one so cool as this young woman. She seemed to be
                        pondering with the greatest calmness what disposition she should make of
                        him. In the intentness of her thought the revolver wavered for an instant,
                        and The Hopper, without taking his eyes from her, made a cat-like spring
                        that brought him to the window he had raised against just such an emergency.
                    "None of that!" she cried, walking slowly toward him without lowering the
                        pistol. "If you attempt to jump from  that
                        window I'll shoot! But it's cold in here and you may lower it."
                    The Hopper, weighing the chances, decided that the odds were heavily against
                        escape, and lowered the window.
                    "Now," said Muriel, "step into that corner and keep your hands up where I can
                        watch them."
                    The Hopper obeyed her instructions strictly. There was a telephone on the
                        table near her and he expected her to summon help; but to his surprise she
                        calmly seated herself, resting her right elbow on the arm of the chair, her
                        head slightly tilted to one side, as she inspected him with greater
                        attention along the blueblack barrel of her automatic. Unless he made a dash
                        for liberty this extraordinary woman would, at her leisure, turn him over to
                        the police as a house-breaker  breaker and his
                        peaceful life as a chicken farmer would be at an end. Her prolonged silence
                        troubled The Hopper. He had not been more nervous when waiting for the
                        report of the juries which at times had passed upon his conduct, or for
                        judges to fix his term of imprisonment.
                    "Yes 'm," he muttered, with a view to ending a silence that had become
                        intolerable.
                    Her eyes danced to the accompaniment of her thoughts, but in no way did she
                        betray the slightest perturbation.
                    "I ain't done nothin'; hones' to God, I ain't!" he protested brokenly.
                    "I saw you through the window when you entered this room and I was watching
                        while you read that note," said his captor. "I thought it funny that you
                        should do that instead of packing up the 
                        silver. Do you mind telling me just why you read that note?"
                    "Well, miss, I jes' thought it kind o' funny there wuz n't nobody round an'
                        the letter was layin' there all open, an' I did n't see no harm in lookin'."
                    "It was awfully clever of you to crawl into the corner so nobody could see
                        your light from the windows," she said with a tinge of admiration. "I
                        suppose you thought you might find out how long the people of the house were
                        likely to be gone and how much time you could spend here. Was that it?"
                    "I reckon ut wuz somethin' like that," he agreed.
                    This was received with the noncommittal "Um" of a person whose thoughts are
                        elsewhere. Then, as though she were eliciting from an artist or man of
                        letters  a frank opinion as to his own ideas of
                        his attainments and professional standing, she asked, with a meditative air
                        that puzzled him as much as her question:
                    "Just how good a burglar are you? Can you do a job neatly and safely?"
                    The Hopper, staggered by her inquiry and overcome by modesty, shrugged his
                        shoulders and twisted about uncomfortably.
                    "I reckon as how you've pinched me I ain't much good," he replied, and was
                        rewarded with a smile followed by a light little laugh. He was beginning to
                        feel pleased that she manifested no fear of him. In fact, he had decided
                        that Shaver's mother was the most remarkable woman he had ever encountered,
                        and by all odds the handsomest. He began to take heart. Perhaps after all he
                        might hit  upon some way of restoring Shaver to
                        his proper place in the house of Talbot without making himself liable to a
                        long term for kidnaping.
                    "If you're really a successful burglar one who does n't just poke around in
                        empty houses as you were doing here, but clever and brave enough to break
                        into houses where people are living and steal things without making a mess
                        of it; and if you can play fair about it then I think I think maybe we can
                        come to terms!"
                    "Yes'm!" faltered The Hopper, beginning to wonder if Mary and Humpy had been
                        right in saying that he had lost his mind. He was so astonished that his
                        arms wavered, but she was instantly on her feet and the little automatic was
                        again on a level with his eyes.
                    
                    "Excuse me, miss, I did n't mean to drop 'em. I were n't goin' to do nothin'.
                        Hones' I wuz n't!" he pleaded with real contrition. "It jes' seemed kind o'
                        funny what ye said."
                    He grinned sheepishly. If she knew that her Billie, alias
                        Shaver, was not with her husband at his father's house, she would not be
                        dallying in this fashion. And if the young father, who painted pictures, and
                        left notes in his studio in a blind faith that his wife would find them, if
                        that trusting soul knew that Billie was asleep in a house all of whose
                        inmates had done penance behind prison bars, he would very quickly become a
                        man of action. The Hopper had never heard of such careless parenthood! These
                        people were children! His heart warmed to them in pity and admiration, as it
                        had to little Billie.
                    
                    "I forgot to ask you whether you are armed," she remarked, with just as much
                        composure as though she were asking him whether he took two lumps of sugar
                        in his tea; and then she added, "I suppose I ought to have asked you that in
                        the first place."
                    "I gotta gun in my coat right side," he confessed. "An' that's all I got," he
                        added, batting his eyes under the spell of her bewildering smile.
                    With her left hand she cautiously extracted his revolver and backed away with
                        it to the table.
                    "If you'd lied to me I should have killed you; do you understand?"
                    "Yes'm," murmured The Hopper meekly.
                    She had spoken as though homicide were a common incident of her life, but  a gleam of humor in the eyes she was watching
                        vigilantly abated her severity.
                    "You may sit down there, please!"
                    She pointed to a much bepillowed davenport and The Hopper sank down on it,
                        still with his hands up. To his deepening mystification she backed to the
                        windows and lowered the shades, and this done she sat down with the table
                        between them, remarking, 
                    "You may put your hands down now, Mr.?"
                    He hesitated, decided that it was unwise to give any of his names; and
                        respecting his scruples she said with great magnanimity: 
                    "Of course you would n't want to tell me your name, so don't trouble about
                        that."
                    She sat, wholly tranquil, her arms upon the table, both hands caressing the
                        small  automatic, while his own revolver, of
                        different pattern and larger caliber, lay close by. His status was now
                        established as that of a gentleman making a social call upon a lady who, in
                        the pleasantest manner imaginable and yet with undeniable resoluteness, kept
                        a deadly weapon pointed in the general direction of his person.
                    A clock on the mantel struck eleven with a low, silvery note. Muriel waited
                        for the last stroke and then spoke crisply and directly.
                    "We were speaking of that letter I left lying here on the table. You did n't
                        understand it, of course; you could n't not really. So I will explain it to
                        you. My husband and I married against our fathers' wishes; both of them were
                        opposed to it."
                    She waited for this to sink into his  perturbed
                        consciousness. The Hopper frowned and leaned forward to express his
                        sympathetic interest in this confidential disclosure.
                    "My father," she resumed, "is just as stupid as my father-in-law and they
                        have both continued to make us just as uncomfortable as possible. The cause
                        of the trouble is ridiculous. There's nothing against my husband or me, you
                        understand; it's simply a bitter jealousy between the two men due to the
                        fact that they are rival collectors."
                    The Hopper stared blankly. The only collectors with whom he had enjoyed any
                        acquaintance were persons who presented bills for payment.
                    "They are collectors," Muriel hastened to explain, "of ceramics precious
                        porcelains and that sort of thing."
                    
                    "Yes'm," assented The Hopper, who had n't the faintest notion of what she
                        meant.
                    "For years, whenever there have been important sales of these things, which
                        men fight for and are willing to die for whenever there has been something
                        specially fine in the market, my father-in-law he's Mr. Talbot and Mr.
                        Wilton he's my father have bid for them. There are auctions, you know, and
                        people come from all over the world looking for a chance to buy the rarest
                        pieces. They 've explored China and Japan hunting for prizes and they are
                        experts men of rare taste and judgment what you call connoisseurs."
                    The Hopper nodded gravely at the unfamiliar word, convinced that not only
                        were Muriel and her husband quite insane,  but
                        that they had inherited the infirmity.
                    "The trouble has been," Muriel continued, "that Mr. Talbot and my father both
                        like the same kind of thing; and when one has got something the other
                        wanted, of course it has added to the ill-feeling. This has been going on
                        for years and recently they have grown more bitter. When Roger and I ran off
                        and got married, that did n't help matters any; but just within a few days
                        something has happened to make things much worse than ever."
                    The Hopper's complete absorption in this novel recital was so manifest that
                        she put down the revolver with which she had been idling and folded her
                        hands.
                    "Thank ye, miss," mumbled The Hopper.
                    
                    "Only last week," Muriel continued, "my father-in-law bought one of those
                        pottery treasures a plum-blossom vase made in China hundreds of years ago
                        and very, very valuable. It belonged to a Philadelphia collector who died
                        not long ago and Mr. Talbot bought it from the executor of the estate, who
                        happened to be an old friend of his. Father was very angry, for he had been
                        led to believe that this vase was going to be offered at auction and he'd
                        have a chance to bid on it. And just before that father had got hold of a
                        jar a perfectly wonderful piece of red Lang-Yao that collectors everywhere
                        have coveted for years. This made Mr. Talbot furious at father. My husband
                        is at his father's now trying to make him see the folly of all this, and I
                        visited my father to-day to try to persuade  him to stop being so foolish. You see I wanted
                        us all to be happy for Christmas! Of course, Christmas ought to be a time of
                        gladness for everybody. Even. people in your er profession must feel that
                        Christmas is one day in the year when all hard feelings should be forgotten
                        and everybody should try to make others happy."
                    "I guess yer right, miss. Ut sure seems foolish fer folks t' git mad about
                        jugs like you says. Wuz they empty, miss?"
                    "Empty!" repeated Muriel wonderingly, not understanding at once that her
                        visitor was unaware that the "jugs" men fought over were valued as art
                        treasures and not for their possible contents. Then she laughed merrily, as
                        only the mother of Shaver could laugh.
                    "Oh! Of course they're empty! That  does seem to make it sillier, does n't it? But they're like
                        famous pictures, you know, or any beautiful work of art that only happens
                        occasionally. Perhaps it seems odd to you that men can be so crazy about
                        such things, but I suppose sometimes you have wanted
                        things very, very much, andoh!"
                    She paused, plainly confused by her tactlessness in suggesting to a member of
                        his profession the extremities to which one may be led by covetousness.
                    "Yes, miss," he remarked hastily; and he rubbed his nose with the back of his
                        hand, and grinned indulgently as he realized the cause of her embarrassment.
                        It crossed his mind that she might be playing a trick of some kind; that her
                        story, which seemed to him wholly fantastic and not at all like a chronicle
                        of the acts  of veritable human beings, was
                        merely a device for detaining him until help arrived. But he dismissed this
                        immediately as unworthy of one so pleasing, so beautiful, so perfectly
                        qualified to be the mother of Shaver !
                    "Well, just before luncheon, without telling my husband where I was going, I
                        ran away to papa's, hoping to persuade him to end this silly feud. I spent
                        the afternoon there and he was very unreasonable. He feels that Mr. Talbot
                        was n't fair about that Philadelphia purchase, and I gave it up and came
                        home. I got here a little after dark and found my husband had taken Billie
                        that's our little boy and gone. I knew, of course, that he had gone to his father's hoping to bring him round, for both our
                        fathers are simply crazy about Billie. But you see I  never go to Mr. Talbot's and my husband never goes Dear me!"
                        she broke off suddenly."I suppose I ought to telephone and see if Billie is
                        all right."
                    The Hopper, greatly alarmed, thrust his head forward as she pondered this. If
                        she telephoned to her father-in-law's to ask about Billie, the jig would be
                        up! He drew his hand across his face and fell back with relief as she went
                        on, a little absently:
                    "Mr. Talbot hates telephoning, and it might be that my husband is just
                        getting him to the point of making concessions, and I should n't want to
                        interrupt. It's so late now that of course Roger and Billie will spend the
                        night there. And Billie and Christmas ought to be a combination that would
                        soften the hardest heart! You ought to see you just ought to see  Billie! He's the cunningest, dearest baby in
                        the world!"
                    The Hopper sat pigeon-toed, beset by countless conflicting emotions. His
                        ingenuity was taxed to its utmost by the demands of this complex situation.
                        But for his returning suspicion that Muriel was leading up to something;
                        that she was detaining him for some purpose not yet apparent, he would have
                        told her of her husband's note and confessed that the adored Billie was at
                        that moment enjoying the reluctant hospitality of Happy Hill Farm. He
                        resolved to continue his policy of silence as to the young heir's
                        whereabouts until Muriel had shown her hand. She had not wholly abandoned
                        the thought of telephoning to her father-in-law's, he found, from her next
                        remark.
                    "You think it's all right, don't you?  It's
                        strange Roger did n't leave me a note of some kind. Our cook left a week ago
                        and there was no one here when he left."
                    "I reckon as how yer kid's all right, miss," he answered consolingly.
                    Her voluble confidences had enthralled him, and her reference of this matter
                        to his judgment was enormously flattering. On the rough edges of society
                        where he had spent most of his life, fellow craftsmen had frequently
                        solicited his advice, chiefly as to the disposition of their illgotten gains
                        or regarding safe harbors of refuge, but to lie taken into counsel by the
                        only gentlewoman he had ever met roused his self-respect, touched a chivalry
                        that never before had been wakened in The Hopper's soul. She was so like a
                        child in her guilelessness, and so brave amid her perplexities!
                    
                    "Oh, I know Roger will take beautiful care of Billie. And now," she smiled
                        radiantly, "you're probably wondering what I've been driving at all this
                        time. Maybe" she added softly "maybe it's providential, your turning up here
                        in this way !"
                    She uttered this happily, with a little note of triumph and another of her
                        smiles that seemed to illuminate the universe. The Hopper had been called
                        many names in his varied career, but never before had he been invested with
                        the attributes of an agent of Providence.
                    "They's things wot is an' they's things wot ain't, miss; I reckon I ain't as
                        bad as some. I mean to be on the square, miss."
                    "I believe that," she said. "I've always heard there's honor among thieves,
                             and" she lowered her voice to a whisper
                        "it's possible I might become one myself!"
                    The Hopper's eyes opened wide and he crossed and uncrossed his legs nervously
                        in his agitation.
                    "If if " she began slowly, bending forward with a grave, earnest look in her
                        eyes and clasping her fingers tightly "if we could only get hold of father's
                        Lang-Yao jar and that plum-blossom vase Mr. Talbot has if we could only do
                        that!"
                    The Hopper swallowed hard. This fearless, pretty young woman was calmly
                        suggesting that he commit two felonies, little knowing that his score for
                        the day already aggregated three purse-snatching, the theft of an automobile
                        from her own door, and what might very readily 
                        be construed as the kidnaping of her own child!
                    "I don't know, miss," he said feebly, calculating that the sum total of even
                        minimum penalties for the five crimes would outrun his natural life and
                        consume an eternity of reincarnations.
                    "Of course it would n't be stealing in the ordinary sense," she explained.
                        "What I want you to do is to play the part of what we will call a reversible
                        Santa Claus, who takes things away from stupid people who don't enjoy them
                        anyhow. And maybe if they lost these things they'd behave themselves. I
                        could explain afterward that it was all my fault, and of course I would n't
                        let any harm come to you. I'd be responsible, and of
                        course I'd see you safely out of it; you would have to rely on me for that.
                        I'm  trusting youand you'd
                        have to trust me!"
                    "Oh, I 'd trust ye, miss! An' ef I was to get pinched I would n't never
                        squeal on ye. We don't never blab on a pal, miss!"
                    He was afraid she might resent being called a "pal," but his use of the term
                        apparently pleased her.
                    "We understand each other, then. It really won't be very difficult, for
                        papa's place is over on the Sound and Mr. Talbot's is right next to it, so
                        you would n't have far to go."
                    Her utter failure to comprehend the enormity of the thing she was proposing
                        affected him queerly. Even among hardened criminals in the underworld such
                        undertakings are suggested cautiously; but Muriel was ordering a burglary as
                             though it were a pound of butter or a
                        dozen eggs!
                    "Father keeps his most valuable glazes in a safe in the pantry," she resumed
                        after a moment's reflection, "but I can give you the combination. That will
                        make it a lot easier."
                    The Hopper assented, with a pontifical nod, to this sanguine view of the
                        matter.
                    "Mr. Talbot keeps his finest pieces in a cabinet built into the bookshelves
                        in his library. It's on the left side as you stand in the drawing-room door,
                        and you look for the works of Thomas Carlyle. There's a dozen or so volumes
                        of Carlyle, only they're not books, not really, but just the backs of books
                        painted on the steel of a safe. And if you press a spring in the upper
                        right-hand corner of the shelf just over these books  the whole section swings out. I suppose you've seen that sort
                        of hiding-place for valuables?"
                    "Well, not exactly, miss. But havin' a tip helps, an' ef there ain't no soup
                        to pour "
                    "Soup?" inquired Muriel, wrinkling her pretty brows.
                    "That's the juice we pour into the cracks of a safe to blow out the lid
                        with," The Hopper elucidated. "Ut's a lot handier ef you've got the
                        combination. Ut usually ain't jes' layin' around."
                    "I should hope not!" exclaimed Muriel.
                    She took a sheet of paper from the leathern stationery rack and fell to
                        scribbling, while he furtively eyed the window and again put from him the
                        thought of flight.
                    "There! That's the combination of  papa's
                        safe." She turned her wrist and glanced at her watch. "It's half-past eleven
                        and you can catch a trolley in ten minutes that will take you right past
                        papa's house. The butler's an old man who forgets to lock the windows half
                        the time, and there's one in the conservatory with a broken catch. I noticed
                        it to-day when I was thinking about stealing the jar myself!"
                    They were established on so firm a basis of mutual confidence that when he
                        rose and walked to the table she did n't lift her eyes from the paper on
                        which she was drawing a diagram of her father's house. He stood watching her
                        nimble fingers, fascinated by the boldness of her plan for restoring amity
                        between Shaver's grandfathers, and filled with admiration for her
                        resourcefulness.
                    
                    He asked a few questions as to exits and entrances and fixed in his mind a
                        very accurate picture of the home of her father. She then proceeded to
                        enlighten him as to the ways and means of entering the home of her
                        father-in-law, which she sketched with equal facility.
                    "There's a French window a narrow glass door on the veranda. I think you
                        might get in there!" She made a jab with the pencil. "Of
                        course I should hate awfully to have you get caught! But you must have had a
                        lot of experience, and with all the help I'm giving you !"
                    A sudden lifting of her head gave him the full benefit of her eyes and he
                        averted his gaze reverently.
                    "There's always a chance o' bein' nabbed, miss," he suggested with feeling.
                    Shaver's mother wielded the same hypnotic 
                        power, highly intensified, that he had felt in Shaver. He knew that he was
                        going to attempt what she asked; that he was committed to the project of
                        robbing two houses merely to please a pretty young woman who invited his
                        coperation at the point of a revolver!
                    "Papa's always a sound sleeper," she was saying. "When I was a little girl a
                        burglar went all through our house and carried off his clothes and he never
                        knew it until the next morning. But you'll have to be careful at Mr.
                        Talbot's, for he suffers horribly from insomnia."
                    "They got any o' them fancy burglar alarms?" asked The Hopper as he concluded
                        his examination of her sketches.
                    "Oh, I forgot to tell you about that!" she cried contritely. "There's nothing
                        of the kind at Mr. Talbot's, but at papa's 
                        there's a switch in the living-room, right back of a bust a white marble
                        thing on a pedestal. You turn it off there. Half the time
                        papa forgets to switch it on before he goes to bed. And another thing be
                        careful about stumbling over that bearskin rug in the hall. People are
                        always sticking their feet into its jaws."
                    "I'll look out for ut, miss."
                    Burglar alarms and the jaws of wild beasts were not inviting hazards. The
                        programme she outlined so light-heartedly was full of complexities. It was
                        almost pathetic that any one could so cheerfully and irresponsibly suggest
                        the perpetration of a crime. The terms she used in describing the loot he
                        was to filch were much stranger to him than Chinese, but it was fairly clear
                        that at the Talbot house he was to steal a blue-and-white  thing and at the Wilton's a red one. The form
                        and size of these articles she illustrated with graceful gestures.
                    "If I thought you were likely to make a mistake I'd I'd go with you!" she
                        declared.
                    "Oh, no, miss; ye could n't do that! I guess I can do ut fer ye. Ut's jes' a
                            leetle ticklish. I reckon ef yer pa wuz to nab me ut'd
                        go hard with me."
                    "I would n't let him be hard on you," she replied earnestly. "And now I have
                        n't said anything about a a about what we will call a reward for bringing me these porcelains. I shall expect to pay you; I
                        could n't think of taking up your time, you know, for nothing!"
                    "Lor', miss, I could n't take nothin' at all fer doin' ut! Ye see ut wuz sort
                        of accidental our meetin', and besides, I ain't  no housebreaker not, as ye may say, reg'ler. I'll be glad to do ut fer
                        ye, miss, an' ye can rely on me doin' my best fer ye. Ye've treated me
                        right, miss, an' I ain't a-goin' t' fergit ut!"
                    The Hopper spoke with feeling. Shaver's mother had, albeit at the pistol
                        point, confided her most intimate domestic affairs to him. He realized,
                        without finding just these words for it, that she had in effect decorated
                        him with the symbol of her order of knighthood and he had every honorable or
                        dishonorable! intention of proving himself worthy of her confidence.
                    "If ye please, miss," he said, pointing toward his confiscated revolver.
                    "Certainly; you may take it. But of course you won't kill
                        anybody?"
                    "No, miss; only I'm sort o' lonesome without ut when I'm on a job."
                    
                    "And you do understand," she said, following him to the door and noting in
                        the distance the headlight of an approaching trolley, "that I'm only doing
                        this in the hope that good may come of it. It is n't really criminal, you
                        know; if you succeed, it may mean the happiest Christmas of my life!"
                    "Yes, miss. I won't come back till mornin', but don't you worry none. We
                        gotta play safe, miss, an' ef I land th' jugs I'll find cover till I kin
                        deliver 'em safe."
                    "Thank you; oh, thank you ever so much! And good luck!"
                    She put out her hand; he held it gingerly for a moment in his rough fingers
                        and ran for the car.
                    
                
                
                
                    VII
                    
                    
                    VII
                    THE HOPPER, in his role of the
                        Reversible Santa Claus, dropped off the car at the crossing Muriel had
                        carefully described, waited for the car to vanish, and warily entered the
                        Wilton estate through a gate set in the stone wall. The clouds of the early
                        evening had passed and the stars marched through the heavens resplendently,
                        proclaiming peace on earth and good-will toward men. They were almost
                        oppressively brilliant, seen through the clear, cold atmosphere, and as The
                        Hopper slipped from one big tree to another on  his tangential course to the house, he fortified his courage by
                        muttering, "They's things wot is an' things wot ain't!" finding much comfort
                        and stimulus in the phrase.
                    Arriving at the conservatory in due course, he found that Muriel's averments
                        as to the vulnerability of that corner of her father's house were correct in
                        every particular. He entered with ease, sniffed the warm, moist air, and,
                        leaving the door slightly ajar, sought the pantry, lowered the shades, and,
                        helping himself to a candle from a silver candelabrum, readily found the
                        safe hidden away in one of the cupboards. He was surprised to find himself
                        more nervous with the combination in his hand than on memorable occasions in
                        the old days when he had broken into country postoffices and assaulted safes
                             by force. In his haste he twice failed to
                        give the proper turns, but the third time the knob caught, and in a moment
                        the door swung open disclosing shelves filled with vases, bottles, bowls,
                        and plates in bewildering variety. A chest of silver appealed to him
                        distractingly as a much more tangible asset than the pottery, and he dizzily
                        contemplated a jewel-case containing a diamond necklace with a pearl
                        pendant. The moment was a critical one in The Hopper's eventful career. This
                        dazzling prize was his for the taking, and he knew the operator of a fence
                        in Chicago who would dispose of the necklace and make him a fair return. But
                        visions of Muriel, the beautiful, the confiding, and of her little Shaver
                        asleep on Humpy's bed, rose before him. He steeled his heart against
                        temptation, drew his candle along  the shelf
                        and scrutinized the glazes. There could be no mistaking the red Lang-Yao
                        whose brilliant tints kindled in the candleglow. He lifted it tenderly,
                        verifying the various points of Muriel's description, set it down on the
                        floor and locked the safe.
                    He was retracing his steps toward the conservatory and had reached the main
                        hall when the creaking of the stairsteps brought him up with a start. Some
                        one was descending, slowly and cautiously. For a second time and with
                        grateful appreciation of Muriel's forethought, he carefully avoided the
                        ferocious jaws of the bear, noiselessly continued on to the conservatory,
                        crept through the door, closed it, and then, crouching on the steps, awaited
                        developments. The caution exercised by the person descending the  stairway was not that of a householder who
                        has been roused from slumber by a disquieting noise. The Hopper was keenly
                        interested in this fact.
                    With his face against the glass he watched the actions of a tall, elderly man
                        with a short, grayish beard, who wore a golf-cap pulled low on his
                        headpoints noted by The Hopper in the flashes of an electric lamp with which
                        the gentleman was guiding himself. His face was clearly the original of a
                        photograph The Hopper had seen on the table at Muriel's cottageMr. Wilton,
                        Muriel's father, The Hopper surmised; but just why the owner of the
                        establishment should be prowling about in this fashion taxed his speculative
                        powers to the utmost. Warned by steps on the cement floor of the
                        conservatory, he left the door in haste and flat  himself against the wall of the house some distance away and
                        again awaited developments.
                    Wilton's figure was a blur in the starlight as he stepped out into the walk
                        and started furtively across the grounds. His conduct greatly displeased The
                        Hopper, as likely to interfere with the further carrying out of Muriel's
                        instructions. The Lang-Yao jar was much too large to go into his pocket and
                        not big enough to fit snugly under his arm, and as the walk was slippery he
                        was beset by the fear that he might fall and smash this absurd thing that
                        had caused so bitter an enmity between Shaver's grandfathers. The soft snow
                        on the lawn gave him a surer footing and he crept after Wilton, who was
                        carefully pursuing his way toward a house whose gables were faintly limned
                        against 
                        
                            THE FAINT CLICK OF A LATCH MARKED THE PROWLER'S PROXIMITY TO A
                            HEDGE
                        
                        
                         the sky. This, according to Muriel's diagram,
                        was the Talbot place. The Hopper greatly mistrusted conditions he did n't
                        understand, and he was at a loss to account for Wilton's strange actions.
                    He lost sight of him for several minutes, then the faint click of a latch
                        marked the prowler's proximity to a hedge that separated the two estates.
                        The Hopper crept forward, found a gate through which Wilton had entered his
                        neighbor's property, and stole after him. Wilton had been swallowed up by
                        the deep shadow of the house, but The Hopper was aware, from an occasional
                        scraping of feet, that he was still moving forward. He crawled over the snow
                        until he reached a large tree whose boughs, sharply limned against the
                        stars, brushed the eaves of the house.
                    The Hopper was aroused, tremendously  aroused,
                        by the unaccountable actions of Muriel's father. It flashed upon him that
                        Wilton, in his deep hatred of his rival collector, was about to set fire to
                        Talbot's house, and incendiarism was a crime which The Hopper, with all his
                        moral obliquity, greatly abhorred.
                    Several minutes passed, a period of anxious waiting, and then a sound reached
                        him which, to his keen professional sense, seemed singularly like the
                        forcing of a window. The Hopper knew just how much pressure is necessary to
                        the successful snapping back of a window catch, and Wilton had done the
                        trick neatly and with a minimum amount of noise. The window thus assaulted
                        was not, he now determined, the French window suggested by Muriel, but one
                        opening on a terrace which ran along the front of the house.  The Hopper heard the sash moving slowly in
                        the frame. He reached the steps, deposited the jar in a pile of snow, and
                        was soon peering into a room where Wilton's presence was advertised by the
                        fitful flashing of his lamp in a far corner.
                    "He's beat me to ut!" muttered The Hopper, realizing that Muriel's father was
                        indeed on burglary bent, his obvious purpose being to purloin, extract, and
                        remove from its secret hiding-place the coveted plum-blossom vase. Muriel,
                        in her longing for a Christmas of peace and happiness, had not reckoned with
                        her father's passionate desire to possess the porcelain treasure a desire
                        which could hardly fail to cause scandal, if it did not land him behind
                        prison bars.
                    This had not been in the programme, and The Hopper weighed judicially his  further duty in the matter. Often as he had
                        been the chief actor in daring robberies, he had never before enjoyed the
                        high privilege of watching a rival's labors with complete detachment. Wilton
                        must have known of the concealed cupboard whose panel fraudulently
                        represented the works of Thomas Carlyle, the intent spectator reflected,
                        just as Muriel had known, for though he used his lamp sparingly Wilton had
                        found his way to it without difficulty.
                    The Hopper had no intention of permitting this monstrous larceny to be
                        committed in contravention of his own rights in the premises, and he was
                        considering the best method of wresting the vase from the hands of the
                        insolent Wilton when events began to multiply with startling rapidity. The
                        panel swung open  and the thief's lamp flashed
                        upon shelves of pottery.
                    At that moment a shout rose from somewhere in the house, and the library
                        lights were thrown on, revealing Wilton before the shelves and their
                        precious contents. A short, stout gentleman with a gleaming bald pate, clad
                        in pajamas, dashed across the room, and with a yell of rage flung himself
                        upon the intruder with a violence that bore them both to the floor.
                    "Roger! Roger!" bawled the smaller man, as he struggled with his adversary,
                        who wriggled from under and rolled over upon Talbot, whose arms were clasped
                        tightly about his neck. This embrace seemed likely to continue for some
                        time, so tenaciously had the little man gripped his neighbor. The fat legs
                        of the infuriated  householder pawed the air
                        as he hugged Wilton, who was now trying to free his head and gain a position
                        of greater dignity. Occasionally, as opportunity offered, the little man
                        yelled vociferously, and from remote recesses of the house came answering
                        cries demanding information as to the nature and whereabouts of the
                        disturbance.
                    The contestants addressed themselves vigorously to a spirited
                        rough-and-tumble fight. Talbot, who was the more easily observed by reason
                        of his shining pate and the pink stripes of his pajamas, appeared to be
                        revolving about the person of his neighbor. Wilton, though taller, lacked
                        the rotund Talbot's liveliness of attack.
                    An authoritative voice, which The Hopper attributed to Shaver's father,  anxiously demanding what was the matter,
                        terminated The Hopper's enjoyment of the struggle. Enough was the matter to
                        satisfy The Hopper that a prolonged stay in the neighborhood might be highly
                        detrimental to his future liberty. The combatants had rolled a considerable
                        distance away from the shelves and were near a door leading into a room
                        beyond. A young man in a bath-wrapper dashed upon the scene, and in his
                        precipitate arrival upon the battle-field fell sprawling across the prone
                        figures. The Hopper, suddenly inspired to deeds of prowess, crawled through
                        the window, sprang past the three men, seized the blue-and-white vase which
                        Wilton had separated from the rest of Talbot's treasures, and then with one
                        hop gained the window. As he turned for a last look, a pistol  cracked and he landed upon the terrace amid a
                        shower of glass from a shattered pane.
                    A woman of unmistakable Celtic origin screamed murder from a third-story
                        window. The thought of murder was disagreeable to The Hopper. Shaver's
                        father had missed him by only the matter of a foot or two, and as he had no
                        intention of offering himself again as a target he stood not upon the order
                        of his going.
                    He effected a running pick-up of the Lang-Yao, and with this art treasure
                        under one arm and the plum-blossom vase under the other, he sprinted for the
                        highway, stumbling over shrubbery, bumping into a stone bench that all but
                        caused disaster, and finally reached the road on which he continued his
                        flight toward New Haven, followed by cries  in
                        many keys and a fusillade of pistol shots.
                    Arriving presently at a hamlet, where he paused for breath in the rear of a
                        country store, he found a basket and a quantity of paper in which he
                        carefully packed his loot. Over the top he spread some faded lettuce leaves
                        and discarded carnations which communicated something of a blithe holiday
                        air to his encumbrance. Elsewhere he found a bicycle under a shed, and while
                        cycling over a snowy road in the dark, hampered by a basket containing
                        pottery representative of the highest genius of the Orient, was not without
                        its difficulties and dangers, The Hopper made rapid progress.
                    Halfway through New Haven he approached two policemen and slowed down to
                        allay suspicion.
                    
                    "Merry Chris'mas!" he called as he passed them and increased his weight upon
                        the pedals.
                    The officers of the law, cheered as by a greeting from Santa Claus himself,
                        responded with an equally hearty Merry Christmas.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    
                    
                    VIII
                    AT three o'clock The Hopper reached Happy Hill Farm,
                        knocked as before at the kitchen door, and was admitted by Humpy.
                    "Wot ye got now?" snarled the reformed yeggman.
                    "He's gone and done ut ag'in!" wailed Mary, as she spied the basket.
                    "I sure done ut, all right," admitted The Hopper good-naturedly, as he set
                        the basket on the table where a few hours earlier he had deposited Shaver.
                        "How's the kid?"
                    
                    Grudging assurances that Shaver was asleep and hostile glances directed at
                        the mysterious basket did not disturb his equanimity.
                    Humpy was thwarted in an attempt to pry into the contents of the basket by a
                        tart reprimand from The Hopper, who with maddening deliberation drew forth
                        the two glazes, found that they had come through the night's vicissitudes
                        unscathed, and held them at arm's length, turning them about in leisurely
                        fashion as though lost in admiration of their loveliness. Then he lighted
                        his pipe, seated himself in Mary's rocker, and told his story.
                    It was no easy matter to communicate to his irritable and contumelious
                        auditors the sense of Muriel's charm, or the reasonableness of her request
                        that he  commit burglary merely to assist her
                        in settling a family row. Mary could not understand it, Humpy paced the room
                        nervously, shaking his head and muttering. It was their judgment, stated
                        with much frankness, that if he had been a fool in the first place to steal
                        the child, his character was now blackened beyond any hope by his later
                        crimes. Mary wept copiously; Humpy most annoyingly kept counting upon his
                        fingers as he reckoned the "time" that was in store for all of them.
                    "I guess I got into ut an' I guess I'll git out," remarked the Hopper
                        serenely. He was disposed to treat them with high condescension, as
                        incapable of appreciating the lofty philosophy of life by which he was
                        sustained. Meanwhile, he gloated over the loot of the night.
                    
                    "Them things is wurt' mints; they's more valible than di'mon's, them things
                        is! Only eddicated folks knows about 'em. They's fer emp'rors and kings t'
                        set up in their palaces, an' men goes nutty jes' hankerin' fer 'em. The
                        pigtails made 'em thousand o' years back, an' th' secret died with 'em. They
                        ain't never goin' to be no more jugs like them settin' right there. An' them
                        two ole sports give up their business jes' t' chase things like them. They's
                        some folks goes loony about chickens, an' hosses, an' fancy dogs, but this
                        here kind o' collectin' 's only fer millionaires. They's more difficult t'
                        pick than a lucky race-hoss. They's barrels o' that stuff in them houses,
                        that looked jes' as good as them there, but nowheres as valible."
                    An informal lecture on Chinese ceramics  before
                        daylight on Christmas morning was not to the liking of the anxious and
                        nerve-torn Mary and Humpy. They brought The Hopper down from his lofty
                        heights to practical questions touching his plans, for the disposal of
                        Shaver in the first instance, and the ceramics in the second. The Hopper was
                        singularly unmoved by their forebodings.
                    "I guess th' lady got me to do ut!" he retorted finally. "Ef I do time fer ut
                        I reckon's how she's in fer ut, too! An' I seen her pap breakin' into a
                        house an' I guess I'd be a state's witness fer that! I reckon they ain't
                        goin' t' put nothin' over on Hop! I guess they won't peep much about
                        kidnapin' with th' kid safe an' us pickin' 'im up out o' th' road an'
                        shelterin' 'im. Them folks is goin' to be awful nice to Hop fer all he done
                        fer 'em." And  then, finding that they were
                        impressed by his defense, thus elaborated, he magnanimously referred to the
                        bill-book which had started him on his downward course.
                    "That were a mistake; I grant ye ut were a mistake o' jedgment. I 'm goin' to
                        keep to th' white card. But ut's kind o' funny about that pokequeerest thing
                        that ever happened."
                    He drew out the book and eyed the name on the flap. Humpy tried to grab it,
                        but The Hopper, frustrating the attempt, read his colleague a sharp lesson
                        in good manners. He restored it to his pocket and glanced at the clock.
                    "We gotta do somethin' about Shaver's stockin's. Ut ain't fair fer a kid to
                        wake up an' think Santy missed 'im. Ye got some candy, Mary; we kin put
                        candy into 'em; that's reg'ler."
                    
                    Humpy brought in Shaver's stockings and they were stuffed with the candy and
                        popcorn Mary had provided to adorn their Christmas feast. Humpy inventoried
                        his belongings, but could think of nothing but a revolver that seemed a
                        suitable gift for Shaver. This Mary scornfully rejected as improper for one
                        so young. Whereupon Humpy produced a Mexican silver dollar, a treasured
                        pocket-piece preserved through many tribulations, and dropped it reverently
                        into one of the stockings. Two brass buttons of unknown history, a
                        mouth-organ Mary had bought for a neighbor boy who assisted at times in the
                        poultry yard, and a silver spectacle case of uncertain antecedents were
                        added.
                    "We ought t' 'a' colored eggs fer 'im!" said the Hopper with sudden
                        inspiration,  after the stockings had been
                        restored to Shaver's bed. "Some yaller an' pink eggs would 'a' been the
                        right ticket."
                    Mary scoffed at the idea. Eggs was n't proper fer Christmas; eggs was fer
                        Easter. Humpy added the weight of his personal experience of Christian
                        holidays to this statement. While a trusty in the Missouri penitentiary with
                        the chicken yard in his keeping, he remembered distinctly that eggs were in
                        demand for purposes of decoration by the warden's children sometime in the
                        spring; mebbe it was Easter, mebbe it was Decoration Day; Humpy was not sure
                        of anything except that it was n't Christmas.
                    The Hopper was meek under correction. It having been settled that colored
                        eggs would not be appropriate for Christmas he yielded to their demand that
                        he show  some enthusiasm for disposing of his
                        ill-gotten treasures before the police arrived to take the matter out of his
                        hands.
                    "I guess that Muriel'll be glad to see me," he remarked. "I guess me and her
                        understands each other. They's things wot is an' things wot ain't; an' I
                        guess Hop ain't goin' to spend no Chris'mas in jail. It's the white card an'
                        poultry an' eggs fer us; an' we're goin' t' put in a couple more incubators
                        right away. I'm thinkin' some o' rentin' that acre across th' brook back
                        yonder an' raisin' turkeys. They's mints in turks, ef ye kin keep 'em from
                        gettin' their feet wet an' dyin' o' pneumonia, which wipes out thousands o'
                        them birds. I reckon ye might make some coffee, Mary."
                    The Christmas dawn found them at the table, where they were renewing a  pledge to play "the white card" when a cry
                        from Shaver brought them to their feet.
                    Shaver was highly pleased with his Christmas stockings, but his pleasure was
                        nothing to that of The Hopper, Mary, and Humpy, as they stood about the bed
                        and watched him. Mary and Humpy were so relieved by The Hopper's promises to
                        lead a better life that they were now disposed to treat their guest with the
                        most distinguished consideration. Humpy, absenting himself to perform his
                        morning tasks in the poultry-houses, returned bringing a basket containing
                        six newly hatched chicks. These cheeped and ran over Shaver's fat legs and
                        performed exactly as though they knew they were a part of his Christmas
                        entertainment. Humpy, proud of having thought of the  chicks, demanded the privilege of serving Shaver's breakfast.
                        Shaver ate his porridge without a murmur, so happy was he over his new
                        playthings.
                    Mary bathed and dressed him with care. As the candy had stuck to the
                        stockings in spots, it was decided after a family conference that Shaver
                        would have to wear them wrong side out as there was no time to be wasted in
                        washing them. By eight o'clock The Hopper announced that it was time for
                        Shaver to go home. Shaver expressed alarm at the thought of leaving his
                        chicks; whereupon Humpy conferred two of them upon him in the best imitation
                        of baby talk that he could muster.
                    "Me's tate um to me's gwanpas," said Shaver; "chickee for me's two gwanpas,"
                        a remark which caused The Hopper  to shake
                        for a moment with mirth as he recalled his last view of Shaver's "gwan-pas"
                        in a death grip upon the floor of "Gwanpa" Talbot's house.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    
                    
                    IX
                    WHEN The Hopper rolled away from Happy Hill Farm in the
                        stolen machine, accompanied by one stolen child and forty thousand dollars'
                        worth of stolen pottery, Mary wept, whether because of the parting with
                        Shaver, or because she feared that The Hopper would never return, was not
                        clear.
                    Humpy, too, showed signs of tears, but concealed his weakness by performing a
                        grotesque dance, dancing grotesquely by the side of the car, much to
                        Shaver's joy a joy enhanced just as the car 
                        reached the gate, where, as a farewell attention, Humpy fell down and rolled
                        over and over in the snow.
                    The Hopper's wits were alert as he bore Shaver homeward. By this time it was
                        likely that the confiding young Talbots had conferred over the telephone and
                        knew that their offspring had disappeared. Doubtless the New Haven police
                        had been notified, and he chose his route with discretion to avoid
                        unpleasant encounters. Shaver, his spirits keyed to holiday pitch, babbled
                        ceaselessly, and The Hopper, highly elated, babbled back at him.
                    They arrived presently at the rear of the young Talbots' premises, and The
                        Hopper, with Shaver trotting at his side, advanced cautiously upon the house
                        bearing the two baskets, one containing Shaver's  chicks, the other the precious porcelains. In his survey of
                        the landscape he noted with trepidation the presence of two big limousines
                        in the highway in front of the cottage and decided that if possible he must
                        see Muriel alone and make his report to her.
                    The moment he entered the kitchen he heard the clash of voices in angry
                        dispute in the living-room. Even Shaver was startled by the violence of the
                        conversation in progress within, and clutched tightly a fold of The Hopper's
                        trousers.
                    "I tell you it's John Wilton who has stolen Billie!" a man cried
                        tempestuously. "Anybody who would enter a neighbor's house in the dead of
                        night and try to rob him rob him, yes, and murderhim in
                        the most brutal fashion would not scruple to steal his own grandchild!"
                    
                    Me's gwanpa," whispered Shaver, gripping The Hopper's hand, "an' "'im's mad."
                    That Mr. Talbot was very angry indeed was established beyond cavil. However,
                        Mr. Wilton was apparently quite capable of taking care of himself in the
                        dispute.
                    "You talk about my stealing when you robbed me of my Lang-Yao bribed my
                        servants to plunder my safe! I want you to understand once for all, Roger
                        Talbot, that if that jar is n't returned within one hour, within one hour,
                        sir, I shall turn you over to the police!"
                    "Liar!" bellowed Talbot, who possessed a voice of great resonance. "You can't
                        mitigate your foul crime by charging me with another! I never saw your jar;
                        I never wanted it! I would n't have the thing on my place!"
                    
                    Muriel's voice, full of tears, was lifted in expostulation.
                    "How can you talk of your silly vases when Billie's lost! Billie's been
                        stolen and you two men can think of nothing but pot-ter-ree!"
                    Shaver lifted a startled face to The Hopper.
                    "Mamma's cwyin'; gwanpa's hurted mamma!"
                    The strategic moment had arrived when Shaver must be thrust forward as an
                        interruption to the exchange of disagreeable epithets by his grandfathers.
                    "You trot right in there t' yer ma, Shaver. Ole Hop ain't goin' t' let 'em
                        hurt ye!"
                    He led the child through the dining-room to the living-room door and pushed
                        him gently on the scene of strife. Talbot, 
                        senior, was pacing the floor with angry strides, declaiming upon his wrongs,
                        indeed, his theme might have been the misery of the whole human race from
                        the vigor of his lamentations. His son was keeping step with him, vainly
                        attempting to persuade him to sit down. Wilton, with a patch over his right
                        eye, was trying to disengage himself from his daughter's arms with the
                        obvious intention of doing violence to his neighbor.
                    "I'm sure papa never meant to hurt you; it was all a dreadful mistake," she
                        moaned.
                    "He had an accomplice," Talbot thundered, "and while he was trying to kill me
                        there in my own house the plum-blossom vase was carried off; and if Roger
                        had n't pushed him out of the window after his hireling I'd I'd "
                    
                    A shriek from Muriel happily prevented the completion of a sentence that gave
                        every promise of intensifying the prevailing hard feeling.
                    "Look!" Muriel cried. "It's Billie come back! Oh, Billie!"
                    She sprang toward the door and clasped the frightened child to her heart. The
                        three men gathered round them, staring dully. The Hopper from behind the
                        door waited for Muriel's joy over Billie's return to communicate itself to
                        his father and the two grandfathers.
                    "Me's dot two chick-eesfor Kwismus," announced Billie,
                        wriggling in his mother's arms.
                    Muriel, having satisfied herself that Billie was intact, that he even bore
                        the marks of maternal care, was in the act of transferring him to his
                        bewildered  father, when, turning a
                        tear-stained face toward the door, she saw The Hopper awkwardly twisting the
                        derby which he had donned as proper for a morning call of ceremony. She
                        walked toward him with quick, eager step.
                    "Youyou came back!" she faltered, stifling a sob.
                    "Yes'm," responded The Hopper, rubbing his hand across his nose. His
                        appearance roused Billie's father to a sense of his parental responsibility.
                    "You brought the boy back! You are the kidnaper!"
                    "Roger," cried Muriel protestingly, "don't speak like that! I'm sure this
                        gentleman can explain how he came to bring Billie."
                    The quickness with which she regained her composure, the ease with which she
                            
                        
                            THE THREE MEN GATHERED ROUND THEM, STARING DULLY
                        
                        
                         adjusted herself to the unforeseen situation,
                        pleased The Hopper greatly. He had not misjudged Muriel; she was an
                        admirable ally, an ideal confederate. She gave him a quick little nod, as
                        much as to say, "Go on, sir; we understand each other perfectly," though, of
                        course, she did not understand, nor was she enlightened until some time
                        later, as to just how The Hopper became possessed of Billie.
                    Billie's father declared his purpose to invoke the law upon his son's
                        kidnapers no matter where they might be found.
                    "I reckon as mebbe ut wuz a kidnapin' an' I reckon as mebbe ut wuz n't," The
                        Hopper began unhurriedly. "I live over Shell Road way; poultry and eggs is
                        my line; Happy Hill Farm. Stevens 's the name Charles S. Stevens. An' I
                        found  Shaver 'scuse me, but ut seemed sort o'
                        nat'ral name fer 'im I found 'im a settin' up in th' machine over there by
                        my place, chipper's ye please. I takes 'im into my house an' Mary that's th'
                        missusshe gives 'im supper and puts 'im t' sleep. An' we thinks mebbe
                        somebody'd come along askin' fer 'im. An' then this mornin' I calls th' New
                        Haven police, an' they tole me about you folks, an' me and Shaver comes
                        right over."
                    This was entirely plausible and his hearers, The Hopper noted with relief,
                        accepted it at face value.
                    "How dear of you!" cried Muriel. "Won't you have this chair, Mr. Stevens!"
                    "Most remarkable!" exclaimed Wilton. "Some scoundrelly tramp picked up the
                        car and finding there was a baby inside  left
                        it at the roadside like the brute he was!"
                    Billie had addressed himself promptly to the Christmas tree, to his very own
                        Christmas tree that was laden with gifts that had been assembled by the
                        family for his delectation. Efforts of Grandfather Wilton to extract from
                        the child some account of the man who had run away with him were unavailing.
                        Billie was busy, very busy, indeed. After much patient effort he stopped
                        sorting the animals in a bright new Noah's Ark to point his finger at The
                        Hopper and remark: 
                    "'Ims nice mans; 'ims let Bil-lee play wif 'ims watch!"
                    As Billie had broken the watch his acknowledgment of The Hopper's courtesy in
                        letting him play with it brought a grin to The Hopper's face.
                    
                    Now that Billie had been returned and his absence satisfactorily accounted
                        for, the two connoisseurs showed signs of renewing their quarrel. Responsive
                        to a demand from Billie, The Hopper got down on the floor to assist in the
                        proper mating of Noah's animals. Billie's father was scrutinizing him
                        fixedly and The Hopper wondered whether Muriel's handsome young husband had
                        recognized him as the person who had vanished through the window of the
                        Talbot home bearing the plum-blossom vase. The thought was disquieting; but
                        feigning deep interest in the Ark he listened attentively to a violent
                        tirade upon which the senior Talbot was launched.
                    "My God!" he cried bitterly, planting himself before Wilton in a belligerent
                        attitude, "every infernal thing that can 
                        happen to a man happened to me yesterday. It was n't enough that you robbed
                        me and tried to murder me yes, you did, sir! but when I was in the city I
                        was robbed in the subway by a pickpocket. A thief took my bill-book
                        containing invaluable data I had just received from my agent in China giving
                        me a clue to porcelains, sir, such as you never dreamed of! Some more of
                        your work Don't you contradict me! You don't contradict me! Roger, he does
                        n't contradict me!"
                    Wilton, choking with indignation at this new onslaught, was unable to
                        contradict him.
                    Pained by the situation, The Hopper rose from the floor and coughed timidly.
                    "Shaver, go fetch yer chickies. Bring yer chickies in an' put 'em on th'
                        boat."
                    
                    Billie obediently trotted off toward the kitchen and The Hopper turned his
                        back upon the Christmas tree, drew out the pocket-book and faced the
                        company.
                    "I beg yer pardon, gents, but mebbe this is th' book yer fightin' about. Kind
                        o' funny like! I picked ut up on th' local yistiddy afternoon. I wuz goin'
                        t' turn ut hit' th' agint, but I clean fergot ut. I guess them papers may be
                        valible. I never touched none of 'em."
                    Talbot snatched the bill-book and hastily examined the contents. His brow
                        relaxed and he was grumbling something about a reward when Billie
                        reappeared, laboriously dragging two baskets.
                    "Bil-lee's dot chick-ees! Bil-lee's dot pitty dishes.
                        Bil-lee make dishes go 'ippity!"
                    Before he could make the two jars go  'ippity,
                        The Hopper leaped across the room and seized the basket. He tore off the
                        towel with which he had carefully covered the stolen pottery and disclosed
                        the contents for inspection.
                    "'Scuse me, gents; no crowdin'," he warned as the connoisseurs sprang toward
                        him. He placed the porcelains carefully on the floor under the Christmas
                        tree. "Now ye kin listen t' me, gents. I reckon I 'm goin' t' have somethin'
                        t' say about this here crockery. I stole 'em I stole 'em fer th' lady there,
                        she thinkin' ef ye did n't have 'em no more ye'd stop rowin' about 'em. Ye
                        kin call th' bulls an' turn me over ef ye likes; but I ain't goin' t' have
                        ye fussin' an' causin' th' lady trouble no [more. I ain't goin' to stand fer
                        ut!"
                    "Robber!" shouted Talbot. "You entered  my
                        house at the instance of this man; it was you "
                    "I never saw the gent before," declared The Hopper hotly. "I ain't never had
                        nothin' to do with neither o' ye."
                    "He's telling the truth!" protested Muriel, laughing hysterically. "I did it
                        I got him to take them!"
                    The two collectors were not interested in explanations; they were hungrily
                        eyeing their property. Wilton attempted to pass The Hopper and reach the
                        Christmas tree under whose protecting boughs the two vases were looking
                        their loveliest.
                    "Stand back," commanded The Hopper, "an' stop callin' names! I guess of I'm
                        yanked fer this I ain't th' only one that's goin' t' do time fer house
                        breakin'."
                    This statement, made with considerable vigor, had a sobering effect upon  Wilton, but Talbot began dancing round the
                        tree looking for a chance to pounce upon the porcelains.
                    "Ef ye don't set down the whole caboodle o' ye I'll smash 'em I'll smash 'em
                        both! I'll bust 'em sure as shootin' !" shouted The Hopper.
                    They cowered before him; Muriel wept softly; Billie played with his chickies,
                        disdainful of the world's woe. The Hopper, holding the two angry men at bay,
                        was enjoying his command of the situation.
                    "You gents ain't got no business to be fussin' an' causin' yer childern
                        trouble. An' ye ain't goin' to have these pretty jugs to fuss about no more.
                        I'm goin' t' give 'em away; I'm goin' to make a Chris'mas present of 'em to
                        Shaver. They're goin' to be little Shaver's right here, all orderly an'
                        peace'ble, or I'll  tromp on 'em! Looky here,
                        Shaver, wot Santy Claus brought ye!"
                    "Nice dood Sant' Claus!" cried Billie, diving under the davenport in quest of
                        the wandering chicks.
                    Silence held the grown-ups. The Hopper stood patiently by the Christmas tree,
                        awaiting the result of his diplomacy.
                    Then suddenly Wilton laughed a loud laugh expressive of relief. He turned to
                        Talbot and put out his hand.
                    "It looks as though Muriel and her friend here had cornered us! The idea of
                        pooling our trophies and giving them as a Christmas present to Billie
                        appeals to me strongly. And, besides we've got to prepare somebody to love
                        these things after we're gone. We can work together and train Billie to be
                        the greatest collector in America!"
                    
                    "Please, father," urged Roger as Talbot frowned and shook his head
                        impatiently.
                    Billie, struck with the happy thought of hanging one of his chickies on the
                        Christmas tree, caused them all to laugh at this moment. It was difficult to
                        refuse to be generous on Christmas morning in the presence of the happy
                        child!
                    "Well," said Talbot, a reluctant smile crossing his face, "I guess it's all
                        in the family anyway."
                    The Hopper, feeling that his work as the Reversible Santa Claus was finished.
                        was rapidly retreating through the dining-room when Muriel and Roger ran
                        after him.
                    "We're going to take you home," cried Muriel, beaming.
                    "Yer car's at the back gate, all right-side-up;"  said the Hopper, "but I kin go on the trolley."
                    "Indeed you won't! Roger will take you home. Oh, don't be alarmed ! My
                        husband knows everything about our conspiracy. And we want you to come back
                        this afternoon. You know I owe you an apology for thinking for thinking you
                        were you were a "
                    "They's things wot is an' things wot ain't, miss. Circumstantial evidence
                        sends lots o' men to th' chair. Ut's a heap more happy like," The Hopper
                        continued in his best philosophical vein, "t' play th' white card, helpin'
                        widders an' orfants an' settlin' fusses. When ye ast me t' steal them jugs I
                        had n't th' heart t' refuse ye, miss. I wuz scared to tell ye I had yer baby
                        an' ye seemed so sort o' trustin' like. An' ut bein' Chris'mus an' all."
                    
                    When he steadfastly refused to promise to return, Muriel announced that they
                        would visit The Hopper late in the afternoon and bring Billie along to
                        express their thanks more formally.
                    "I 'll be glad to see ye," replied the Hopper, though a little doubtfully and
                        shamefacedly. "But ye must n't git me into no more house-breakin' scrapes,"
                        he added with a grin. "It's mighty dangerous, miss, fer amachures, like me
                        an' yer pa!"
                    
                
                
                
                    X
                    
                    
                    X
                    MARY was not wholly pleased at the prospect of visitors,
                        but she fell to work with Humpy to put the house in order. At five o'clock
                        not one, but three automobiles drove into the yard, filling Humpy with alarm
                        lest at last The Hopper's sins had overtaken him and they were all about to
                        be hauled away to spend the rest of their lives in prison. It was not the
                        police, but the young Talbots, with Billie and his grandfathers, on their
                        way to a family celebration at the house of an aunt of Muriel's.
                    
                    The grandfathers were restored to perfect amity, and were deeply curious now
                        about The Hopper, whom the peace-loving Muriel had cajoled into robbing
                        their houses.
                    "And you're only an honest chicken farmer, after all!" exclaimed Talbot,
                        senior, when they were all sitting in a semicircle about the fireplace in
                        Mary's parlor. "I hoped you were really a burglar; I always wanted to know a
                        burglar."
                    Humpy had chopped down a small fir that had adorned the front yard and had
                        set it up as a Christmas treean attention that: was not lost upon Billie.
                        The Hopper had brought some mechanical toys from town and Humpy essayed the
                        agreeable task of teaching the youngster how to operate them. Mary produced
                        coffee and pound cake for the guests; The Hopper  assumed the rle of lord of the manor with a benevolent air
                        that was intended as much to impress Mary and Humpy as the guests.
                    "Of course," said Mr. Wilton, whose appearance was the least bit comical by
                        reason of his bandaged head,"of course it was very foolish for a man of your
                        sterling character to allow a young woman like my daughter to bully you into
                        robbing houses for her. Why, when Roger fired at you as you were jumping out
                        of the window, he did n't miss you more than a foot! It would have been
                        ghastly for all of us if he had killed you!"
                    "Well, o' course it all begun from my goin' into th' little house lookin' fer
                        Shaver's folks," replied the Hopper.
                    "But you have n't told us how you came to find our house," said Roger,
                        suggesting  a perfectly natural line of
                        inquiries that caused Humpy to become deeply preoccupied with a pump he was
                        operating in a basin of water for Billie's benefit.
                    "Well, ut jes' looked like a house that Shaver would belong to, cute an'
                        comfortable like," said The Hopper; "I jes' suspicioned it wuz th' place as
                        I wuz passin' along."
                    "I don't think we'd better begin trying to establish alibis," remarked
                        Muriel, very gently, "for we might get into terrible scrapes. Why, if Mr.
                        Stevens had n't been so splendid about everything and was
                        n't just the kindest man in the world, he could make it very ugly for me."
                    ">I shudder to think of what he might do to me," said Wilton, glancing
                        guardedly at his neighbor.
                    "The main thing," said Talbot,  "the main thing
                        is that Mr. Stevens has done for us all what nobody else could ever have
                        done. He's made us see how foolish it is to quarrel about mere baubles. He's
                        settled all our troubles for us, and for my part I'll say his solution is
                        entirely satisfactory."
                    "Quite right," ejaculated Wilton. "If I ever have any delicate business
                        negotiations that are beyond my powers I 'm going to engage Mr. Stevens to
                        handle them."
                    "My business's hens an' eggs," said The Hopper modestly; "an' we're doin'
                        purty well."
                    When they rose to go (a move that evoked strident protests from Billie, who
                        was enjoying himself hugely with Humpy) they were all in the jolliest humor.
                    "We must be neighborly," said Muriel,  shaking
                        hands with Mary, who was at the point of tears so great was her emotion at
                        the success of The Hopper's party. "And we're going to buy all our chickens
                        and eggs from you. We never have any luck raising our own."
                    Whereupon The Hopper imperturbably pressed upon each of the visitors a neat
                        card stating his name (his latest and let us hope his last!) with the proper
                        rural route designation of Happy Hill Farm.
                    The Hopper carried Billie out to his Grandfather Wilton's car, while Humpy
                        walked beside him bearing the gifts from the Happy Hill Farm Christmas tree.
                        From the door Mary watched them depart amid a chorus of merry Christmases,
                        out of which Billie's little pipe rang cheerily.
                    When The Hopper and Humpy returned  to the
                        house, they abandoned the parlor for the greater coziness of the kitchen and
                        there took account of the events of the momentous twenty-four hours.
                    "Them's what I call nice folks," said Humpy. "They jes' put us on an' wore us
                        like we wuz a pair o' ole slippers."
                    "They wuz n't uppishnot to speak of," Mary agreed. "I guess that girl's got
                        more gumption than any of 'em. She's got 'em straightened up now and I guess
                        she'll take care they don't cut up no more monkey-shines about that Chinese
                        stuff. Her husban' seemed sort o' gentle like."
                    "Artists is that way," volunteered The Hopper, as though from deep experience
                        of art and life. "I jes' been thinkin' that knowin' folks like that an'
                        findin' 'em  humin, makin' mistakes like th'
                        rest of us, kind o' makes ut seem easier fer us all t' play th' game
                        straight. Ut's goin' to be th' white card fer mejes' chickens an' eggs, an'
                        here's hopin' the bulls don't ever find out we're settled here."
                    Humpy, having gone into the parlor to tend the fire, returned with two
                        envelopes he had found on the mantel. There was a check for a thousand
                        dollars in each, one from Wilton, the other from Talbot, with "Merry
                        Christmas" written across the visiting-cards of those gentlemen. The Hopper
                        permitted Mary and Humpy to examine them and then laid them on the kitchen
                        table, while he deliberated. His meditations were so prolonged that they
                        grew nervous.
                    "I reckon they could spare ut, after all ye done fer 'em, Hop," remarked
                        Humpy.
                    
                    "They's millionaires, an' money ain't nothin' to 'em," said the Hopper.
                    "We can buy a motor-truck," suggested Mary, "to haul our stuff to town; an'
                        mebbe we can build a new shed to keep ut in."
                    The Hopper set the catsup bottle on the checks and rubbed his cheek,
                        squinting at the ceiling in the manner of one who means to be careful of his
                        speech.
                    "They's things wot is an' things wot ain't," he began. "We ain't none o' us
                        ever got nowheres bein' crooked. I been figurin' that I still got about
                        twenty thousan' o' that bunch o' green I pulled out o' that express car,
                        planted in places where 'taint doin' nobody no good. I guess of I do ut
                        careful I kin send ut back to the company, a little at a time, an' they'd
                        never know where ut come from."
                    
                    Mary wept; Humpy stared, his mouth open, his one eye rolling queerly.
                    I guess we kin put a little chunk away every year," The Hopper went on. "We'd
                        be comfortabler doin' ut. We could square up ef we lived long enough, which
                        we don't need t' worry about, that bein' the Lord's business. You an' me's
                        cracked a good many safes, Hump, but we never made no money at ut, takin'
                        out th' time we done."
                    "He's got religion; that's wot he's got!" moaned Humpy, as though this marked
                        the ultimate tragedy of The Hopper's life .
                    "Mebbe ut's religion an' mebbe ut's jes' sense," pursued The Hopper, unshaken
                        by Humpy's charge. "They wuz a chaplin in th' Minnesoty pen as used t' say
                        ef we're all square with our own  selves
                        ut's goin' to be all right with God. I guess I got a good deal o' squarin'
                        t' do, but I'm goin' t' begin ut. An' all these things happenin' along o'
                        Chris'mus, an' little Shaver an' his ma bein' so friendly like, an' her
                        gittin' me t' help straighten out them ole gents, an' doin' all I done an'
                        not gettin' pinched seems more 'n jes' luck; it's providential's wot ut is!"
                    This, uttered in a challenging tone, evoked a sob from Humpy, who announced
                        that he "felt like" he was going to die.
                    "It's th' Chris'mus time, I reckon," said Mary, watching The Hopper deposit
                        the two checks in the clock. "It's the only decent Chris'mus I ever
                    knowed!"
                
                THE END
            
        
        
            
            Colophon
                The Riverside Press CAMBRIDGE. MASSACHUSETTS U.S.A
            
            
        
    
