
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Quill's Window: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2356
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                QUILL'S WINDOW
                
            
            
            
                
                    "What are you doing up here?" Page 68
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    QUILL'S WINDOW
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of
                    "Graustark," "Sherry," "West
                    Wind Drift," "Mr. Bingle," "Nedra,"
                    etc.
                FRONTISPIECE BY C. ALLAN GILBERT
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                    1921
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1921 BY DODD,
                    MEAD AND COMPANY, INC.
                
                PRINTED IN THE U. S. A. BY The Quinn & Boden
                    Company BOOK MANUFACTURERS RAHWAY NEW JERSEY
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I THE FORBIDDEN ROCK
                        1
                        
                    II THE STORY THE OLD MAN TOLD
                        13
                        
                    III COURTNEY THANE
                        38
                        
                    IV DOWD'S TAVERN
                        50
                        
                    V TRESPASS
                        63
                        
                    VI CHARLIE WEBSTER ENTERTAINS
                        72
                        
                    VII COURTNEY APPEARS IN PUBLIC
                        92
                        
                    VIII ALIX THE THIRD
                        104
                        
                    IX A MID-OCTOBER DAY
                        114
                        
                    X THE CHIMNEY CORNER
                        128
                        
                    XI THANE VISITS TWO HOUSES
                        142
                        
                    XII WORDS AND LETTERS
                        161
                        
                    XIII THE OLD INDIAN TRAIL
                        180
                        
                    XIV SUSPICION
                        192
                        
                    XV THE FACE AT THE WINDOW
                        205
                        
                    XVI ROSABEL
                        220
                        
                    XVII SHADOWS
                        228
                        
                    XVIII MR. GILFILLAN IS PUZZLED
                        241
                        
                    XIX BRINGING UP THE PAST
                        255
                        
                    XX THE DISAPPEARANCE OF ROSABEL VICK
                        267
                        
                    XXI OUT OF THE NIGHT
                        285
                        
                    XXII THE THROWER OF STONES
                        301
                        
                    XXIII A MESSAGE AND ITS ANSWER
                        316
                        
                    XXIV AT QUILL'S WINDOW
                        329
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                QUILL'S WINDOW
                
                QUILL'S WINDOW
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE FORBIDDEN ROCK
                    A YOUNG man and an old one sat in the shade of the willows beside the wide,
                        still river. The glare of a hot August sun failed to penetrate the shelter
                        in which they idled; out upon the slowgliding river it beat relentlessly,
                        creating a pale, thin vapour that clung close to the shimmering surface and
                        dazzled the eye with an ever-shifting glaze. The air was lifeless, sultry,
                        stifling; not a leaf, not a twig in the tall, drooping willows moved unless
                        stirred by the passage of some vagrant bird.
                    The older man sat on the ground, his back against the trunk of a tree that
                        grew so near to the edge that it seemed on the point of toppling over to
                        shatter the smooth, green mirror below. Some of its sturdy exposed roots
                        reached down from the bank into the water, where they caught and held the
                        drift from upstream,reeds and twigs and matted grass,a dirty, sickly mass
                        that swished lazily on the flank of the slow-moving current.
                    The water here in the shade was deep and clear and limpid, contrasting
                        sharply with the steel-white surface out beyond.
                    The young man occupied a decrepit camp stool, 
                        placed conveniently against the trunk of another tree hard by. A discarded
                        bamboo rod lay beside him on the bank, the hook and line hopelessly tangled
                        in the drift below. He smoked cigarettes.
                    His companion held a well-chewed black cigar in the vise-like corner of his
                        mouth. His hook and line were far out in the placid water, an ordinary cork
                        serving as a "bob" from which his dreary, unwavering gaze
                        seldom shifted.
                    "I guess they're through bitin' for
                        today," he remarked, after a long unbroken silence.
                    "How many have we got?" inquired the other languidly.
                    "Between us we've got twenty-four. That's a
                        fairsized mess. Sunfish don't make much of a showing unless you get
                        a barrel of 'em."
                    "Good eating though," mused the young man.
                    "Fried in butter," supplemented the other. "What
                        time is it?"
                    "Half-past nine."
                    "Well, that's just about what I'd figured.
                        I've been fishin' in this 'hole' for
                        something like forty years, off and on, and I've found out that
                        these here sunfish get through breakfast at exactly eighteen minutes past
                        nine. I always allow about ten minutes' leeway in case one or two
                        of 'em might have been out late the night before or something,but
                        as a general thing they're pretty dog-goned prompt for breakfast.
                        Specially in August. Even a fish is lazy in August. Look at that fish-worm.
                        By gosh, it's boiled! That shows you how hot the
                        water is."
                    He removed the worm from the hook and slowly began to twist the pole in the
                        more or less perfunctory  process of
                        "winding up" the line. The young man looked on
                        disinterestedly.
                    "Ain't you going to untangle that line?" inquired
                        the old man, jerking his thumb.
                    "What's the use? The worm is dead by this time, and God
                        knows I prefer to let him rest in peace. The quickest way to untangle a line
                        is to do it like this."
                    He severed it with his pocket-knife.
                    "A line like that costs twenty-five cents," said the old
                        man, a trace of dismay in his voice.
                    "That's what it cost when it was new," drawled the
                        other. "You forget it's been a second-hand article since
                        eight o'clock this morning,and what's a second-hand
                        fish-line worth?tell me that. How much would you give, in the open market,
                        or at an auction sale, for a second-hand fish-line?"
                    "I guess we'd better be gittin' back to the
                        house," said the other, ignoring the question. "Got to
                        clean these fish if we're expectin' to have 'em
                        for dinner,or lunch, as you fellers call it. I'll bet your
                        grandfather never called it lunch. And as for him callin' supper
                            dinner,why, by crickey, he never got
                        drunk enough for that."
                    "More than that," said the young man calmly, "he
                        never saw a cigarette, or a telephone, or a Ford, or a safety-razor,or a lot
                        of other things that have sprung up since he cashed in his checks. To be
                        sure, he did see a few things I've never seen,such as clay-pipes,
                        canal boats, horse-hair sofas, top-boots and rag-carpets,and he probably saw
                        Abraham Lincoln,but, for all that, I'd rather be where I am today
                        than where he is,and I'm not saying he isn't in heaven,
                        either."
                    The older man's eyes twinkled. "I don't think
                        he's  any nearer heaven than he was
                        forty years ago,and he's been dead just about that long. He
                        wasn't what you'd call a far-seeing man,and
                        you've got to look a long ways ahead if you want to see heaven.
                        Your grandma's in heaven all right,and I'll bet she was
                        the most surprised mortal that ever got inside the pearly gates if she found
                        him there ahead of her. Like as not she would have backed out, thinking
                        she'd got into the wrong place by mistake. And if he is up there, I bet he's making the place an
                        everlastin' hell for her. Yep, your grandpa was about as mean as
                        they make 'em. As you say, he didn't know anything about
                        cigarettes, but he made up for it by runnin' after women and fast
                        horses,or maybe it was hosses and fast women,and cheatin' the eye
                        teeth out of everybody he had any dealings with."
                    "I don't understand how he happened to die young, if all
                        these things were true about him," said the other, lighting a fresh
                        cigarette and drawing in a deep, full breath of the pungent smoke. The old
                        man waited a few seconds for the smoke to be expelled, and then, as it came
                        out in a far-reaching volume, carrying far on the still air, his face
                        betrayed not only relief but wonder.
                    "You don't actually swaller it, do you?" he
                        inquired.
                    "Certainly not. I inhale, that's all. Any one can do
                        it."
                    "I'd choke to death," said the old man, shifting
                        his cigar hastily from one side of his mouth to the other, and taking a
                        fresh grip on it with his teeth,as if fearing the consequences of a
                        momentary lapse of control.
                    
                    "You've been chewing that cigar for nearly two
                        hours," observed the young man. "I call that a filthy
                        habit."
                    "I guess you're right," agreed the other, amiably.
                        "The best you can say for it is that it's a man's
                        job, and not a woman's," he added, with all the scorn that
                        the cigar smoker has for the man who affects nothing but cigarettes.
                    "You can't make me sore by talking like that,"
                        said his companion, stretching himself lazily. "Approximately ten
                        million men smoked cigarettes over in France for four years and more, and I
                        submit that they had what you might call a man's job on their
                        hands."
                    "How many of them things do you smoke in a day?"
                    "It depends entirely on how early I get up in the morning,and how
                        late I stay up at night. Good Lord, it's getting hotter every
                        minute. For two cents, I'd strip and jump in there for a game of
                        hide and seek with the fish. By the way, I don't suppose there are
                        any mermaids in these parts, are there?"
                    "You stay out of that water," commanded the old man.
                        "You ain't strong enough yet to be takin' any
                        such chances. You're here to get well, and you got to be mighty
                        all-fired careful. The bed of that river is full of cold springs,and
                        it's pretty deep along this stretch. Weak as you are,and as hot as
                        you are,you'd get cramps in less'n a minute."
                    "I happen to be a good swimmer."
                    "So was Bart Edgecomb,best swimmer I ever saw. He could swim back
                        an' forth across this river half a dozen times,and do you know what
                        happened to him last September? He drowned in three foot of water up above
                        the bend, that's what he did. Come on. Let's  be movin'. It'll be
                        hotter'n blazes by eleven o'clock, and you
                        oughtn't to be walkin' in the sun."
                    The young man settled himself a little more comfortably against the tree.
                    "I think I'll stay here in the shade for a while longer.
                        Don't be uneasy. I shan't go popping into the water the
                        minute your back's turned. What was it you said early this morning
                        about sniffing rain in the air?"
                    "Thunderstorms today, sure as my name's Brown. Been
                        threatening rain for nearly a week. Got to come some time, and I figure
                        today's"
                    "Threats are all we get," growled the young man peevishly.
                        "Lord, I never dreamed I could get so sick of white skies and what
                        you call fresh air. You farmers go to bed every night praying for rain, and
                        you get up in the morning still praying, and what's the result?
                        Nothing except a whiter sky than the day before, and a greater shortage of
                        fresh air. Don't talk to me about country air and country sunshine
                        and country quiet. My God, it never was so hot and stifling as this in New
                        York, and as for peace and quiet,why, those rotten birds in the trees around
                        the house make more noise than the elevated trains at the rush hour, and the
                        rotten roosters begin crowing just about the time I'm going to
                        sleep, and the dogs bark, and the cows,the cows do whatever cows do to make
                        a noise,and then the crows begin to yawp. And all night long the katydids
                        keep up their beastly racket, and the frogs in the pond back of the barns,my
                        God, man, the city is as silent as the grave compared to what you get in the
                        country."
                    "I manage to sleep through it all," said the old man  drily. "The frogs and katydids
                        don't keep me awake."
                    "Yes, and that reminds me of another noise that makes the night
                        hideous. It's the way you people sleep. At nine o'clock
                        sharp, every night, the whole house begins to snore, andSay, I've
                        seen service in France, I've slept in barracks with scores of tired
                        soldiers, I've walked through camps where thousands of able-bodied
                        men were snoring their heads off,but never have I heard anything so
                        terrifying as the racket that lasts from nine to five in the land of my
                        fore-fathers. Gad, it sometimes seems to me you're all trying to
                        make my forefathers turn over in their graves up there on the
                        hill."
                    "You're kind of peevish today, ain't
                        you?" inquired the other, grinning. "You'll get
                        used to the way we snore before long, and you'll kind of enjoy it.
                        I'd be scared to death if I got awake in the night and
                        didn't hear everybody in the house snoring. It's kind of
                        restful to know that everybody's asleep,and not dead. If they
                        wasn't snoring, I'd certainly think they was
                        dead."
                    The young man smiled. "I'll say this much for you
                        farmers,you're a good-natured bunch. I ought to be ashamed of
                        myself for grousing. I suppose it's because I've been
                        sick. You're all so kind and thoughtful,and so darned genuine,even when you're asleep,that I feel like a dog
                        for finding fault. By the way, you said something awhile ago about that big
                        black cliff over yonder having a history. I've been looking at that
                        cliff or hill or rock, or whatever it is, and it doesn't look real.
                        It doesn't look as though God had made it. It's more like
                        the work of man. So far as I can see, there isn't another hill on
                        either bank of the  river, and yet that thing
                        over there must be three or four hundred feet high, sticking up like a
                        gigantic wart on the face of the earth. What is it? Solid rock?"
                    "Sort like slate rock, I guess. There's a stretch of about
                        a mile on both sides of the river along here that's solid rock.
                        This bank we're standin' on is rock, covered with six or
                        eight foot of earth. You're right about that big rock over there
                        being a queer thing. There's been college professors and all sorts
                        of scientific men here, off and on, to examine it and to try to account for
                        its being there. But, thunderation, if it's been there for a
                        million years as they say, what's the sense of explaining
                        it?"
                    "There's something positively forbidding about it. Gives
                        you the willies. How did it come by the name you called it a while
                        ago?"
                    "Quill's Window? Goes back to the days of the Indians. Long
                        before the time of Tecumseh or The Prophet. They used to range up and down
                        this river more than a hundred years ago. The old trail is over there on the
                        other bank as plain as day, covered with grass but beaten down till
                        it's like a macadam road. I suppose the Indians followed that trail
                        for hundreds of years. There's still traces of their camps over
                        there on that side, and a little ways down the river is a place where they
                        had a regular village. Over here on this side, quite a little ways farther
                        down, is the remains of an old earthwork fort used by the French long before
                        the Revolution, and afterwards by American soldiers about the time of the
                        War of 1812. We'll go and look at it some day if you like. Most
                        people are interested in it, but for why, I can't see.
                    "There ain't nothing to see but some busted up  breastworks and lunettes, covered with weeds,
                        with here and there a sort of opening where they must have had a cannon
                        sticking out to scare the squaws and papooses. You was askin' about
                        the name of that rock. Well, it originally had an Indian name, which I
                        always forget because it's the easiest way to keep from pronouncing
                        it. Then the French came along and sort of Frenchified the name,which made
                        it worse, far as I'm concerned. I'm not much on French.
                        About three-quarters of the way up the rock, facing the river, is a sort of
                        cave. You can't see the opening from here, 'cause it faces
                        north, looking up the river from the bend. There are a lot of little caves
                        and cracks in the rock, but none of 'em amounts to anything except
                        this one. It runs back something like twenty foot in the rock and is about
                        as high as a man's head.
                    "Shortly after General Harrison licked The Prophet and his warriors
                        up on the Tippecanoe, a man named Quill,an Irishman from down the river
                        some'eres towards Vincennes,all this is hearsay so far as
                        I'm concerned, mind you,but as I was saying, this man Quill begin
                        to make his home up in that cave. He was what you might call a hermit. There
                        were no white people in these parts except a few scattered trappers and some
                        people living in a settlement twenty-odd miles south of here. As the story
                        goes, this man Quill lived up there in that cave for about four or five
                        years, hunting and trapping all around the country. White people begin to
                        get purty thick in these parts soon after that, Indiana having been made a
                        state. There was a lot of coming and going up and down the river. A feller
                        named Digby started a kind of settlement or trading-post further up, and
                        clearings were made all  around,farms and all
                        that, you see. Your great grandfather was one of the first men to settle in
                        this section. Coming down the river by night you could see the light up
                        there in Quill's Cave. You could see it for miles, they say. People
                        begin to speak of it as the light in Quill's window,and
                        that's how the name happened. I'm over seventy, and
                        I've never heard that hill called anything but Quill's
                        Window."
                    "What happened to Quill?"
                    "Well, that's something nobody seems to be quite certain
                        about. Whether he hung himself or somebody else done the job for him, nobody
                        knows. According to the story that was told when I was a boy, it seems he
                        killed somebody down the river and come up here to hide. The relations of
                        the man he killed never stopped hunting for him. A good many people were of
                        the opinion they finally tracked him to that cave. In any case, his body was
                        found hanging by the neck up there one day, on a sort of ridge-pole he had
                        put in. This was after people had missed seeing the light in
                        Quill's Window for quite a spell. There are some people who still
                        say the cave is ha'nted. When I was a young boy, shortly before the
                        Civil War, a couple of horse thieves were chased up to that cave andahem!I
                        reckon your grandfather, if he was alive, could tell you all about what
                        became of 'em and who was in the party that stood 'em up
                        against the back wall of the cave and shot 'em. There's
                        another story that goes back even farther than the horse thieves. The
                        skeleton of a woman was found up there, with the skull split wide open. That
                        was back in 1830 or 1840. So, you see, when all of them ghosts get together
                        and begin scrapping over property rights, it's enough to scare  the gizzard out of 'most anybody that
                        happens to be in the neighbourhood. But I guess old man Quill was the first
                        white man to shuffle off, so it's generally understood that his
                        ghost rules the roost. Come on now, let's be moving. It's
                        gettin' hotter every minute, and you oughtn't to be out in
                        all this heat. For the Lord's sake, you ain't going to
                        light another one of them things, are you?"
                    "Sure. It's the only vice I'm capable of enjoying
                        at present. Being gassed and shell-shocked, and then having the flu and
                        pneumonia and rheumatism,and God knows what else,sort of purifies a chap,
                        you see."
                    "Well, all I got to say isI guess I'd better not say it,
                        after all."
                    "You can't hurt my feelings."
                    "I'm not so sure about that," said the old man
                        gruffly.
                    "How do you get up to that cave?"
                    "You ain't thinking of trying it, are you?"
                        apprehensively.
                    "When I'm a bit huskier, yes."
                    The old man removed his cigar in order to obtain the full effect of a
                        triumphant grin.
                    "Well, in the first place, you can't get up to it.
                        You've got to come down to it. The only way to get to the mouth of
                        that cave is to lower yourself from the top of the rock. And in the second
                        place, you can't get down to it because it
                        ain't allowed. The owner of all the land along that side of the
                        river has got 'no trespass' signs up, and nobody's allowed to climb to the top of that rock.
                        She's all-fired particular about it, too. The top of that rock is
                        sacred to her. Nobody  ever thinks of
                        violatin' it. All around the bottom of the slope back of the hill
                        she's got a white picket fence, and the gate to it is padlocked.
                        You see it's her family buryin'-ground."
                    "Her what?"
                    "Buryin'-ground. Her father and mother are buried right
                        smack on top of that rock."
                    The young man lifted his eyebrows. "Does that mean there are a
                        couple of married ghosts fighting on top of the rock every night, besides
                        the gang down in the"
                    "It ain't a joking matter," broke in the other
                        sharply.
                    "Go on, tell me more. The monstrosity gets more and more interesting
                        every minute."
                    The old man chewed his cigar energetically for a few seconds before
                        responding.
                    "I'll tell you the story tonight after supper,not now. The
                        only thing I want to make clear to you is this. Everybody in this section
                        respects her wishes about keeping off of that rock, and I want to ask you to
                        respect 'em, too. It would be a dirty trick for you to go up there,
                        knowin' it's dead against her wishes."
                    "A dirty trick, eh?" said the young man, fixing his gaze on
                        the blue-black summit of the forbidden rock.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE STORY THE OLD MAN TOLD
                    
                        DAVID WINDOM'S daughter Alix ran away with and married Edward
                            Crown in the spring of 1894.
                        Windom was one of the most prosperous farmers in the county. His lands
                            were wide, his cattle were many, his fields were vast stretches of green
                            and gold; his granaries, his cribs and his mows, filled and emptied each
                            year, brought riches and dignity and power to this man of the soil.
                        Back when the state was young, his forefathers had fared westward from
                            the tide-water reaches of Virginia, coming at length to the rich,
                            unbroken region along the river with the harsh Indian name, and there
                            they built their cabins and huts on lands that had cost them little more
                            than a song and yet were of vast dimensions. They were of English stock.
                            (Another branch of the family, closely related, remains English to this
                            day, its men sitting sometime in Parliament and always in the councils
                            of the nation, far removed in every way from the Windoms in the fertile
                            valley once traversed by the war-like redskins.) But these Windoms of
                            the valley were no longer English. There had been six generations of
                            them, and those of the first two fought under General Washington against
                            the red-coats and the Hessians in the War of '76.
                        David Windom, of the fourth generation, went to  England for a wife, however,a girl he had met on the
                            locally celebrated trip to Europe in the early seventies. For years he
                            was known from one end of the county to the other as "the man
                            who has been across the Atlantic Ocean." The dauntless English
                            bride had come unafraid to a land she had been taught to regard as wild,
                            peopled by savages and overrun by ravenous beasts, and she had found it
                            populated instead by the gentlest sort of men and equally gentle beasts.
                        She did a great deal for David Windom. He was a proud man and ambitious.
                            He saw the wisdom of her teachings and he followed them, not reluctantly
                            but with a fierce desire to refine what God had given him in the shape
                            of raw material: a good brain, a sturdy sense of honour, and above all
                            an imagination that lifted him safely,if not always sanely,above the
                            narrow world in which the farmer of that day spent his entire life. Not
                            that he was uncouth to begin with,far from it. He had been irritatingly
                            fastidious from boy-hood up. His thoughts had wandered afar on frequent
                            journeys, and when they came back to take up the dull occupation they
                            had abandoned temporarily, they were broader than when they went out to
                            gather wool. The strong, well-poised English wife found rich soil in
                            which to work; he grew apace and flourished, and manifold were the
                            innovations that stirred a complacent community into actual unrest. A
                            majority of the farmers and virtually all of the farmers' wives
                            were convinced that Dave Windom was losing his mind, the way he was
                            letting that woman boss him around.
                        The women did not like her. She was not one of them and never could be
                            one of them. Her "hired girls" became
                            "servants" the day she entered the ugly old  farmhouse on the ridge. They were no
                            longer considered members of the family; they were made to feel
                            something they had never felt before in their lives: that they were not
                            their mistress's equals.
                        The "hired girl" of those days was an institution. As a
                            rule, she moved in the same social circle as the lady of the house and
                            it was customary for her to intimately address her mistress by her
                            christian name. She enjoyed the right to engage in all conversations;
                            she was, in short, "as good as anybody." The new Mrs.
                            Windom was not long in transporting the general housework
                            "girl" into a totally unexampled state of
                            astonishment. This "girl,"aged forty-five and a
                            prominent member of the Methodist Church,announced to everybody in the
                            community except to Mrs. Windom herself that she was going to leave. She
                            did not leave. The calm serenity of the new mistress prevailed, even
                            over the time-honoured independence in which the
                            "girl" and her kind unconsciously gloried. Respect
                            succeeded injury, and before the bride had been in the Windom house a
                            month, Maria Bliss was telling the other "hired girls"
                            of the neighbourhood that she wouldn't trade places with them
                            for anything in the world.
                        Greatly to the consternation and disgust of other householders, a
                            "second girl" was added to the Windom menage,a
                            parlour-maid she was called. This was too much. It was rank injustice.
                            General housework girls began to complain of having too much work to
                            do,getting up at five in the morning, cooking for half a dozen
                            "hands," doing all the washing and ironing, milking,
                            sweeping and so on, and not getting to bed till nine or ten
                            o'clock at night,to say nothing of  family dinners on Sunday and the preacher in every now and then, and
                            all that. Moreover, Mrs. Windom herself never looked bedraggled. She
                            took care of her hair, wore good clothes, went to the dentist regularly
                            (whether she had a toothache or not), had meals served in what Maria
                            Bliss loftily described as "courses," and saw to it
                            that David Windom shaved once a day, dressed better than his neighbours,
                            kept his "surrey" and "side-bar
                            buggy" washed, his harness oiled and polished, and wore real
                            riding-boots.
                        The barnyard took on an orderly appearance, the stables were repaired,
                            the picket fences gleamed white in the sun, the roof of the house was
                            painted red, the sides a shimmering white, and there were green window
                            shutters and green window boxes filled with geraniums. The front yard
                            was kept mowed, and there were great flower-beds encircled by snow-white
                            boulders; a hammock was swung in the shade of two great oaks, andworst
                            of all! a tennis-court was laid out alongside the house.
                        Tennis! That was a game played only by "dudes"!
                            Passers-by looked with scorn upon young David Windom and his
                            flaxen-haired wife as they played at the silly game before supper every
                            evening. And they went frequently to the "opera house"
                            at the county seat, ten miles up the river; they did not wait for summer
                            to come with its circus, as all the other farmers were content to do;
                            whenever there was a good "show" at the theatre in
                            town they sent up for reserved seats and drove in for supper at the
                            principal hotel. Altogether, young Mrs. Windom was simply
                            "raising Cain" with the conventions.
                        Strange to say, David did not "go to smash." To  the intense chagrin of the wiseacres he
                            prospered despite an unprecedented disregard for the teachings of his
                            father and his grandfather before him. The wolf stayed a long way off
                            from his door, the prophetic mortgage failed to lay its blight upon his
                            lands, his crops were bountiful, his acreage spread as the years went
                            by,and so his uncles, his cousins and his aunts were never so happy as
                            when wishing for the good old days when his father was alive and running
                            the farm as it should be run! If David had married some good, sensible,
                            thrifty, hard-working farmer's daughter,Well, it might not have
                            meant an improvement in the crops but it certainly would have spared him
                            the expense of a tennis court, and theatre-going, and absolutely
                            unnecessary trips to Chicago or Indianapolis whenever she took it into her head to go. Besides, it wasn't
                            natural that they should deliberately put off having children. It
                            wasn't what God and the country expected. After a year had
                            passed and there were no symptoms of approaching motherhood, certain
                            narrow-minded relatives began to blame Great Britain for the outrage and
                            talked a great deal about a wornout, deteriorating race.
                        Then, after two years, when a girl baby was born to David and his wife,
                            they couldn't, for the life of them, understand how it came to
                            pass that it wasn't a boy. There had been nothing but boys in
                            the Windom family for years and years. It appeared to be a Windom
                            custom. And here was this fair-haired outsider from across the sea
                            breaking in with a girl! They could not believe it possible. David,a
                            great, strong, perfect specimen of a Windom,the father of a girl! Why,
                            they emphasized, he was over six feet tall, strong  as an ox, broad-shouldered,as fine a figure as you would
                            see in a lifetime. There was something wrong,radically wrong.
                        The district suffered another shock when a nurse maid was added to
                            David's household,a girl from the city who had nothing whatever
                            to do except to take care of the baby while the unnatural mother
                            tinkered with the flower-beds, took long walks about the farm, rode
                            horseback, and played tennis with David and a silly crowd of young
                            people who had fallen into evil ways.
                        She died when her daughter was ten years old. Those who had misunderstood
                            her and criticized her in the beginning, mourned her deeply, sincerely,
                            earnestly in the end, for she had triumphed over prejudice,
                            narrowmindedness, and a certain form of malice. The whole district was
                            the better for her once hateful innovations, and there was no one left
                            who scoffed at David Windom for the choice he had made of a wife.
                        Her death wrought a remarkable, enduring change in Windom. He became a
                            silent, brooding man who rarely smiled and whose heart lay up in the
                            little graveyard on the ridge. The gay, larksome light fled from his
                            eyes, his face grew stern and sometimes forbidding. She had taken with
                            her the one great thing she had brought into his life: ineffable
                            buoyancy. He no longer played, for there was no one with whom he would
                            play; he no longer sang, for the music had gone out of his soul; he no
                            longer whistled the merry tunes, for his lips were stiff and unyielding.
                            Only when he looked upon his little daughter did the soft light of love
                            well up into his eyes and the rigid mouth grow tender.
                        She was like her mother. She was joyous, brave and  fair to look upon. She had the same heart of sunshine, the
                            same heart of iron, and the blue in her eyes was like the blue of the
                            darkening skies. She adored the grim, silent man who was her father, and
                            she was the breath of life to him.
                        And then, when she was nineteen, she broke the heart of David Windom. For
                            two years she had been a student in the University situated but half a
                            score of miles from the place where she was born, a co-educational
                            institution of considerable size and importance. Windom did not believe
                            in women's colleges. He believed in the free school with its
                            broadening influence, its commingling of the sexes in the search for
                            learning, and in the divine right of woman to develop her mind through
                            the channels that lead ultimately and inevitably to superiority of man.
                            He believed that the girl trained and educated in schools devoted
                            exclusively to the finer sex fails to achieve understanding as well as
                            education. The only way to give a girl a practical education,and he
                            believed that every woman should have one,was to start her off even with
                            the boy who was training to become her master in all respects.
                        During her second year at the University she met Edward Crown, a senior.
                            He was the son of a blacksmith in the city, and he was working his way
                            through college with small assistance from his parent, who held to the
                            conviction that a man was far better off if he developed his muscles by
                            hard work and allowed the brain to take care of itself. Young Crown was
                            a good-looking fellow of twenty-three, clean-minded, ambitious, dogged
                            in work and dogged in play. He had "made" the football
                            team in his sophomore year. Customary snobbishness had kept him out of
                            the fraternities and  college societies. He
                            may have been a good fellow, a fine student, and a cracking end on the
                            eleven, and all that, but he was not acceptable material for any one of
                            the half dozen fraternities.
                        When he left college with his hard-earned degree it was to accept a
                            position with a big engineering company, a job which called him out to
                            the far Northwest. Alix Windom was his promised wife. They were deeply,
                            madly in love with each other. Separation seemed unendurable. She was
                            willing to go into the wilderness with him, willing to endure the
                            hardships and the discomforts of life in a construction camp up in the
                            mountains of Montana. She would share his poverty and his trials as she
                            would later share his triumphs. But when they went to David Windom with
                            their beautiful dream, the world fell about their ears.
                        David Windom, recovering from the shock of surprise, ordered Edward from
                            the house. He would sooner see his child dead than the wife of Nick
                            Crown's son,Nick Crown, a drunken rascal who had been known to
                            beat his wife,Nick Crown who was not even fit to lick the feet of the
                            horses he shod!
                        One dark, rainy night in late June, Alix stole out of the old farmhouse
                            on the ridge and met her lover at the abandoned tollgate half a mile up
                            the road. He waited there with a buggy and a fast team of horses. Out of
                            a ramshackle cupboard built in the wall of the toll-house, they withdrew
                            the bundles surreptitiously placed there by Alix in anticipation of this
                            great and daring event, and made off toward the city at a break-neck,
                            reckless speed. They were married before midnight, and the next day saw
                            them on their way to the Far West. But not before Alix had despatched a
                            messenger  to her father, telling him of
                            her act and asking his forgiveness for the sake of the love she bore
                            him. The same courier carried back to the city a brief response from
                            David Windom. In a shaken, sprawling hand he informed her that if she
                            ever decided to return to her home alone, he would
                            receive her and forgive her for the sake of the love he bore her, but if she came with the coward who stole her
                            away from him, he would kill him before her eyes.
                    
                    
                        II
                        The summer and fall and part of the winter passed, and in early March
                            Alix came home.
                        David Windom, then a man of fifty, gaunt and grey and powerful, seldom
                            had left the farm in all these months. He rode about his far-spread
                            estate, grim and silent, his eyes clouded, his voice almost metallic,
                            his manner cold and repellent. His tenants, his labourers, his
                            neighbours, fearing him, rarely broke in upon his reserve. Only his
                            animals loved him and were glad to see him,his dogs, his horses, even
                            his cattle. He loved them, for they were staunch and faithful. Never had
                            he uttered his daughter's name in all these months, nor was
                            there a soul in the community possessed of the hardihood to inquire
                            about her or to sympathize with him.
                        It was a fierce, cruel night in March that saw the return of Alix. A
                            fine, biting snow blew across the wide, open farmlands; the beasts of
                            the field were snugly under cover; no man stirred abroad unless driven
                            by necessity; the cold, wind-swept roads were deserted. So no one
                            witnessed the return of Alix Crown  and her
                            husband. They came out of the bleak, unfriendly night and knocked at
                            David Windom's door. There were lights in his sitting-room
                            windows; through them they could see the logs blazing in the big
                            fireplace, beside which sat the lonely, brooding figure of
                            Alix's father. It was late,nearly midnight,and the house was
                            still. Old Maria Bliss and the one other servant had been in bed for
                            hours. The farmhands slept in a cottage Windom had erected years before,
                            acting upon his wife's suggestion. It stood some two or three
                            hundred yards from the main house.
                        A dog in the stables barked, first in anger and then with unmistakable
                            joy. David's favourite, a big collie, sprang up from his place
                            on the rug before the fire and looked uneasily toward the door opening
                            onto the hall. Then came a rapping at the front door. The collie growled
                            softly as he moved toward the door. He sniffed the air in the hall and
                            suddenly began to whine joyously, wagging his tail as he bounded back
                            and forth between his master and the door.
                        David Windom knew then that his daughter had come home.
                        He sprang to his feet and took two long strides toward the door.
                            Abruptly, as if suddenly turned to stone, he stopped. For a long time he
                            stood immovable in the middle of the room. The rapping was repeated,
                            louder, heavier than before. He turned slowly, retraced his steps to the
                            fireplace and took from its rack in the corner a great iron poker. His
                            face was ashen grey, his eyes were wide and staring and terrible. Then
                            he strode toward the door, absolutely unconscious of the glad, prancing
                            dog at his side.
                        In the poor shelter of the little porch stood Alix, bent  and shivering, and, behind her, Edward
                            Crown, at whose feet rested two huge "telescope
                            satchels." The light from within fell dimly upon the white,
                            upturned face of the girl. She held out her hands to the man who towered
                            above her on the doorstep.
                        "Daddy! Daddy!" she cried brokenly. "Oh, my
                            daddy! Let me come inlet me,II am freezing."
                        But David Windom was peering over her head at the indistinct face of the
                            man beyond. He wanted to be sure. Lifting his powerful arm, he struck.
                        Edward Crown, stiff and numb with cold and weak from an illness of some
                            duration, did not raise an arm to ward off the blow, nor was he even
                            prepared to dodge. The iron rod crashed down upon his head. His legs
                            crumpled up; he dropped in a heap at the top of the steps and rolled
                            heavily to the bottom, sprawling out on the snow-covered brick walk.
                        The long night wore on. Windom had carried his daughter into the
                            sitting-room, where he placed her on a lounge drawn up before the fire.
                            She had fainted. After an hour he left her and went out into the night.
                            The body of Edward Crown was lying where it had fallen. It was covered
                            by a thin blanket of snow. For a long time he stood gazing down upon the
                            lifeless shape. The snow cut his face, the wind threshed about his
                            coatless figure, but he heeded them not. He was muttering to himself. At
                            last he turned to re-enter the house. His daughter was standing in the
                            open doorway.
                        "Isis that Edward down there?" she asked, in weak,
                            lifeless tones. She seemed dull, witless, utterly without realization.
                        "Go back in the house," he whispered, as he drew  back from her in a sort of horror,horror
                            that had not struck him in the presence of the dead.
                        "Is that Edward?" she insisted, her voice rising to a
                            queer, monotonous wail.
                        "I told you to stay in the house," he said. "I
                            told you I would look after him, didn't I? Go back,
                            Alix,that's a good girl. Youryour daddy will Oh, my God!
                            Don't look at me like that!"
                        "Is he dead?" she whispered, still standing very
                            straight in the middle of the doorway. She was not looking at the inert
                            thing on the walk below, but into her father's eyes. He did
                            not, could not answer. He seemed frozen stiff. She went on in the same
                            dull, whispered monotone. "I begged him to let me come alone. I
                            begged him to let me see you first. But he would come. He brought me all
                            the way from the West and hehe was not afraid of you. You have done what
                            you said you would do. You did not give him a chance. And always,always
                            I have loved you so. You will never know how I longed to come back and
                            have you kiss me, and pet me, and call me those silly names you
                            used"
                        "What's done, is done," he broke in heavily.
                            "He is dead. It had to be. I was insane,mad with all these
                            months of hatred. It is done. Come,there is nothing you can do. Come
                            back into the house. I will carry him inand wake somebody. Tomorrow they
                            will come and take me away. They will hang me. I am ready. Let them
                            come. You must not stand there in the cold, my child."
                        She toppled forward into his arms, and he lifted her as if she were a
                            babe and carried her into the house. The collie was whining in the
                            corner. Windom sat  down in the big
                            armchair before the fire, still holding the girl in his arms. She was
                            moaning weakly. Suddenly a great, overwhelming fear seized him,the fear
                            of being hanged!
                        A long time afterward,it was after two,he arose from his knees beside the
                            lounge and prepared to go out into the night once more. Alix had
                            promised not to send her father to the gallows. She was almost in a
                            stupor after the complete physical and mental collapse, but she knew
                            what she was doing, she realized what she was promising in return for
                            the blow that had robbed her of the man she loved.
                        No one will ever know just what took place in that darkened sitting-room,
                            for the story as afterwards related was significantly lacking in
                            details. The light had been extinguished and the doors silently closed
                            by the slayer. The stiffening body of Edward Crown out in the snow was
                            not more silent than the interior of the old farmhouse, apart from the
                            room in which David Windom pleaded with his stricken daughter.
                        And all the while he was begging her to save him from the consequences of
                            his crime, his brain was searching for the means to dispose of the body
                            of Edward Crown and to provide an explanation for the return of Alix
                            without her husband.
                        Circumstances favoured him in a surprising manner. Young Crown and his
                            wife had travelled down from Chicago in a day coach, and they had left
                            the train at a small way station some five miles west of the Windom
                            farm. Crown was penniless. He did not possess the means to engage a
                            vehicle to transport them from the city to the farm, nor the money to
                            secure lodging for the night in the cheapest hotel. Alix's
                            pride stood in  the way of an appeal to her
                            husband's father or to any one of his friends for assistance.
                            It was she who insisted that they leave the train at Hawkins station and
                            walk to Windom's house. They had encountered no one who knew
                            them, either on the train or at the station; while on their cold,
                            tortuous journey along the dark highway they did not meet a solitary
                            human being.
                        No one, therefore, was aware of their return.
                        Edward Crown's presence in the neighbourhood was unknown. If
                            David Windom's plan succeeded, the fact that Crown had returned
                            with his wife never would be known. To all inquirers both he and his
                            daughter were to return the flat but evasive answer: "It is
                            something I cannot discuss at present," leaving the world to
                            arrive at the obvious conclusion that Alix's husband had
                            abandoned her. And presently people, from sheer delicacy, would cease to
                            inquire. No one would know that Crown had been ill up in the mountains
                            for weeks, had lost his position, and had spent his last penny in
                            getting his wife back to the house in which she was born,and where her
                            own child was soon to be born.
                        Windom went about the task of secreting his son-in-law's body in
                            a most systematic, careful manner. He first carried the two
                            "telescopes" into the house and hid them in a closet.
                            Then he put on an old overcoat and cap, his riding boots and gloves.
                            Stealing out to the rear of the house, he found a lantern and secured it
                            to his person by means of a strap. A few minutes later he was ready to
                            start off on his ghastly mission. Alix nodded her head dumbly when he
                            commanded her to remain in the sitting-room and to make no sound that
                                 might arouse Maria Bliss. He promised
                            to return in less than an hour.
                        "Your father's life depends on your silence, my child,
                            from this moment on," he whispered in her ear.
                        She started up. "And how about my husband's
                            life?" she moaned. "What of him? Why do you put
                            yourself"
                        "Sh! Your husband is dead. You cannot bring him to life. It is
                            your duty,do your hear?your duty to spare the living. Remember what I
                            said to you awhile ago. Never forget it, my child."
                        "Yes," she muttered. "'Blood is
                            thicker than water.' I remember."
                    
                    
                        III
                        He went out into the night, closing the door softly behind him. The
                            collie was at his heels. He was afraid to go alone. Grimly, resolutely
                            he lifted the body of Edward Crown from the ground and slung it across
                            his shoulder, the head and arms hanging down his back. Desperation added
                            strength to his powerful frame. As if his burden were a sack of meal, he
                            strode swiftly down the walk, through the gate and across the gravel
                            road. The night was as black as ink, yet he went unerringly to the
                            pasture gate a few rods down the road. Unlatching it, he passed through
                            and struck out across the open, wind-swept meadow. The dog slunk along
                            close behind him, growling softly. Snow was still falling, but the gale
                            from the north was sweeping it into drifts, obliterating his tracks
                            almost as soon as they were made.
                        Straight ahead lay the towering, invisible rock, a  quarter of a mile away. He descended the ridge slope, swung
                            tirelessly across the swales and mounds in the little valley, and then
                            bent his back to the climb up the steep incline to Quill's
                            Window. Picking his way through a fringe of trees, he came to the
                            tortuous path that led to the crest of the great rock. Panting, dogged,
                            straining every ounce of his prodigious strength, he struggled upward,
                            afraid to stop for rest, afraid to lower his burden. The sides and the
                            flat summit of the rock were full of treacherous fissures, but he knew
                            them well. He had climbed the sides of Quill's Window scores of
                            times as a boy, to sit at the top and gaze off over the small world
                            below, there to dream of the great world outside, and of love,
                            adventure, travel. Many a night, after the death of his beloved Alix, he
                            had gone up there to mourn alone, to be nearer to the heaven which she
                            had entered, to be closer to her. He knew well of the narrow fissure at
                            the top,six feet deep and the length of a grave! Filled only with the
                            leaves of long dead years!
                        He lowered his burden to the bare surface of the rock. The wind had swept
                            it clean. Under the protecting screen of his overcoat he struck a match
                            and lighted the lantern. Then for the first time he studied closely the
                            grey, still face of the youth he had slain. The skull was crushed. There
                            was frozen blood down the back of the head and neck He started up in
                            sudden consternation. There would be blood-stains where the body had
                            lain so long,tell-tale, convicting stains! He must be swift with the
                            work in hand. Those stains must be wiped out before the break of day.
                        Lowering himself into the opening, he began digging at one end with his
                            hands, scooping back quantities of  wet
                            leaves. There was snow down there in the pit,a foot or more of it. After
                            a few minutes of vigorous clawing, a hole in the side of the fissure was
                            revealed,an aperture large enough for a man to crawl into. He knew where
                            it led to: down into Quill's cave twenty feet below.
                        Some one,perhaps an Indian long before the time of Quill, or it may have
                            been Quill himself,had chiselled hand and toe niches in the sides of
                            this well and had used the strange shaft as means of getting into and
                            out of the cave. Windom's father had closed this shaft when
                            David was a small boy, after the venturesome youngster had gone down
                            into the cave and, unable to climb out again, had been the cause of an
                            all-day search by his distracted parent and every neighbour for miles
                            around. The elder Windom had blocked the bottom of the hole with a huge
                            boulder, shorn from the side of the cave by some remote wrench of
                            nature. Then he had half filled the cavity from the top by casting in
                            all of the loose stones to be found on the crest of the rock, together
                            with a quantity of earth. The work had never been completed. There still
                            remained a hole some ten feet deep.
                        David Windom clambered out, leaving his lantern below. Letting the dead
                            man's body slide into the crevice, he followed, bent on at
                            least partially finishing the job. When he climbed out a second time,
                            Edward Crown was at the bottom of the hole and the wet, foul leaves
                            again hid the opening. Tomorrow night, and the night after, he would
                            come again to close the hole entirely with earth and stones, hiding
                            forever the grewsome thing in Quill's
                            "chimney," as the flue-like passage was called.
                        
                        Extinguishing the lantern, he started down the hill at a reckless,
                            break-neck speed. He had the uncanny feeling that he was being followed,
                            that Edward Crown was dogging his footsteps. Halfway down, he stumbled
                            and fell sprawling. As he started to rise, a sound smote his earsthe
                            sound of footsteps. For many seconds he held his breath, terror
                            clutching his throat. He was being followed! Some one
                            was shuffling down the rock behind him. The collie! He had forgotten the
                            dog. But even as he drew in the deep breath of relief, he felt his blood
                            suddenly freeze in his veins. It was not the dog. Something approached
                            that moaned and whimpered and was not mortal. It passed by him as he
                            crouched to the earth,a shadow blacker than the night itself. Suddenly
                            the truth burst upon him.
                        "My God! Alix!"
                        Half an hour later he staggered into his house, bearing the form of his
                            daughter,tenderly, carefully, not as he had borne the despised dead.
                        She had followed him to the top of Quill's Window, she had
                            witnessed the ghastly interment, and she had whispered a prayer for the
                            boy who was gone.
                        The next day her baby was born and that night she died. Coming out of a
                            stupor just before death claimed her, she said to David Windom:
                        "I am going to Edward. I do not forgive you, father. You must
                            not ask that of me. You say it is my duty to save you from the gallows,a
                            child's duty to her parent. I have promised. I shall keep my
                            promise. It is not in my heart to send you to the gallows. You are my
                            father. You have always loved me. This is my baby,mine and
                            Edward's. She may live,God knows I wish I might have died
                            yesterday  and spared her the accursed
                            breath of life,she may grow up to be a woman, just as I grew up. I do
                            not ask much of you in return for what I have done for you, father. You
                            have killed my Edward. I loved him with all my soul. I do not care to
                            live. But my child must go on living, I suppose. My child and his. She
                            is his daughter. I cannot expect you to love her, but I do expect you to
                            take care of her. You say that blood is thicker than water. You are
                            right. I cannot find it in my heart to betray you. You may tell the
                            world whatever story you like about Edward. He is dead, and I shall soon
                            be dead. You can hurt neither of us, no matter what you do. I ask two
                            things of you. One is that you will be good to my baby as long as you
                            may live, and the other is that you will bury me up there where you put
                            Edward last night. I must lie near him always. Say to people that I have
                            asked you to bury me in that pit at the top of Quill's
                            Window,that it was my whim, if you like. Close it up after you have
                            placed me there and cover it with great rocks, so that Edward and I may
                            never be disturbed. I want no headstone, no epitaph. Just the stones as
                            they were hewn by God."
                        David Windom promised. He was alone in the room with her when she
                        died.
                    
                    
                        IV
                        Twenty years passed. Windom came at last to the end of his days. He had
                            fulfilled his promises to Alix. He had taken good care of her daughter,
                            he had given her everything in his power to give, and he had worshipped
                            her because she was like both of the Alixes  he had loved. She was Alix Crown,Alix the Third, he called her.
                        On the day of his death, Windom confessed the crime of that far off night
                            in March. In the presence of his lawyer, his doctor, his granddaughter
                            and the prosecuting attorney of the county, he revealed the secret he
                            had kept for a score of years. The mystery of Edward Crown's
                            disappearance was cleared up, and for the first time in her young life
                            Alix was shorn of the romantic notion that one day her missing father
                            would appear in the flesh, out of the silences, to claim her as his own.
                            From earliest childhood, her imagination had dealt with all manner of
                            dramatic situations; she had existed in the glamour of uncertainty; she
                            had looked upon herself as a character worthy of a place in some
                            gripping tale of romance. The mound of rocks on the crest of
                            Quill's Window, surrounded by a tall iron paling fence with its
                            padlocked gate, covered only the body of the mother she had never seen.
                            She did not know until this enlightening hour that her father was also
                            there and had been throughout all the years in which fancy played so
                            important a part.
                        Like all the rest of the world, she was given to understand that her
                            father had cruelly abandoned her mother. In her soul she had always
                            cherished the hope that this heartless monster might one day stand
                            before her, pleading and penitent, only to be turned away with the scorn
                            he so richly deserved. She even pictured him as rich and powerful,
                            possessed of everything except the one greet boon which she alone could
                            give him,a daughter's love. And she would point to the top of
                            Quill's Window and tell him that he must first  look there for forgiveness,under the rocks
                            where his broken-hearted victim slept.
                        The truth stunned her. She was a long time in realizing that her
                            grandfather, whom she both loved and feared,this grim, adoring old
                            giant,not only had murdered her father but undoubtedly had killed her
                            mother as well. The story that David Windom had written out and signed
                            at the certain approach of death, read aloud in his presence by the
                            shocked and incredulous lawyer, and afterwards printed word for word in
                            the newspapers at the old man's command, changed the whole
                            course of life for her. In fact, her nature underwent a sharp but subtle
                            change. There was nothing left to her of the old life, no thought, no
                            purpose, no fancy; all had been swept up in a heap and destroyed in the
                            short space of half an hour. Everything in her life had to be
                            reconstructed, made-over to suit the new order. She could no longer
                            harbour vengeful thoughts concerning her father, she could no longer
                            charge him with the wanton destruction of her mother's
                            happiness.
                        The grandfather she had loved all her life assumed another shape
                            entirely; he was no longer the same, and never again could be the same.
                            She did not hate him. That was impossible. She had never seen her
                            parents, so she had not known the love of either. They did not belong in
                            her life except through the sheerest imagination. Her grandfather was
                            the only real thing she had had in life, and she had adored him. He had
                            killed two people who were as nothing to her, but he had taken the place
                            of both. How could she bring herself to hate this man who had destroyed
                            what were no more than  names to her?
                            Father,Mother! Two words,that was all. And for twenty long years he had
                            been paying,Oh, how he must have paid!
                        She recalled his reason for taking her to England when she was less than
                            eight years old and leaving her there until she was twelve. She
                            remembered that he had said he wanted her to be like her grandmother, to
                            grow up among her people, to absorb from them all that had made the
                            first Alix so strong and fine and true. And then he had come to take her
                            from them, back to the land of her birth, because, he said, he wanted
                            her to be like her mother, the second Alix,an American woman. She
                            recalled his bitter antipathy to co-educational institutions and his
                            unyielding resolve that she should complete her schooling in a Sacred
                            Heart Convent. She remembered the commotion this decision created among
                            his neighbours. In her presence they had assailed him with the charge
                            that he was turning the girl over, body and soul, to the Catholic
                            Church, and he had uttered in reply the never to be forgotten words:
                        "If I never do anything worse than that for her, I'll
                            be damned well satisfied with my chance of getting into heaven as soon
                            as the rest of you."
                        When David's will was read, it was found that except for a few
                            small bequests, his entire estate, real and personal, was left to his
                            granddaughter, Alix Crown, to have and to hold in perpetuity without
                            condition or restriction of any sort or character.
                        The first thing she did was to have a strong picket fence constructed
                            around the base of the hill leading up to Quill's Window,
                            shutting off all accessible avenues of approach to the summit. Following
                            close upon the publication of David Windom's confession, large
                                 numbers of people were urged by morbid
                            curiosity to visit the strange burial-place of Edward and Alix Crown.
                            The top of Quill's Window became the most interesting spot in
                            the county. Alix the Third was likewise an object of vast interest, and
                            the old, deserted farmhouse on the ridge came in for its share of
                            curiosity.
                        Almost immediately after the double tragedy and the birth of little Alix,
                            David Windom moved out of the house and took up his residence in the
                            riverside village of Windomville, a mile to the south. The old house was
                            closed, the window shutters nailed up, the doors barred, and all signs
                            of occupancy removed. It was said that he never put foot inside the yard
                            after his hasty, inexplicable departure. The place went to rack and
                            ruin. In course of time he built a new and modern house nearer the
                            village, and this was now one of the show places of the district.
                        The influence of Alix the First was expressed in the modelling of house
                            and grounds, the result being a picturesque place with a distinctly
                            English atmosphere, set well back from the highway in the heart of a
                            grove of oaks,a substantial house of brick with a steep red tile roof,
                            white window casements, and a wide brick terrace guarded by a low
                            ivy-draped wall. English ivy swathed the two corners of the house facing
                            the road, mounting high upon the tall red chimneys at the ends. There
                            were flower-beds below the terrace, and off to the right there was an
                            old-fashioned garden. The stables were at the foot of the hill some
                            distance to the rear of the house.
                        The village of Windomville lay below, hugging the  river, a relic of the days when steamboats plied up and
                            down the stream and railways were remote, a sleepy, insignificant,
                            intensely rural hamlet of less than six hundred inhabitants. Its one
                            claim to distinction was the venerable but still active ferry that
                            laboured back and forth across the river. Of secondary importance was
                            the ancient dock, once upon a time the stopping place of steamboats, but
                            now a rotten, rickety obstruction upon which the downstream drift lodged
                            in an unsightly mass.
                        In the solid red-brick house among the oaks Alix the Third had spent her
                            childhood days. She was taken to England when she was eight by her
                            haunted grandfather, not only to receive the bringing-up of an English
                            child, but because David Windom's courage was breaking down. As
                            she grew older, the resemblance to Edward Crown became more and more
                            startling. She had his dark, smiling eyes; his wavy brown hair; her very
                            manner of speech was like his. To David Windom, she was the
                            re-incarnation of the youth he had slain. Out of her eyes seemed to look
                            the soul of Edward Crown. He could not stand it. She became an
                            obsession, a curious source of fascination. He could not bear her out of
                            his sight, and yet when she was with him, smiling up into his eyes,he
                            was deathly afraid of her. There were times when he was almost overcome
                            by the impulse to drop to his knees and plead for forgiveness as he
                            looked into the clear, friendly, questioning eyes of Edward Crown.
                        And her voice, her speech,therein lay the true cause of his taking her to
                            England. When she came home to him, after four years, there was no trace
                            of Edward Crown in her voice or manner of speaking.  She was almost as English as Alix the First. But her eyes
                            had not changed; he was still a haunted man.
                        In the little graveyard on the outskirts of the village more than a score
                            of Windoms lie. With them lies all that was mortal of fair Alix the
                            First, and beside her is David Windom, the murderer.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    COURTNEY THANE
                    "AND what has become of Alix the Third?" inquired the young
                        man, squinting at his wrist-watch and making out in the semi-darkness that
                        it was nearly half-past nine.
                    He had listened somewhat indulgently to the story of the three Alixes. The
                        old man, prompted and sometimes disputed by other members of the family, had
                        narrated in his own simple way the foregoing tale, arriving at the end in a
                        far more expeditious and certainly in a less studied manner than the present
                        chronicler employs in putting the facts before his readers. The night was
                        hot. He was occasionally interrupted by various members of the little group
                        on the front porch of the big old farmhouse, the interruption invariably
                        taking the form of a conjecture concerning the significance of certain signs
                        ordinarily infallible in denoting the approach of rain. Heat lightning had
                        been playing for an hour or more in the gloomy west; a tree-toad in a nearby
                        elm was prophesying thunder in unmelodious song: night-birds fluttered
                        restlessly among the lofty branches; widely separated whiffs of a freshening
                        wind came around the corner of the house. All of these had a barometric
                        meaning to the wistful group. There was a thunderstorm on the way. It was
                        sure to come before morning. The prayers inaugurated a month ago were at
                        last to be answered.
                    
                    As old man Brown drily remarked: "There's one satisfaction
                        about prayin' for rain. If you keep at it long enough,
                        you're bound to get what you're askin' for. Works
                        the same way when you're prayin' for it to stop
                        rainin'. My grandfather once prayed for a solid two months before
                        he got rain, and then, by gosh, he had to pray for nearly three weeks to get
                        it to quit."
                    Supper over, the young man had reminded his venerable angling companion of
                        his promise to relate the history of Quill's Window. Old Caleb
                        Brown was the father of Mrs. Vick,Lucinda Vick, wife of the farmer in whose
                        house the young man was spending a month as a boarder.
                    The group on the porch included Amos Vick, anxious, preoccupied, and
                        interested only in the prospect of rain; his daughter Rosabel, aged
                        eighteen, a very pretty and vivacious girl, interested only in the young man
                        from the far-off, mysterious city in the East; his son Caleb, a rugged youth
                        of nineteen; Mrs. Vick, and a neighbour named White, who had come over for
                        the sole purpose of finding out just what Amos Vick thought about the
                        weather. Two dogs lay panting on the dry grass at the foot of the steps.
                    "Oh, she's living over there in the Windom house,"
                        said Mrs. Vick.
                    "Sort of running the place," explained Mr. Brown, a trace
                        of irony in his voice.
                    "Well," put in Amos Vick, speaking for the first time in
                        many minutes, "she's got a lot of sense, that girl has.
                        She may be letting on that she's running the farm, but she
                        ain't, you bet. That's where she's smart.
                        She's got sense enough to know she don't know anything
                        about running a farm, and while she puts on a lot of  airs and acts kind of important like, the real truth is she
                        leaves everything to old Jim Bagley. I guess you don't know who Jim
                        Bagley is, do you, Courtney?"
                    "I can't say that I do," replied the young man.
                    "Well, he's about the slickest citizen you ever saw. From
                        what father here says about your granddad, he must have been a purty hard
                        customer to deal with, but, by ginger, if he was any worse than Jim Bagley
                        in driving a bargain, I'm glad he died as long ago as he
                        did."
                    "You're just sore, Amos," said his wife,
                        "because Mr. Bagley got the best of you in that hog deal three
                        years ago."
                    "Oh, Lord, ain't you ever going to get tired of
                        throwin' that up to me?" groaned Mr. Vick. "I
                        never mention Jim Bagley's name but what you up and say something
                        about them hogs. Now, as a matter of fact, them hogs"
                    "For goodness sake, Pa, you're not going to tell Mr. Thane
                        about that hog business, are you?" cried Rosabel.
                    "Well, when your Ma begins to insinuate that I got the worst
                        of"
                    "I don't say that you got the worst of it, Amos,"
                        interrupted Mrs. Vick good-humouredly. "I only say that he got the
                        best of it."
                    "Well, if that don't come to the same"
                    "Looks to me, Amos, like we'd get her good and plenty
                        before mornin'," broke in Mr. White. He was referring to
                        the weather. "That ain't all heat lightnin' over
                        there. Seems to me I heard a little thunder just now."
                    "Alix Crown is away a good part of the time, Courtney,"  said Mrs. Vick, taking up the thread where it
                        had been severed by recrimination. "All through the war,long before
                        we went in,she was up in town working for the Belgiums, and then, when we
                        did go in, she went East some'eres to learn how to be a nurse or
                        drive an ambulance or something,New York, I believe. And as for money, she
                        contributed quite a bithow much do they say it was, Amos?"
                    "Well, all I know is that Mary Simmons says she gave ten thousand
                        dollars and Josie Fiddler says it was three hundred,so you can choose
                        between 'em."
                    "She did her share, all right," said young Caleb
                        defensively. "That's more'n a lot of people
                        around here did."
                    "Cale's in love with her, Mr. Thane," explained
                        Rosabel. "She's five years older than he is, and
                        don't know he's on earth."
                    "Aw, cut that out," growled Caleb.
                    "Is she good-looking?" inquired Courtney Thane.
                    "I don't like 'em quite as tall as she
                        is," said Mr. White.
                    "She's got a good pair of legs," said old Caleb
                        Brown, shifting his cigar with his tongue.
                    "We're not talking about horses, father," said
                        Mrs. Vick sharply.
                    "Who said we was?" demanded old Caleb.
                    "Most people think she's good-looking," said
                        Rosabel, somewhat grudgingly. "And she isn't any taller
                        than I am, Mr. White."
                    "Well, you ain't no dwarft, Rosie," exclaimed
                        Farmer White, with a brave laugh. "You must be five foot seven or
                        eight, but you ain't skinny like she is.  She'd ought to weigh about a hunderd and sixty, for
                        her height, and I'll bet she don't weigh more'n a
                        hunderd and thirty."
                    "I wouldn't call that skinny," remarked Courtney.
                    "She wears these here new-fangled britches when she's on
                        horseback," said old Caleb, justifying his observation.
                        "Rides straddle, like a man. You can't help seeing what
                        kind of"
                    "That will do, Pa," broke in his wife.
                        "It's no crime for a woman to wear pants when
                        she's riding, although I must say I don't think
                        it's very modest. I never rode any way except side-saddle,and
                        neither has Rosabel. I've brought her up"
                    "Don't you be too sure of that, Ma," interrupted
                        young Caleb maliciously.
                    "I never did it but once, and you know it, Cale Vick,"
                        cried Rosabel, blushing violently.
                    The subject was abruptly changed by Mr. White.
                    "Well, I guess I'll be moseyin' along home, Amos.
                        That certainly did sound like thunder, didn't it? And that
                        tree-toad has stopped signallin',that's a sure sign. Like
                        as not I'll get caught in the rain if I don't,what say,
                        Lucindy?"
                    "Do you want an umberell, Steve?"
                    "I should say not! What do you want me to do? Scare the rain off?
                        No, sir! Rain's the funniest thing in the world. If it sees you got
                        an umberell it won't come within a hunderd miles of you.
                        That's why I got my Sunday clothes on, and my new straw hat.
                        Sometimes that'll bring rain out of a clear sky,that an' a
                        Sunday-school picnic. It's a pity we couldn't have got up
                        a Sunday-school picnic,but then, of course, that wouldn't have done
                        any good. You can't fool a  rainstorm.
                        So long, Amos. Night, everybody. Night, Courtney. As I was sayin'
                        awhile ago, I used to go to school with your pa when him an' me was
                        little shavers,up yonder at the old Kennedy schoolhouse. Fifty odd years
                        ago. Seems like yesterday. How old did you say you was?"
                    "Twenty-eight, Mr. White."
                    "And your pa's been deadhow long did you say?"
                    "He died when I was twenty-two."
                    "Funny your ma didn't bring him out here and bury him
                        'longside his father and all the rest of 'em up in the
                        family burying-ground," was Mr. White's concluding
                        observation as he ambled off down the gravel walk to the front gate.
                    "I wish you'd brought your croix de
                        guerre along with you, Mr. Thane," said young Caleb, his eyes
                        gleaming in the faint light from the open door. "I guess I
                        don't pronounce it as it ought to be. I'm not much of a
                        hand at French."
                    "You came pretty close to it," said Thane, with a smile.
                        "You see, Cale, it's the sort of thing one puts away in a
                        safe place. That's why I left it in New York. Mother likes to look
                        at it occasionally. Mothers are queer creatures, you know. They like to be
                        reminded of the good things their sons have done. It helps 'em to
                        forget the bad things, I suppose."
                    "You're always joking," pouted Rosabel, leaning
                        forward, ardour in her wide, young eyes. "If I was a boy and had
                        been in the war, I'd never stop talking about it."
                    "And I'd have been in it, too, if pa hadn't up and
                        told 'em I was only a little more than fifteen," said
                        Cale, glowering at his father in the darkness.
                    
                    "You mustn't blame your pa, Cale," rebuked his
                        mother. "He knows what a soldier's life is better than you
                        do. He was down in that camp at Chattanooga during the Spanish War, and
                        almost died of typhoid, Courtney. And when I think of the way our boys died
                        by the millions of the flu, Iwell, I just know you would have died of it,
                        sonny, and I wouldn't have had any cross or medal to look at,
                        andand"
                    "Don't begin cryin', Lucindy," broke in
                        old Caleb hastily. "He didn't die of the flu, so
                        what's the sense of worryin' about it now? He
                        didn't even ketch it, and gosh knows, the whole blamed country was
                        full of it that winter."
                    "Well," began Mrs. Vick defensively, and then compressed
                        her lips in silence.
                    "I think it was perfectly wonderful of you, Mr. Thane, to go over to
                        France and fight in the American Ambulance so long before we went into the
                        war." This from the adoring Rosabel. "I wish
                        you'd tell us more about your experiences. They must have been
                        terrible. You never talk about them, though. I think the real heroes were
                        the fellows who went over when you did,when you didn't really have
                        to, because America wasn't in it."
                    "The American Ambulance wasn't over there to fight, you
                        know," explained Courtney.
                    "What did you get the cross for if you weren't
                        fighting?" demanded young Cale.
                    "For doing what a whole lot of other fellows did,simply going out
                        and getting a wounded man or two in No-Man's Land. We
                        didn't think much about it at the time."
                    "Was it very dangerous?" asked Rosabel.
                    
                    "I suppose it was,more or less so," replied Thane
                        indifferently. He even yawned. "I'd rather talk about Alix
                        the Third, if it's all the same to you. Is she light or
                        dark?"
                    "She's a brunette," said Rosabel shortly.
                        "All except her eyes. They're blue. How long were you up
                        at the front, Mr. Thane?"
                    "Oh, quite a while,several months, in fact. At first we were in a
                        place where there wasn't much fighting. Just before the first big
                        Verdun drive we were transferred to that sector, and then we saw a lot of
                        action."
                    "Some battle, wasn't it?" exclaimed young Cale, a
                        thrill in his voice.
                    "Certainly was," said Courtney. "We used to work
                        forty-eight hours at a stretch, taking 'em back by the
                        thousands."
                    "How near did the shells ever come to you?"
                    "Oh, sometimes as close as twenty or thirty feet. I remember one
                        that dropped in the road about fifty feet ahead of my car, and before I
                        could stop we ran plunk into the hole it made and upset. I suppose the
                        Windom estate must be a pretty big one, isn't it, Mr.
                        Vick?"
                    "Taking everything into consideration, it amounts to nearly a
                        million dollars. David Windom had quite a bit of property up in the city,
                        aside from his farm, and he owned a big ranch out in Texas. The grain
                        elevator in Windomville belonged to him,still belongs to Alix Crown,and
                        there's a three mile railroad connecting with the main line over at
                        Smith's Siding. Every foot of it is on his land. He built the
                        railroad about twenty year ago, and the elevator, too,out of spite, they
                        say, for the men that run the elevator at 
                        Hawkins a little further up the road. Hawkins is the place where his
                        daughter and Edward Crown got off the train the night of the
                        murder."
                    "And this young girl owns all of it,farms, ranch, railroad and
                        everything?"
                    "Every cent's worth of it is her'n. There
                        ain't a sign of a mortgage on any of it, either. It's as
                        clear as a blank sheet of writin' paper."
                    "When was it you were gassed, Mr. Thane?" inquired young
                        Caleb.
                    "Oh, that was when I was in the air service,only a few weeks before
                        the armistice."
                    "You left your wings at home, too, I suppose?"
                    "Yes. Mother likes to look at the only wings I'll probably
                        ever have,now or hereafter."
                    "How does it come, Court, that you went into the British air corpse,
                        'stead of in the U. S. A.?" inquired old Caleb.
                    "I joined the Royal Flying Corps, Mr. Brown, because the Americans
                        wouldn't have me," replied Thane tersely. "I
                        tried to get in, but they wouldn't pass me. Said I had a weak heart
                        and a whole lot of rubbish like that. It's no wonder the American
                        Air Service was punk. I went over to Toronto and they took me like a shot in
                        the Royal British. They weren't so blamed finicky and old womanish.
                        All they asked for in an applicant was any kind of a heart at all so long as
                        it was with the cause. I don't suppose I ought to say it, but the
                        American Air Service was a joke."
                    "I hope you ain't turning British in your feelings,
                        Court," remarked Amos Vick. "It's purty difficult
                        to be both, you know,English and Yankee."
                    "I'm American through and through, Mr. Vick, even  though I did serve under the British flag till
                        I was gassed and invalided out."
                    "Affects the lungs, don't it?" inquired old Caleb.
                    "I don't like to talk about it, Mr. Brown. I'm
                        trying to forget what hell was like. I was in hospital for four months. It
                        took a lot more nerve to draw a breath then than it did to fly over the
                        German lines with the Boches popping away from all sides. I didn't
                        mind the wounds I sustained,but the gas! Gee, it was horrible."
                    "Your ma said in her letter to me that you'd had pneumonia
                        twice since you got back," said Mrs. Vick. "Was that due
                        to the gas?"
                    "I suppose so. They thought I had tuberculosis for awhile, you see.
                        Then, this spring, I had to go and have a bout with typhoid. I ought to be
                        dead, with all I've had,but here I am, alive and happy, and if you
                        keep on feeding me as you have been for the past three days, I'll
                        live forever."
                    "You mustn't overdo, Courtney," warned the
                        farmer's wife. "Your ma sent you out here to get well, and
                        I fell a kind of responsibility for you. I guess it's about time
                        you was off to bed. Come on, Amos. It isn't going to bring rain any
                        sooner for you to be setting out here watching for it."
                    Old Caleb had his say. "I suppose it was all right for you to serve
                        with the British, Court, but if you'd waited a little while longer
                        you might have carried a gun over there under the Stars and Stripes. But, as
                        you say, you couldn't bear to wait. I give you credit for it.
                        I'm derned glad to see one member of the Thane family that had the
                        nerve to volunteer. At the time of the Civil War your grandpa was what we
                        call a  slacker in these days. He hired a
                        feller to go in his place, and when that feller was killed and a second call
                        for volunteers come up, dogged if he didn't up and hire another
                        one. One of your grandpa's brothers skipped off to Canada
                        so's he wouldn't have to serve, and the other,his name was
                        George Washington Thane, by the way,accidentally shot two of his fingers off
                        while his company was in camp down at Crawfordsville, gettin' ready
                        to go down and meet Morgan's Riders,and that let him out. I admit
                        it takes right smart of courage to accidentally shoot your fingers off,
                        specially when nobody is lookin', but at any rate he had a uniform
                        on when he done it. Course, there wasn't any wars during your
                        pa's day, so I don't know how he would have acted. He
                        wasn't much of a feller for fightin', though,I remember
                        that. I mean fist fightin'. I'm glad to know you
                        don't take after your granddad. I never had any use for a coward,
                        and that's why I'm proud to shake hands with you, my boy.
                        There was a derned bad streak in your family back in your
                        granddad's day, and it certainly is good to see that you have wiped
                        it out. It don't always happen so. Yeller streaks are purty hard to
                        wipe out. Takes more than two generations to do it as a rule. I'm
                        happy to know you ain't gun shy."
                    The young man laughed. "I don't mind telling you, Mr.
                        Brown, that I never went into action without being scared half out of my
                        boots. But I wasn't alone in that, you see. I never knew a man over
                        there who wasn't scared when he went over the top. He went, just
                        the same,and that's what I call courage."
                    "So do I," cried Rosabel.
                    "Did you ever know for sure whether you got a  German?" asked the intense young Caleb. "I
                        mean,did you ever kill one?"
                    "That's pretty hard to say, Cale. We never knew, you see,we
                        fellows up in the clouds. I was in a bombing machine. I'd hate to
                        think that we wasted any bombs."
                    "Come now,all of you,off to bed," interposed Mrs. Vick.
                        "I don't want to hear any more, Courtney. I
                        wouldn't sleep a wink."
                    "Strikin' ten," said Amos, arising from his
                        rocking-chair and turning it upside down at the back of the porch.
                    "Don't do that, Amos," protested old Caleb.
                        "It'll never rain if you Why, dog-gone
                        it, ain't you learned that it's bad luck to turn a chair
                        bottom-side up when rain's needed? Turn it right-side up and put it
                        right out here in front again where the rain can get at it. Nothin'
                        tickles the weather more'n a chance to spoil something.
                        That's right. Now we c'n go to bed. Better leave them
                        cushions on the steps too, Rosie."
                    Courtney Thane went to his room,the spare-room on the second floor,and
                        prepared to retire. The process was attended by the smoking of three
                        cigarettes. Presently he was stretched out on the bed without even so much
                        as a sheet over him. The heat was stifling. Not a breath of air came in
                        through the wide-open windows. He lay awake for a long time, staring out
                        into the night.
                    "So my precious granddad had a yellow streak in him, did he? And
                        father wasn't much of a fighter either. Takes more than two
                        generations to wipe out a yellow streak, does it? I wonder what the old boob
                        meant by that rotten slam at my people."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    DOWD'S TAVERN
                    THE last week in August Courtney Thane left the Vick farm and, crossing the
                        river, took lodgings at the boarding house conducted by the Misses Dowd in
                        the town of Windomville.
                    In a letter to his mother, informing her of the change, he had said:
                    Of course, I appreciate the fact that you are paying the bills, old dear, and
                        out of consideration for you I dare say I ought to stick it out with the
                        Vicks till November as we arranged. But I simply cannot stand it any longer.
                        The old woman almost puts me to bed, the girl almost sits on my lap, the boy
                        drives me crazy with his infernal questions about the war, and old man
                        Brown,the one who went to school with father out in this gosh awful land of
                        the grasshopper,he is the limit. He never lets a day go by without some slur
                        about my grandfather or some other member of the family who existed long
                        before I was born. Thinks he's witty. He is always nagging at me
                        about cigarette smoking. I wish you could see the way he mishandles a cigar.
                        As you know, I seldom smoke more than a half dozen cigarettes a day, but he
                        swears to God I am everlastingly ruining my health, and it has got on my
                        nerves so that if I stay on here another week I'll call the old jay
                        so hard he'll drop dead from the shock. And, my heavens, how
                        lonesome it is here. I almost die of homesickness. I just had to find a
                        place where there is some one to talk to besides the cows and sheep and
                        people who never think of anything but  crops
                        and the weather, last Sunday's sermon and Theodore Roosevelt. They
                        are honest, but, my God, how could they be anything else? It would not be
                        right for me to deny that I have improved a great deal in the last couple of
                        weeks. I am beginning to feel pretty fit, and I've put on four or
                        five pounds. Still, I'm getting sick of fresh eggs and fresh milk
                        and their everlasting bacon,they call it side-meat,and preserves. She simply
                        stuffs me with them. The air is wonderful, even during that awful hot spell
                        I wrote you about. I am sure that another month or two out here,perhaps
                        three,will put me back on my pins stronger than ever, and then I'll
                        be in condition to go back to work. I am eager to get at it as soon as
                        possible in order to pay back all you have put up for me during this beastly
                        year. If I did not know you can well afford to do what you have been doing
                        for me, mother dear, I wouldn't allow you to spend another penny on
                        me. But you will get it all back some day, not in cash, of course,for that
                        means nothing to you,but in the joy of knowing that it was worth while to
                        bring your only son into the world. Now, as to this change I am going to
                        make. I've been across the river several times and I like it over
                        there much better than here. I think the air is better and certainly the
                        surroundings are pleasanter. Windomville is a funny little village of five
                        or six hundred people, about the same number of dogs (exaggeration!), and
                        the sleepiest place you've ever imagined. Old Caleb Brown says it
                        was laid out back in 1830 or thereabouts by the first Windom to come to
                        these parts. It has a public school, a town hall, a motion-picture house
                        (with last year's reels), a drug store where you can get soda
                        water, a grain elevator, and a wonderful old log hut that was built by the
                        very first settler, making it nearly a hundred years old. Miss Alix Crown,
                        who owns nearly everything in sight,including the log hut,has had the latter
                        restored and turned into the quaintest little town library you've
                        ever seen. But you ought to see the  librarian!
                        She is a dried-up, squinty old maid of some seventy summers, and so full of
                        Jane Austen and the Bronte women and Mrs. Southworth that she
                        hasn't an inch of room left in her for the modern writers. Her name
                        caps the climax. It is Alaska Spigg. Can you beat it? No one ever calls her
                        Miss Spigg,not even the kids,nor is she ever spoken of or to as Alaska. It
                        is always Alaska Spigg. I wish you could see her. Miss Crown is the girl I
                        wrote you about, the one with the dime novel history back of her. She has a
                        house on the edge of the town,a very attractive place. I have not seen her
                        yet. She is up in Michigan,Harbor Point, I believe,but I hear she is
                        expected home within a week or two. I am rather curious to see her. The
                        place where I have taken a room is run by a couple of old maids named Dowd.
                        It is really a sort of hotel. At least, you would insult them if you called
                        it a boarding house. Their grandfather built the house and ran it as a
                        tavern back before the Civil War. When he died his son carried on the
                        business. And now his two daughters run the place. They have built on a
                        couple of wings and it is really an interesting old shack. Clean as a pin,
                        and they say the grub is good. It will be, as I said, a little more
                        expensive living here than with the Vicks but not enough to amount to
                        anything. The Dowds ask only fifteen dollars a week for room and board,
                        which is cheaper than the Ritz-Carlton or the Commodore, isn't it?
                        ... Here is my new address in the Metropolis of Windomville-by-the-Crick:
                        Dowd's Tavern, Main Street.
                    Her reply was prompt. She wrote from Bar Harbor, where she was spending the
                        summer:
                    
                        ... perfectly silly of you, dearest, to speak of repaying me. All I
                            possess will be yours some day, so why begrudge you a little of what
                            should be yours now? Your dear father perhaps thought he was doing the
                            right thing for both of us when he left everything to me during my  lifetime, but I do not believe it was
                            fair. ... There will not be a great deal, of course. You understand how
                            heavy my expenses have been. ... In any case, you are in wretched
                            health, my dear boy. Nothing must stand in the way of your complete
                            recovery. When you are completely recovered, well and strong and eager
                            to take up life where this cruel war cut it off, I shall be the happiest
                            mother alive. I am sure you will have no difficulty in establishing
                            yourself. They tell me the returned soldiers are not having an easy time
                            finding satisfactory and lucrative positions. It is a shame the way
                            certain concerns have treated a good many of them, after actually
                            promising to hold their places open for them. But with you it will be
                            different. I spoke to Mr. Roberts yesterday about you. He wants to have
                            a talk with you. I have an idea he wants to put you in charge of one of
                            their offices in Spain. At any rate, he asked if you spoke Spanish well.
                            ... So I can easily afford to increase your allowance to one hundred and
                            fifty a month. More, if you should ask for it, but you are so proud and
                            self-reliant I can do absolutely nothing with you, dear boy. I quite
                            understand your unwillingness to accept more than you actually need from
                            me. It is splendid, and I am very proud of you. ... This girl you wrote
                            me about, is she so very rich? ... Your father used to speak of a young
                            man named Windom and how he envied him because he was so tall and
                            handsome. Of course, your dear father was a small boy then, and that is
                            always one of the laments of small boys. That, and falling in love with
                            women old enough to be their mothers. ... Do write me often. But
                            don't be angry with me if I fail to answer all of your letters.
                            I am so frightfully busy. I rarely ever have more than a minute to
                            myself. How I have managed to find the time to write this long letter to
                            you I cannot imagine. It is really quite a nice long one, isn't
                            it? ... and don't be writing home to me in a few weeks to say
                            you are engaged to be married to her. It 
                            took me a great many years to convert your dear father into what he was
                            as you knew him. I don't relish the thought at my time of life
                            of transforming a crude farmer's daughter into a Fifth Avenue
                            lady, no matter how pretty she may be in the rough. The days of
                            Cinderella are long since past. One has so much to overcome in the way
                            of a voice with these country girls, to say nothing of the letter r.
                            Your poor father never quite got over being an Indiana farmer's
                            son, but he did manage to subdue the aforesaid letter. ... And these
                            country-girls take a harmless, amusing flirtation very seriously, dear
                            boy. ... Your adoring mother.
                    
                    Courtney Thane's fame had preceded him to Windomville. By this time,
                        the entire district had heard of the man who was gassed, and who had
                        actually won two or three medals for bravery in the Great War. The young men
                        from that section of the state who had seen fighting in France were still in
                        New York City, looking for jobs. Most of them had "joined
                        up" at the first call for volunteers. Some of them had been killed,
                        many of them wounded, but not one of them had received a medal for bravery.
                        The men who had been called by the draft into the great National Army were
                        all home again, having got no nearer to the battle front than an embarkation
                        camp in New Jersey,and so this tall, slender young fellow from the East was
                        an object not only of curiosity but of envy.
                    The Misses Dowd laid themselves out to make him comfortable,as well as
                        prominent. They gave him a corner room on the upper floor of Dowd's
                        Tavern, dispossessing a tenant of twelve years' standing,a
                        photographer named Hatch, whose ability to keep from living too far in
                        arrears depended on his luck in inveigling 
                        certain sentimental customers into taking "crayon
                        portraits" of deceased loved ones, satisfaction guaranteed, frames
                        extra. Two windows, looking out over the roof of the long front porch, gave
                        him an unobstructed view of Main Street, including such edifices as the
                        postoffice, the log-hut library, the ancient watering trough, the drug
                        store, and the steeple of the Presbyterian Church rising proudly above the
                        roofs of the houses in between.
                    Main Street ran almost parallel with the river. With commendable forethought,
                        the first settlers had built their houses and stores some little distance
                        back from the stream along the summit of a wooded ridge perhaps forty feet
                        above the river at its midsummer low-water level. The tremendous,
                        devastating floods that came annually with the breaking up of winter failed
                        to reach the houses,although in 1883,according to the records,the water came
                        up to within a foot of Joe Roush's blacksmith shop, situated at
                        that time halfway down the slope, compelling the smith to think seriously of
                        "moving up a couple of hops," a precaution that was
                        rendered unnecessary by a subsequent midsummer bolt of lightning that
                        destroyed not only the forge but shocked Joe so severely that he
                        "saw green" for a matter of six weeks and finally resulted
                        in his falling off the dock into deep water in the middle of what was
                        intended to be a protracted spree brought on by the discovery that his
                        insurance policy did not cover "loss by lightning." To
                        this day, the older inhabitants of Windomville will tell you about the way
                        his widow "took on" until she couldn't stand it
                        any longer,and then married George Hooper, the butcher, four months after
                        the shocking demise of Joseph.
                    
                    Dowd's Tavern had few transient guests. "Drummers"
                        from the city hard-by dropped in occasionally for a midday meal, but they
                        never stayed the night. The guests were what the Misses Dowd called
                        "regulars." They included Hatch, the photographer; an old
                        and indigent couple, parents of a farmer whose wife objected so vehemently
                        to their well-meant efforts to "run" her house for her
                        that he was obliged to "board 'em" with the Dowd
                        girls, an arrangement that seemed to satisfy every one concerned except the
                        farmer himself, who never missed an opportunity to praise the food and the
                        comforts to be enjoyed at the county "poorhouse" when he
                        paid his semi-annual visit to the venerable dependents; Mr. Charlie Webster,
                        the rotund manager of the grain elevator, who spent every Saturday night and
                        Sunday in the city and showed up for duty on Monday with pinkish eyes and a
                        rather tremulous whistle that was supposed to be reminiscent of
                        ecclesiastical associations; Miss Flora Grady, the dress-maker; Doctor
                        Simpson, the dentist, a pale young man with extremely bad teeth and a habit
                        of smiling, even at funerals; Miss Miller, the principal of the school, who
                        was content with a small room over the kitchen at ten dollars a week,
                        thereby permitting her to save something out of her salary, which was fifty
                        dollars a month; A. Lincoln Pollock, the editor, owner and printer of the
                            Weekly Sun, and his wife, Maude Baggs Pollock, who
                        besides contributing a poem to each and every issue of the paper, (over her
                        own signature), collected news and society items, ran the postoffice for her
                        husband, (he being the postmaster), and taught the Bible Class in the
                        Presbyterian Sunday-school, as well as officiating as president and
                        secretary of the Literary Society,  secretary
                        to the town board, secretary of the W. C. T. U., secretary of the
                        Woman's Foreign Missionary Society, secretary of the American
                        Soldiers' and Sailors' Relief Fund, secretary of the
                        Windomville Improvement Association, secretary of the Lady Maccabees, and,
                        last but far from least, secretary of the local branch of the Society for
                        the Preservation of the Redwood Forests of California. She was a born
                        secretary.
                    A. Lincoln Pollock, being a good democrat and holding office under a
                        democratic administration, had deemed it wise to abbreviate his first name,
                        thereby removing all taint of republicanism. He reduced Abraham to an
                        initial, but, despite his supreme struggle for dignity, was forced by public
                        indolence to submit to a sharp curtailment of his middle name. He was known
                        as Link.
                    The Weekly Sun duly reported the advent of Colonel Courtney
                        Thane, of New York and London, and gave him quite a
                        "send-off," at the same time getting in a good word for
                        the "excellent hostelry conducted by the Misses Dowd," as
                        well as a paragraph congratulating the readers of the Sun
                        on the "scoop" that paper had obtained over the
                        "alleged" newspapers up at the county seat. "If
                        you want the news, read the Sun," was the slogan
                        at the top of the editorial column on the second page, followed by a line in
                        parenthesis: ("If you want the Sun,
                        don't put off till tomorrow what you can do today. Price Three
                        Dollars a Year in Advance.")
                    All of the boarders sat at the same table in the dining-room. Punctuality at
                        meals was obligatory. Miss Jennie Dowd was the cook. She was assisted by
                        Miss  Margaret Slattery, daughter of Martin
                        Slattery, the grocer. Miss Mary Dowd had charge of the dining-room. She was
                        likewise assisted by Miss Slattery. Between meals Miss Slattery did the
                        dish-washing, chamber-work, light cleaning and
                        "straightening," and still found room for her daily
                        exercise, which consisted of half a dozen turns up and down Main Street in
                        her best frock. Old Jim House did the outside chores about the place. He had
                        worked at Dowd's Tavern for thirty-seven years, and it was his
                        proud boast that he had never missed a day's work,drunk or sober.
                    The new guest was given the seat of honour at table. He was placed between
                        Mrs. Pollock and Miss Flora Grady, supplanting Doctor Simpson, who had held
                        the honour ever since Charlie Webster's unfortunate miscalculation
                        as to the durability of an unfamiliar brand of bourbon to which he had been
                        introduced late one Sunday evening. It was a brand that wore extremely
                        well,so well, in fact, that when he appeared for dinner at noon on Monday he
                        was still in a lachrymose condition over the death of his mother, an event
                        which took place when he was barely six years old. Doctor Simpson
                        relinquished the seat cheerfully. He had held it a year and he had grown
                        extremely tired of having to lean back as far as possible in his chair so
                        that Mrs. Pollock and Miss Grady could converse unobstructedly in front of
                        him, a position that called for the utmost skill and deliberation on his
                        part, especially when it came to conveying soup and "floating
                        island" to such an altitude. (He had once resorted to the expedient
                        of bending over until his nose was almost in the plate, so that they might
                        talk across his back, but  gave it up when Miss
                        Molly Dowd acridly inquired if he smelt anything wrong with the soup.)
                    Mr. Hatch invited Courtney down to the studio to have his photograph taken,
                        free of charge; Mr. Pollock subjected him to a long interview about the War;
                        Mr. Webster notified him that he had laid in a small stock just prior to
                        July the first and that all he had to do was to "say the
                        word,"or wink if it wasn't convenient to speak; Miss Grady
                        told him, at great length, of her trip to New York in 1895, and inquired
                        about certain landmarks in the Metropolis,such as the aquarium, the Hoffman
                        House, Madison Square, Stewart's Drygoods Store, Tiffany's
                        place,revealing a sort of lofty nonchalance in being able to speak of things
                        she had seen while the others had merely read about them; Mrs. Pollock had
                        him write in her autograph album, and wondered if he would not consent to
                        give a talk before the Literary Society at its next meeting; and Margaret
                        Slattery made a point of passing things to him first at meals, going so far
                        as to indicate the choicest bits of "white meat," or the
                        "second joint," if he preferred the dark, whenever they
                        had chicken for dinner,which was quite often.
                    Old Mr. Nichols, (the indigent father), remembered Courtney's
                        grandfather very well, and, being apt to repeat himself, told and retold the
                        story of a horsetrade in which he got the better of Silas Thane. Mrs.
                        Nichols, living likewise in the remote past, remembered being in his
                        grandmother's Sunday-school class, and how people used to pity the
                        poor thing because Silas ran around considerable after other
                        women,'specially a lively-stableman's wife up in the
                        city,and  what a terrible time she had when
                        John Robinson's Circus came to town a little while before her first
                        child was born and the biggest boa-constrictor in captivity escaped and eat
                        up two lambs on Silas's farm before it went to sleep and was shot
                        out in the apple orchard by Jake Billings. She often wondered whether her
                        worrying about that snake had had any effect on the baby, who, it appears,
                        ultimately grew up and became Courtney's father. The young man
                        smilingly sought to reassure her, but after twice repeating his remark,
                        looked so embarrassed that Mr. Hatch gloomily announced from the foot of the
                        table:
                    "She's deef."
                    Now, as to Mr. Courtney Thane. He was a tall, spare young man, very erect and
                        soldierly, with an almost unnoticeable limp. He explained this limp by
                        confessing that he had got into the habit of favouring his left leg, which
                        had been injured when his machine came down in flames a sort distance back
                        of the lines during a vicious gas attack by the enemy(it was on this
                        occasion that he was "gassed" while dragging a badly
                        wounded comrade to a place of safety)but that the member was quite as sound
                        as ever and it was silly of him to go on being so confounded timid about it,
                        especially as it hadn't been anything to speak of in the
                        beginning,nothing more, in fact, than a cracked knee joint and a trifling
                        fracture of the ankle.
                    His hair was light brown, almost straw-coloured, and was brushed straight
                        back from the forehead. A small, jaunty moustache, distinctly English in
                        character, adorned his upper lip. His eyes were brown, set well back under a
                        perfectly level, rather prominent brow. His mouth was wide and faintly
                        satirical; his chin aggressively  square; his
                        nose long and straight. His voice was deep and pleasant, and he spoke with
                        what Miss Miller described as a "perfectly fascinating
                        drawl." Mrs. Pollock, who was quite an extensive reader of novels
                        and governed her conversation accordingly went so far as to say that he was
                        "the sort of chap that women fall in love with easily,"and
                        advised Miss Miller to keep a pretty sharp watch on her heart,a remark that
                        drew from Miss Miller the confession that she had rejected at least half a
                        dozen offers of marriage and she guessed if there was any watching to be
                        done it would have to be done by the opposite sex. (As Miss Miller had
                        repeatedly alluded to these fruitless masculine manifestations, Mrs. Pollock
                        merely sniffed,and afterwards confided to Miss Molly Dowd her belief that if
                        any one had ever asked Angie Miller to marry him she'd be a
                        grandmother by this time.) From this, it may be correctly surmised that Miss
                        Miller was no longer in the first bloom of youth.
                    Whenever Courtney appeared on Main Street, he was the centre not only of
                        observation but of active attention. Nearly every one had some form of
                        greeting for him. Introductions were not necessary. Women as well as men
                        passed the time of day with him, and not a few of the former solicitously
                        paused to inquire how he was feeling. Young girls stared at him and blushed,
                        young boys followed his progress about town with wide, worshipful eyes,for
                        was he not a hero out of their cherished romance? He had to hear from the
                        lips of ancient men the story of Antietam, of Chancellorsville and of
                        Shiloh; eulogies and criticisms of Grant, McClellan and Meade; praise for
                        the enemy chieftains, Lee, Stonewall Jackson and Johnston; comparisons in
                        the  matter of fatalities, marksmanship,
                        generalship, hardships and all such, and with the inevitable conclusion that
                        the Civil War was the greatest war ever fought for the simple reason that it
                        was fought by men and not by machinery.
                    "And, what's more," declared old Captain House
                        vigorously, "it was fit entirely by Americans, and not by every
                        dodgasted nation on the face of the earth, no two of 'em able to
                        understand a blamed word of what was being said by friend er foe."
                        "And," added ex-Corporal Grimes, stamping the sidewalk
                        with his peg leg, "what's more, there wasn't ary
                        one of them Johnny Rebs that couldn't pick off a squirrel five
                        hundred yards away with a riflea rifle, mind ye, not a
                        battery of machine guns. Every time they was a fight, big er little, we used
                        to stand out in the open and shoot at each other like soldiersand gentlemenaimin' straight at the feller we'd
                        picked out to kill. They tell me they was more men shot right smack between
                        the eyes in the Civil War than all the other wars put together. Yes-sir-ee! And as fer ree-connoiterin', why it was nothin' for our men,er
                        the rebs, either, fer that matter,to crawl up so close to the other
                        side's camps that they could smell the vittels cookin',and
                        I remember a case when one of our scouts, bein' so overcome by the
                        smell of a fried chicken, snuck right up and grabbed it offen the skillet
                        when the cook's back was turned, and got away with it safe, too,
                        b'gosh!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    TRESPASS
                    
                        COURTNEY never was without the heavy English walking-stick on which he
                            occasionally leaned for support. He took long strolls in the country,
                            frequently passing the Windom place, and twice he had gone as far as the
                            railed-in base of Quill's Window. From the footpath at the
                            bottom he could look through the trees up to the bare crest of the rock.
                            The gate through the high fence was padlocked, and contained a sign with
                            the curt warning: "No Trespass." On the opposite side
                            of the wide strip of meadow-land, in which cattle grazed placidly, he
                            could see the abandoned house where Alix Crown was born,a colourless,
                            weather-beaten, two-storey frame building with faded green window
                            shutters and a high-pitched roof blackened by rain and rot. Every
                            shutter was closed; an atmosphere of utter desolation hung over the
                            place.
                        Across that brown, sunburnt stretch of meadow-land when it was white and
                            cold, old David Windom had carried the stiff body of Edward Crown,and
                            returning had borne the soft, limp figure of his stricken child.
                            Courtney permitted his fancy to indulge in calculation. He followed with
                            his eye what must have been the path of the slayer on that dreadful
                            night. It led, no doubt, to the spot on which he now was standing, for
                            just behind him was the suggestion of a narrow, weed-lined  path that wormed its way through the trees
                            toward the top of the great rock. He decided that one day soon he would
                            disregard that sign on the gate, and climb up to the strange burial
                            place of Edward Crown and Alix the Second.
                        He had tested his increasing strength and endurance by rowing up the
                            river with Rosabel for a fair view of the hole in the face of the
                            rockQuill's Window. It was plainly visible from the river, a
                            wide black gash in the almost perpendicular wall that reached well above
                            the fringe of trees and underbrush along the steep bank of the stream.
                        He tried to picture Quill as he sat in his strange abode, a hundred years
                            ago, cowering over the fire or reading perhaps by the light of a huge
                            old-fashioned lanthorn. He thought of him hanging by the neck back in
                            the dark recess, victim either of his own conscience or the implacable
                            hatred of the enemy "down the river." And then there
                            were the others who had found death in the heart of that mysterious
                            cavern,ugly death.
                        He wondered what the interior of the cave was like, and whether he could
                            devise some means of entering it. A rope ladder attached to a
                            substantial support at the top of the cliff would afford the easiest way
                            of reaching the mouth of the cave,in fact, he recalled that Quill
                            employed some such means of descending to his eerie home. The entrance
                            appeared to be no more than twenty feet below the brow of the cliff. It
                            would not even be a hazardous undertaking. Besides, if Quill and his
                            successors were able to go up and down that wall safely and repeatedly,
                            why not he? No doubt scores of men,perhaps even schoolboys of the Tom
                            Sawyer  type,had made frequent visits to
                            the cave. He knew he would be disregarding the command of Alix Crown,a
                            command that all people respected and observed,if he passed the barrier
                            and climbed to the top of the rock, but who, after all, was Alix Crown
                            that she should say "no trespass" to the world at
                            large?
                        The thought of Edward Crown wedged in at the bottom of Quill's
                            Chimney, weighted down with stones and earth, alone served as an
                            obstacle to the enterprise. He shrank from certain gruesome
                            possibilities,such as the dislodgment of stones at the bottom of the
                            crevice and the consequent exposure of a thing that would haunt him
                            forever. And even though the stones remained in place there would still
                            remain the fact that almost within arm's length was imprisoned
                            the crushed, distorted remains of the murdered man.
                        Toward the end of his second week at Dowd's Tavern, he set out
                            to climb to the top of the big rock. He had no intention of descending
                            to the cavern's mouth on this occasion. That feat was to be
                            reserved for another day. Arriving at the gate, he was surprised and
                            gratified to discover that it was unlocked. While it was latched, the
                            padlock and chain hung loosely from the post to which the latter was
                            attached. Without hesitation, he opened the gate and strode boldly into
                            proscribed territory.
                        The ascent was gradual at first, then steep and abrupt for a matter of
                            fifty or sixty feet to the bald summit of the hill. Once at the top, he
                            sat down panting and exhausted upon the edge of the shallow fissure he
                            had followed as a path up the rock, and again his thoughts went back to
                            the night of the murder. This had been David Windom's route to
                            the top of the hill.  He found himself
                            discrediting one feature at least of the man's confession. Only
                            a fabled giant could have carried the body of a man up that steep,
                            tortuous incline. Why, he was exhausted, and he had borne no heavier
                            burden than his stout walking-stick. That part of Windom's
                            story certainly was "fishy."
                        Presently he arose and strode out upon the rough, uneven
                            "roof" of the height. He could look in all directions
                            over the tops of the trees below. The sun beat down fiercely upon the
                            unsheltered rock. Off to the north lay the pall of smoke indicating the
                            presence of the invisible county seat. Thin, anfractuous highways and
                            dirt roads scarred the green and brown landscape, and as far as the eye
                            could reach were to be seen farmhouses and barns and silos.
                        Avoiding the significant heap of rocks near the centre of the little
                            plateau, he made his way to the brink of the cliff overlooking the
                            river. There he had a wonderful view of the winding stream, the harvest
                            fields, the groves, and the herds in the far-reaching stretches of what
                            was considered the greatest corn raising "belt" in the
                            United States. Some yards back from the edge of the cliff he discovered
                            the now thoroughly rotted section of a tree trunk, eight or ten inches
                            in diameter, driven deeply into a narrow fissure and rendered absolutely
                            immovable by a solid mass of stones and gravel that completely closed
                            the remainder of the crevice. He was right in surmising that this was
                            the support from which Quill's rope or vine ladder was
                            suspended a hundred years ago. Nearby were two heavy iron rings attached
                            to standards sunk firmly into the rock, a modern improvement on the
                            hermit's crude device. (He afterwards learned that David
                            Windom, when a lad of fifteen,  had drilled
                            the holes in the rock and imbedded the stout iron shafts, so that he
                            might safely descend to the mouth of the cave.)
                        Turning back, he approached the heap of boulders that covered the grave
                            of Edward and Alix Crown. No visible sign of the cleft in the surface of
                            the rock remained. Six huge boulders, arranged in a row, rose above a
                            carefully made bed of stones held in place by a law, soundly mortared
                            wall.
                        Chiselled on one of the end boulders was the name of Alix Windom Crown,
                            with the date of her birth and her death, with the line: "Rock
                            of Ages Cleft for Me." Below this inscription was the recently
                            carved name of Edward Joseph Crown, Born July 7, 1871. Died March 22,
                            1895. Three words followed this. They were "Abide With
                            Me."
                    
                    
                        II
                        Thane stood for a long time looking at the pile. He was not sentimental.
                            His life had been spent in an irreverent city, among people hardened by
                            pleasure or coarsened by greed. His thoughts as he stood there were not
                            of the unhappy pair who reposed beneath those ugly rocks; they were of
                            the far-off tragedy that had brought them to this singular
                            resting-place. The fact that this was a grave, sacred in the same sense
                            that his father's grave in Woodlawn was supposed to be sacred
                            to him and to his mother, was overlooked in the silent contemplation of
                            what an even less sophisticated person might have been justified in
                            describing as a "freak." Nothing was farther from his
                            mind, however, than the desire or impulse to be disrespectful. And yet,
                            as he  was about to turn away from this
                            sombre pile, he leaned over and struck a match on one of the huge
                            boulders. As he was conveying the lighted sulphur match,with which
                            Dowd's Tavern abounded,to the cigarette that hung limply from
                            his lips, he was startled by a sharp, almost agonized cry. It seemed to
                            come from nowhere. He experienced the uncanny feeling that a ghost,the
                            ghost that haunted Quill's Window,standing guard over the
                            mound, had cried out under the pain inflicted by that profane match.
                        Even as he turned to search the blazing, sunlit rock with apprehensive
                            eyes, a voice, shrill with anger, flung these words at him:
                        "What are you doing up here?"
                        His gaze fell upon the speaker, standing stockstill in the cloven path
                            below him, not twenty feet away. In his relief, he laughed. He beheld a
                            slim figure in ridingtogs. Nothing formidable or ghostlike in that!
                            Nevertheless, a pair of dark blue eyes transfixed him with indignation.
                            They looked out from under the rim of a black sailor hat, and they were
                            wide and inimical.
                        "Did you not see that sign on the gate?" demanded the
                            girl.
                        "I did," he replied, still smiling as he removed his
                            hat,one of Knox's panamas. "And I owe you an
                            apology."
                        She advanced to the top. He noted the riding-crop gripped rather firmly
                            in her clenched hand.
                        "No one is permitted to come up here," she announced,
                            stopping a few feet away. She was quite tall and straight. She panted a
                            little from the climb up the steep. He saw her bosom rise and fall under
                            the khaki  jacket; her nostrils were
                            slightly distended. In that first glimpse of her, he took in the
                            graceful, perfect figure; the lovely, brilliant face; the glorious
                            though unsmiling eyes. "You must leave at once. This is private
                            property. Go, please."
                        "I cannot go before telling you how rotten I feel for striking
                            that match. I beg of you, Miss Crown,you are Miss
                            Crown?I can only ask you to believe that it was not a conscious act of
                            desecration. It was sheer thoughtlessness. I would not have done it for
                            the world if I had"
                        "It is not necessary for you to explain," she broke in
                            curtly. "I saw what you did,and it is just because of such as
                            you that this spot is forbidden ground. Idle curiosity, utter disregard
                            for the sacredness of that lonely grave,Oh, you need not attempt to deny
                            it. You are a stranger here, but that is no excuse for your passing
                            through that gate. I am Miss Crown. This hill belongs
                            to me. It was I who had that fence put up and it was I who directed the
                            sign to be put on the gate. They are meant for strangers as well as for
                            friends. It was not thoughtlessness that brought you up here. You
                            thought a long time before you came. Will you be good enough to
                            go?"
                        He flushed under the scornful dismissal.
                        "The gate was unlocked" he began.
                        "That doesn't matter. It might have been wide open,
                            sir,but that did not grant you any special privileges."
                        "I can only ask your pardon, Miss Crown, and depart in
                            disgrace," said he, quite humbly. As he started down the path,
                            he paused to add: "I did not know you  had returned. I daresay I should have been less venturesome
                            had I known you were in the neighbourhood."
                        The thinly veiled sarcasm did not escape her.
                        "I suppose you are the young man from New York that every one is
                            talking about. That may account for your ignorance. In order that you
                            may not feel called upon to visit this place again to satisfy your
                            curiosity, I will point out to you the objects of interest. This pile of
                            rocks marks the grave of my father and mother. The dates speak for
                            themselves. You may have noticed them when you scratched your match just
                            above my mother's name. My father was murdered by my
                            grandfather before I was born. My mother died on the day I was born. I
                            never saw them. I do not love them, because I never knew them. But I do respect and honour them. They were good people. I
                            have no reason to be ashamed of them. If you will look out over those
                            trees and across that pasture, you will see the house in which my mother
                            died and where I was born. Directly in front of the little porch my
                            father died as the result of a blow delivered by my grandfather. As to
                            the disposal of the body, you may obtain all the information necessary
                            from Alaska Spigg, our town librarian, who will be more than delighted
                            to supply you with all the ghastly details. To your right is the post to
                            which a man named Quill attached his ladder in order to reach the cave
                            in the face of this rock,where he lived for many years. This is the path
                            leading down to the gate, which you will still find unlocked. It will
                            not be necessary for you to come up here again. You have seen all there
                            is to see."
                        With that, she deliberately turned her back on him and walked toward the
                            edge of the cliff. He stared  after her for
                            a few seconds, his lips parted as if to speak, and then, as the flush of
                            mortification deepened in his cheeks, he began picking his way rather
                            blindly down the steep path.
                        He was never to forget his first encounter with Alix the Third.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    CHARLIE WEBSTER ENTERTAINS
                    
                        THAT evening at the supper table, Mr. Pollock politely informed him that
                            Alix Crown had returned from Michigan, looking as fit as a fiddle.
                            "You've been so sort of curious about her,
                            Court?" (it had not taken the male boarders long to dispense
                            with formalities), "that I thought you'd be interested
                            in knowing that she's home. Got back last evening. Her Packard
                            automobile met her at the depot up in the city. You'll know her
                            when you see her. Tall girl and fairly good-looking. Puts on an awful
                            lot of 'dog.' What is it you fellows in the Army call
                            it? Swunk?"
                        "Swank," said Courtney, rather shortly. He was still
                            smarting under the sting of his afternoon's experience.
                        "Lemme help you to some more squash, Mr. Thane," said
                            Margaret Slattery in his ear. "And another biscuit."
                        "Thank you, no," said he.
                        "What's the matter with your appetite?" she
                            demanded. "You ain't hardly touched anything this
                            evenin'. Sick?"
                        "I'm not hungry, Margaret."
                        "Been out in the sun too much, that's what's
                            the matter with you. First thing you know you'll get a
                            sunstroke, and then! My Uncle Mike was sunstruck when
                            I was"
                        
                        "Pass me the biscuits, Maggie, and don't be all night
                            about it," put in Mr. Webster. "I'm hungry,
                            even if Court isn't. I can distinctly remember when you used to
                            pass everything to me first, and almost stuff it"
                        "Yes, and she used to do the same for me before you shaved off
                            your chin whiskers, Charlie," said Mr. Hatch gloomily.
                            "How times have changed."
                        "It ain't the times that's changed,"
                            said Margaret. "It's you men. You ain't what
                            you used to be, lemme tell you that."
                        "True,oh so true," lamented Mr. Webster. "I
                            used to be nice and thin and graceful before you began showering me with
                            attention. Now look at me. You put something like fifty pounds on me,
                            and then you desert me. I was a handsome feller when I first came here,
                            wasn't I, Flora? I leave it to you if I
                            wasn't."
                        "I don't remember how you looked when you first came
                            here," replied Miss Grady loftily.
                        "Can you beat that?" cried Charlie to Courtney across
                            the table. "And she used to say I was the handsomest young
                            feller she'd ever laid eyes on. Used to say I looked like,who
                            was it you used to say I looked like, Flora?"
                        "The only thing I ever said you looked like was a mud fence,
                            Charlie Webster."
                        "What did she say, Pa? Hey?" This from old Mrs.
                            Nichols, holding her hand to her ear. "What are they laughing
                            at?"
                        "She says Charlie looks like a mud fence," shouted old
                            Mr. Nichols, his lips close to her ear.
                        "His pants? What about his pants?"
                        This time Courtney joined in the laugh.
                        After supper he sat on the front porch with the  Pollocks and Miss Grady. It was a warm, starry night.
                            Charlie Webster and Doc Simpson had strolled off down the street. Mr.
                            Hatch and Miss Miller sat in the parlour.
                        "She's going to land Furman Hatch, sure as
                            you're a foot high," confided Mr. Pollock, with a
                            significant jerk of his head in the direction of the parlour.
                        "Heaven knows she's been trying long enough,"
                            said Miss Grady. "I heard him ask Doc and Charlie to wait for
                            him, but she nabbed him before he could get out. Now he's got
                            to sit in there and listen to her tell about how interested she is in
                            art,and him just dyin' for a smoke. Why, there's Alix
                            Crown now. She's comin' in here."
                        A big touring car drew up to the sidewalk in front of the Tavern. Miss
                            Crown sprang lightly out of the seat beside the chauffeur and came up
                            the steps.
                        "How do you do, Mrs. Pollock? Hellow, Flora. Good evening, Mr.
                            Editor," was her cheery greeting as she passed by and entered
                            the house.
                        "She comes around every once in a while and takes the Dowd girls
                            out riding in her car," explained Mrs. Pollock.
                        "Mighty nice of her," said Mr. Pollock, taking his feet
                            down from the porch-rail and carefully brushing the cigar ashes off of
                            his coat sleeve. "Takes old Alaska Spigg out too, and the
                            Nicholses, and"
                        "We've been out with her a great many times,"
                            broke in Mrs. Pollock. "I think a Packard is a wonderful car,
                            don't you, Mr. Thane? So smooth and"
                        "I think I'll take a little stroll," said
                            Courtney abruptly; and snatching up his hat from the floor beside his
                            chair he hurried down the steps.
                        
                        She had not even glanced at him as she crossed the porch. He had the very
                            uneasy conviction that so far as she was concerned he might just as well
                            not have been there at all. In the early dusk, her face was clearly
                            revealed to him. There was nothing cold or unfriendly about it now.
                            Instead, her smile was radiant; her eyes,even in the subdued
                            light,glowed with pleasure. Her voice was clear and soft and singularly
                            appealing. In the afternoon's encounter he had been struck by
                            its unexpected combination of English and American qualities; the sharp
                            querulousness of the English and the melodious drawl of the American
                            were strangely blended, and although there had been castigation in her
                            words and manner, he took away with him the disturbing memory of a voice
                            he was never to forget. And now he had seen the smile that even the most
                            envious of her kind described as "heavenly." It was
                            broad and wholesome and genuine. There was a flash of white, even teeth
                            between warm red lips, a gleam of merriment in the half-closed eyes, a
                            gay tilt to the bare, shapely head. Her dark hair was coiled neatly, and
                            the ears were exposed. He liked her ears. He remembered them as he had
                            seen them in the afternoon, fairly large, shapely and close to the head.
                            No need for her to follow the prevailing fashion of the day! She had no
                            reason to hide her ears beneath a mat of hair.
                        In the evening glow her face was gloriously beautiful,clear-cut as a
                            cameo, warm as a rose. It was no longer clouded with anger. She seemed
                            taller. The smart riding costume had brought her trim figure into direct
                            contrast with his own height and breadth, and she had looked like a
                            slim, half-grown boy beside his six feet and over. Now, in her black and
                            white checked  sport skirt and dark sweater
                            jacket, she was revealed as a woman quite well above the average height.
                        He was standing in front of the drug store when the big car went by a few
                            minutes later, filled with people. She was driving, the chauffeur
                            sitting in the seat beside her. In the tonneau he observed the two Dowd
                            sisters, Mr. and Mrs. Pollock and Flora Grady.
                        As the car whizzed by, A. Lincoln Pollock espied him. Waving his hand
                            triumphantly, the editor called out:
                        "Hello, Court!"
                        The object of this genial shout did not respond by word or action. He
                            looked to see if the girl at the wheel turned her head for a glance in
                            his direction. She did not, and he experienced a fresh twinge of
                            annoyance. He muttered something under his breath. The car disappeared
                            around a bend as he turned to enter the store.
                        "That was Alix Crown, Court," remarked Charlie Webster
                            from the doorway. "Little too dark to get a good look at her,
                            but wait till she flashes across you in broad daylight some time.
                            She'll make you forget all those Fifth Avenue skirts so quick
                            your head'll swim."
                        "Is that so?" retorted Courtney,
                            allowing rancour to get the better of fairness. Down in his heart he had
                            said that Alix Crown was the loveliest girl he had ever seen.
                            "What do you know about Fifth Avenue?"
                        Charlie Webster grinned amiably. He was not offended by the
                            other's tone.
                        "Well, I've seen it in the movies," he
                            explained. "What are you sore about?"
                        "Sore? I'm not sore. What put that into your
                            head?"
                        
                        The rotund superintendent of the elevator fanned himself lazily with his
                            straw hat.
                        "If I was fifteen years younger and fifty pounds
                            lighter," said he, "I'd be sore too. But
                            what's the use of a fat old slob like me getting peeved because
                            Miss Alix Crown don't happen to notice me? Oh, we're
                            great friends and all that, mind you, and she thinks a lot of me,as
                            manager of her grain elevator. Same as she thinks a lot of Jim Bagley,
                            her superintendent,and Ed Stevens, her chauffeur, and so on. Now, as for
                            you, it's different. You're from New York and it goes
                            against the grain to be overlooked, you might say, by a girl from
                            Indiana. Oh, I know what you New Yorkers think of Indiana,and all that
                            therein is, as the Scriptures would say. You think that nothing but
                            boobs and corn-fed squaws come from Indiana, but if you hang around long
                            enough you'll find you're mistaken. This state is full
                            of girls like Alix Crown,bright, smart, good-looking girls that have
                            been a hell of a ways farther east than New York. Of course, there are
                            boobs like me and Doc Simpson and Tintype Hatch who get up to Chicago
                            once every three or four years and have to sew our return trip tickets
                            inside our bellybands so's we can be sure of getting back home
                            after Chicago gets through admiring us, but now since prohibition has
                            come in I don't know but what we're as bright and
                            clever as anybody else. Most of the fellers I've run across in
                            Chicago seem to be brightest just after they change feet on the rail and
                            ask the bartender if he knows how to make a cucumber cocktail, or
                            something else as clever as that. But that ain't what we were
                            talking about. We were talking about"
                        
                        "I wasn't talking about anything," interrupted
                            Courtney.
                        "Oh, yes, you were," said Charlie. "Not out
                            loud, of course,but talking just the same. You were talking about Alix
                            Crown and the way she forgot to invite you to take a ride with the rest
                            of"
                        "See here, Webster,are you trying to be offensive?"
                        "Offensive? Lord, no! I'm just telling you, that's all. On the level now, am I right or
                            wrong?"
                        "I do not know Miss Crown," replied Thane stiffly.
                            "Why should I expect her to ask me,a total stranger,to go out
                            in her car?"
                        "Didn't Maude Pollock introduce you a while
                            ago?"
                        "No," said the other succinctly.
                        "Well, by gosh, that ain't like Maude,"
                            exclaimed Charlie. "I'd 'a' bet two
                            dollars she said 'I want to present my friend from New York,
                            Mr. Courtney Thane, the distinguished aviator, Miss Crown,' or
                            something like that. I can't understand Maude missing a chance
                            like that. She just loves it."
                        Courtney smiled. "I daresay she wasn't quick
                            enough," he said drily. "Miss Crown was in a hurry.
                            And I left before she came out of the house. Now is your curiosity
                            satisfied?"
                        "Absolutely," said Charlie. "Now I'll
                            sleep soundly tonight. I was afraid the darned thing would keep me awake
                            all night. Remember me saying I had a small stock hid away up in my
                            room? What say to going up,now that the coast is clear,and having a nip
                            or two?"
                        "No, thanks, old man. I don't drink. Doctor's
                                 orders. Besides, I've got
                            some letters to write. I'll walk home with you if
                            you're ready to go."
                    
                    
                        II
                        Mr. Webster shook his head sadly. "That's the one
                            drawback to livin' in Windomville," he said.
                            "People either want to drink too much or they don't
                            want to drink at all. Nobody wants to drink in moderation. Now,
                            here's you, for instance. You look like a feller that could
                            kiss a highball or two without compromising yourself, and
                            there's Hatch that has to hold his nose so's he
                            won't get drunk if he comes within ten feet of a glass of
                            whiskey." They were strolling slowly toward the Tavern.
                            "Now you up and claim you're on the water wagon.
                            I'd been counting on you, Court,I certainly had. The last time
                            I took Hatch and Doc Simpson up to my room,that was on the Fourth of
                            last July,I had to sleep on the floor. Course, if I was skinny like Doc
                            and Hatch that wouldn't have been necessary. But I
                            can't bear sleepin' three in a bed. Doctor's
                            orders, eh? That comes of livin' in New York. There
                            ain't a doctor in Indiana that would stoop so low as that,not
                            one. Look at old man Nichols. He's eighty-two years old and up
                            to about a year ago he never missed a day without taking a couple
                            o' swigs of rye. He swears he wouldn't have lived to
                            be more than seventy-five if he hadn't taken his daily nip.
                            That shows how smart and sensible our doctors are out here.
                            They"
                        "By the way, Mrs. Nichols appears to be a remarkably
                            well-preserved old lady,aside from her hearing. How old is
                            she?"
                        
                        "Eighty-three. Wonderful old woman."
                        "I suppose she has always had her daily swig of rye."
                        Charlie Webster was silent for a moment. He had to think. This was a very
                            serious and unexpected complication.
                        "What did you say?" he inquired, fencing for time.
                        "Has she always been a steady drinker, like the old
                            man?"
                        Charlie was a gentleman. He sighed.
                        "I guess it's time to change the subject," he
                            said. "The only way you could get a spoonful of whiskey down
                            that old woman would be to chloroform her. If I'm any good at
                            guessin', she'll outlive the old man by ten years,so
                            what's the sense of me preachin' to you about the life
                            preserving virtues of booze? Oh, Lordy! There's another of my
                            best arguments knocked galley-west. It's no use. I've
                            been playing old man Nichols for nearly fifteen years as a bright and
                            shining light, and he turns out to be nothing but a busted flush.
                            She's had eleven children and he's never had anything
                            worse than a headache, and, by gosh, he's hangin' onto
                            her with both hands for support to keep his other foot from
                            slippin' into the grave. But,"and here his face
                            brightened suddenly,"there's one thing to be said,
                            Court. She didn't consult any darned fool doctor about
                            it."
                        Courtney was ashamed of his churlishness toward this good-natured little
                            man.
                        "Say no more, Charlie. I'll break my rule this once if
                            it will make you feel any better. One little drink, that's
                            all,in spite of the doctor. He's a long way off, and I daresay
                            he'll never know the difference. Lead  the way, old chap. Anything to cheer up a disconsolate
                            comrade."
                        A few minutes later they were in Webster's room, second floor
                            back. The highly gratified host had lighted the kerosene lamp on the
                            table in the centre of the room, and pulled down the window shades.
                            Then, putting his fingers to his lips to enjoin silence, he tiptoed to
                            the door and threw it open suddenly. After peering into the hall and
                            listening intently for a moment, he cautiously closed it again.
                        "All's well, as the watchman says at
                            midnight," he remarked, as he drew his key ring from his hip
                            pocket and selected a key with unerring precision from the extensive
                            assortment. "I always do that," he added. "I
                            don't suppose it was necessary tonight, because Angie Miller
                            has got Hatch where he can't possibly escape. Long as she knows
                            where he is, she don't do much snooping. She used to be the
                            same way with me,and Doc, too, for that matter. Poor Hatch,setting down
                            there in the parlour,listening to her talk about birds and flowers and
                            trying to help her guess what she's going to give him for next
                            Christmas. It's hell to be a bachelor, Court."
                        He unlocked a trunk in the corner of the room, and after lifting out two
                            trays produced a half empty whiskey bottle.
                        "I had a dozen of these to begin with," said he,
                            holding the bottle up to the light. "Dollar sixty a quart.
                            Quite a nifty little stock, eh?"
                        "Is that all you have left?"
                        Charlie scratched his ear reflectively.
                        "Well, you see, I've had a good deal of toothache
                            lately," he announced. "And as soon as Doc Simpson  and Hatch found out about it, they begin
                            to complain about their teeth achin' too. Seemed to be a sort
                            of epidemic of toothache, Court. Nothing like whiskey for the toothache,
                            you know."
                        "But Simpson is a dentist. Why don't you have him treat
                            your teeth?"
                        "Seems as though he'd sooner have me treat
                            his," said Charlie, with a slight grimace. Rummaging about in
                            the top tray of the trunk, he produced a couple of bar glasses, which he
                            carefully rinsed at the washstand. "Tastes better when you
                            drink it out of a regular glass," he explained.
                            "Always seems sort of cowardly to me to take it with
                            water,almost as if you were trying to drown it so's it
                            won't be able to bite back when you tackle it. Needn't
                            mind sayin' 'when.' The glass holds just so
                            much, and I know enough to stop when it begins to run over. Well!
                            Here's hoping your toothache will be better in the morning,
                            Court."
                        "I don't think I ought to rob you like this,
                            Charlie,"
                        "Lord, man, you're not robbing me. If you're
                            robbing anybody, it's Doc Simpson,and he's been
                            absolutely free from toothache ever since I told him this room was dry.
                            Excuse me a second, Court. I always propose a toast before I take a
                            drink up here. Here's to Miss Alix Crown, the finest girl in
                            the U. S. A., and the best boss a man ever had. Course I've
                            never said that in a saloon, but up here it's different,and
                            kind of sacred."
                        "I usually make a wry face when I drink it neat like
                            this," said Courtney.
                        "You'll like her just as well as I do when you get to
                            know her, boy. I've known her since she was a  little kid,long before she was sent
                            abroad,and she's the salt of the earth. That's one
                            thing on which Doc and Hatch and me always agree. We differ on most
                            everything else, butwell, as I was saying, you wait till you get to know
                            her."
                        He tossed off the whiskey in one prodigious gulp, smacked his lips, and
                            then stood watching his guest drink his.
                        Tears came into Courtney's eyes as he drained the last drop of
                            the fiery liquid. A shudder distorted his face.
                        "Pretty hot stuff, eh?" observed Charlie
                            sympathetically.
                        Courtney's reply was a nod of the head, speech being denied him.
                        "Don't try to talk yet," said Charlie, as if
                            admonishing a child who has choked on a swallow of water.
                            "Anyhow," he went on quaintly, after a moment,
                            "it makes you forget all about your toothache, don't
                            it?"
                        The other cleared his throat raucously. "Now I know why the
                            redskins call it fire water," said he.
                        "Have another?"
                        "Not on your life," exclaimed the New Yorker.
                            "Put it back in the trunk,and lock it up!"
                        "No sooner said than done," said Charlie amicably.
                            "Now I'll pull up the shades and let in a little of
                            our well-known hoosier atmosphere,and some real moonshine. Hello! There
                            go Hatch and Angie, out for a stroll. Yep! She's got him headed
                            toward Foster's soda water joint. I'll bet every tooth
                            in his head is achin'."
                        "How long have you been running the grain elevator,
                            Charlie?"
                        
                        "Ever since David Windom built it, back in 1897,twenty-two
                            years. I took a few months off in '98, expecting to see
                            something of Cuba, but the darned Spaniards surrendered when they heard
                            I was on the way, so I never got any farther than Indianapolis.
                            Twenty-two years. That's almost as long as Alix Crown has lived
                            altogether."
                        "Have you ever seen the grave at the top of Quill's
                            Window?"
                        "When I first came here, yes. Nobody ever goes up there now. In
                            the first place, she don't like it, and in the second place,
                            most people in these parts are honourable. We wouldn't any more
                            think of trespassin' up there than we'd think of
                            pickin' somebody's pocket. Besides which,
                            there's supposed to be rattlesnakes up there among the rocks.
                            And besides that, the place is haunted."
                        "Haunted? I understood it was the old Windom house that is
                            haunted."
                        "Well, spooks travel about a bit, being restless sort of things.
                            Thirty or forty years back, people swore that old Quill and the other
                            people who croaked up there used to come back during the dark of the
                            moon and hold high revels, as the novel writers would say. Strange to
                            say, they suddenly stopped coming back when the sheriff snook up there
                            one night with a couple of deputies and arrested a gang of male and
                            female mortals and confiscated a couple of kegs of beer at the same
                            time. Shortly after old David Windom confessed that he killed
                            Alix's father and buried him on the rock, people begin to talk
                            about seeing things again. Funny that Eddie Crown's ghost
                            neglected to come back till after he'd been dead eighteen years
                            or so. Ghosts ain't  usually so
                            considerate. Nobody ever claims to have seen him floating around the old
                            Windom front yard before Mr. Windom confessed. But, by gosh, the story
                            hadn't been printed in the newspapers for more than two days
                            before George Heffner saw Eddie in the front yard, plain as day, and ran
                            derned near a mile and a half past his own house before he could stop,
                            as he told some one that met him when he stopped for breath. Course,
                            that story sort of petered out when George's wife went down and
                            cowhided a widow who lived just a mile and a half south of their place,
                            and that night George kept on running so hard the other way that
                            he's never been heard of since. Since then there
                            hasn't been much talk about ghosts,'specially among
                            the married men."
                        "And the rattlesnakes?" said Courtney, grinning.
                        "Along about 1875 David Windom killed a couple of rattlers up
                            there. It's only natural that their ghosts should come back,
                            same as anybody else's. Far as I can make out, nobody has ever
                            actually seen one, but the Lord only knows how many people claim to have
                            heard 'em."
                        He went on in this whimsical fashion for half an hour or more, and
                            finally came back to Alix Crown again.
                        "She did an awful lot of good during the war,contributed to
                            everything, drove an ambulance in New York, took up nursing, and all
                            that, and if the war hadn't been ended by you fellers when it
                            was, she'd have been over in France, sure as you're a
                            foot high."
                        "Strange she hasn't married, young and rich and
                            beautiful as she is," mused Courtney.
                        "Plenty of fellers been after her all right. She don't
                            seem to be able to see 'em though. Now that the war's
                                 over maybe she'll settle down
                            and pay some attention to sufferin' humanity. There's
                            one thing sure. If she's got a beau he don't belong
                            around these parts. Nobody around here's got a
                            look-in."
                        "Does she live all alone in that house up there? I mean, has she
                            noerchaperon?"
                        "Nancy Strong is keeping house for her,her husband used to run
                            the blacksmith shop here and did all of David Windom's work for
                            him. He's been dead a good many years. Nancy is one of the
                            finest women you ever saw. Her father was an Episcopal minister up in
                            the city up to the time he died. Nancy had to earn her own living, so
                            she got a job as school teacher down here. Let's see, that was
                            over thirty years ago. Been here ever since. Tom Strong wasn't
                            good enough for her. Too religious. He was the feller that led the mob
                            that wiped out Tony Zimmerman's saloon soon after I came here.
                            I'll never forget that night. I happened to be in the
                            saloon,just out of curiosity, because it was new and everybody was
                            dropping in to see the bar and fixtures he'd got from
                            Chicago,but I got out of a back window in plenty of time. But as I was
                            saying, Nancy Strong keeps house for Alix. She's got a cook and
                            a second girl besides, and a chauffeur."
                        "An ideal arrangement," said Courtney, looking at his
                            wrist-watch.
                        "I wonder if you ever came across Nancy Strong's son
                            over in France. He was in the Medical Corps in our Army. He's a
                            doctor. Went to Rush Medical College in Chicago and afterwards to some
                            place in the East,John Hopkins or some such name as that. Feller about
                            your age, I should say. David Strong. Mr. Windom sent him through
                            college. They say he's  paying the
                            money back to Alix Crown as fast as he makes it. Alix hates him
                            worse'n poison, according to Jim Bagley, her foreman. Of
                            course, she don't let on to David's mother on account
                            of her being housekeeper and all. Seems that Alix is as sore as can be
                            because he insists on paying the money to her, when she claims her
                            grandpa gave it to him and it's none of her business. Davy says
                            he promised to pay Mr. Windom back as soon as he was able, and
                            can't see any reason why the old man's death should
                            cancel the obligation. Jim was telling me some time ago about the letter
                            Alix showed him from Davy. She was so mad she actually cried. He said in
                            so many words he didn't choose to be beholden to her, and that
                            he was in the habit of paying his debts, and she needn't be so
                            high and mighty about refusin' to accept the money. He said he
                            didn't accept anything from Mr. Windom as charity,claiming it
                            was a loan,and he'd be damned if he'd accept charity
                            from her. I don't believe he swore like that, but then Jim
                            can't say good morning to you without getting in a cuss word or
                            two. Alix is as stubborn as all get out. Jim says that every time she
                            gets a cheque from Davy she cashes it and hands the money over to Mrs.
                            Strong for a present, never letting on to Nancy that it came from Davy.
                            Did I say that Davy is practisin' in Philadelphia? He was back
                            here for a week to see his mother after he got out of the Army, but when
                            Alix heard he was coming she beat it up to Chicago. I thought maybe you
                            might have run across him over in France."
                        "I was not with the American Army,and besides there were several
                            million men in France, Charlie," said Courtney, arising and
                            stretching himself. "Well, good 
                            night. Thanks for the uplift. I'll skip along now and write a
                            letter or two."
                        "Snappy dreams," said Charlie Webster.
                        Just as Courtney was closing a long letter to his mother, the automobile
                            drew up in front of the Tavern and Alix Crown's guests got out.
                            There were "goodnights" and
                            "sleep-tights" and then the car went purring down the
                            dimly lighted road. He had no trouble in distinguishing Alix's
                            clear, young voice, and thereupon added the following words of comfort
                            to his faraway mother: "You will love her voice, mater dear.
                            It's like music. So put away your prejudice and wish me luck.
                            I've made a good start. The fact that she refused to look at me
                            on the porch tonight is the best sign in the world. Just because she
                            deliberately failed to notice me is no sign that she didn't
                            expect me to notice her. It is an ancient and time-honoured trick of
                            your adorable sex."
                    
                    
                        III
                        The next morning his walk took him up the lane past the charming,
                            red-brick house of Alix the Third. His leg was troubling him. He walked
                            with quite a pronounced limp, and there were times when his face winced
                            with pain.
                        "It's that confounded poison you gave me last
                            night," he announced to Charlie Webster as they stood chatting
                            in front of the warehouse office.
                        "First time I ever heard of booze going to the knee,"
                            was Charlie's laconic rejoinder. "It's
                            generally aimed at the head."
                        He made good use of the corner of his eye as he strolled leisurely past
                            the Windom house, set well back  at the top
                            of a small tree-surrounded knoll and looking down upon the grassy slope
                            that formed the most beautiful "front yard" in the
                            whole county, according to the proud and boastful denizens of
                            Windomville. Along the bottom of the lawn ran a neatly trimmed privet
                            hedge. There were lilac bushes in the lower corners of the extensive
                            grounds, and the wide gravel walk up to the house was lined with
                            flowers. Rose bushes guarded the base of the terrace that ran the full
                            length of the house and curved off to the back of it.
                        A red and yellow beach umbrella, tilted against the hot morning sun, lent
                            a gay note of colour to the terrace to the left of the steps. Some one,a
                            woman,sat beneath the big sunshade, reading a newspaper. A Belgian
                            police dog posed at the top of the steps, as rigid as if shaped of
                            stone, regarding the passer-by who limped. Halfway between the house and
                            the road stood two fine old oaks, one at either side of the lawn. Their
                            cool, alluring shadows were like clouds upon an emerald sea. Down near
                            the hedge a whirling garden spray cast its benevolent waters over the
                            grateful turf, and, reaching out in playful gusts, blew its mist into
                            the face of the man outside. Back of the house and farther up the
                            timbered slope rose a towering windmill and below it the red water tank,
                            partially screened by the tree-tops. The rhythmic beat of a hydraulic
                            pump came to the stroller's ears.
                        Courtney's saunterings had taken him past this charming place
                            before,half a dozen times perhaps,but never had it seemed so alluring.
                            Outwardly there was no change that he could detect, and yet there was a
                            subtle difference in its every aspect. The spray, the shadows, the lazy
                            windmill, the flowers,he had seen  them all
                            before, just as they were this morning. They had not changed. But now,
                            by some strange wizardry, the tranquil setting had been transformed into
                            a vibrant, exquisite fairyland, throbbing with life, charged with an
                            appeal to every one of the senses. It was as if some hand had shaken it
                            out of a sound sleep.
                        But, for that matter, the whole village of Windomville had undergone a
                            change. It was no longer the dull, sleepy place of yesterday. Over night
                            it had blossomed. Courtney Thane alone was aware of this amazing
                            transformation. It was he who felt the thrill that charged the air, who
                            breathed in the sense-quickening spice, who heard the pipes of Pan. All
                            these signs of enchantment were denied the matter-of-fact, unimaginative
                            inhabitants of Windomville. And you would ask the cause of this amazing
                            transformation?
                        Before he left the breakfast table Courtney had consented to give a talk
                            before the Literary Society on the coming Friday night. Mrs. Maude Baggs
                            Pollock had been at him for a week to tell of his experiences at the
                            front. She promised a full attendance.
                        "I've never made a speech in my life," he
                            said, "and I know I'd be scared stiff, Mrs.
                            Pollock."
                        "Pooh! Don't you talk to me about being scared! Anybody
                            who did the things you did over in France"
                        "Ah, but you forget I was armed to the teeth," he
                            reminded her, with a grin.
                        "Well," put in Charlie Webster,
                            "we'll promise to leave our pistols at home. The only
                            danger you'll be in, Court, will come from a lot of hysterical
                            women trying to kiss you, but I think I can fix it to have the best
                            lookin' ones up in front so that"
                        "I wish you wouldn't always try to be funny, Charlie
                                 Webster," snapped Mrs.
                            Pollock. "Mr. Thane and I were discussing a serious matter. If
                            you can postpone"
                        "I defy anybody to prove that there's anything funny
                            about being kissed by practically half the grownup population of
                            Windomville with the other half lookin' on and cussin'
                            under their breath."
                        "Don't pay any attention to him, Mr. Thane,"
                            said the poetess of Windomville. "Alix Crown said last night
                            she was coming to the meeting this week, and I'd so like to
                            surprise her. Now please say you will do it."
                        "I really wouldn't know what to talk about,"
                            pleaded the young man. "You see, as a rule, we fellows who were
                            over there don't feel half as well qualified to talk about the
                            war as those who stayed at home and read about it in the
                            papers."
                        "Nonsense! All you will have to do is just to tell some of your
                            own personal experiences. Nobody's going to think you are
                            bragging about them. We'll understand."
                        "Next Friday night, you say? Well, I'll try, Mrs.
                            Pollock, if you'll promise to chloroform Charlie
                            Webster," said he, and Charlie promptly declared he would do
                            the chloroforming himself.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    COURTNEY APPEARS IN PUBLIC
                    THE meetings of the Literary Society were held once a month in the
                        Windomville schoolhouse, a two story brick building situated some distance
                        back from the main street at the upper edge of the town. There were four
                        classrooms and three teachers, including the principal, Miss Angie Miller,
                        who taught the upper grade. Graduates from her "room" were
                        given diplomas admitting them to the first year of High School in the city
                        hard-by in case they desired to take advantage of the privilege. As a rule,
                        however, the parents of such children were satisfied to call it an honour
                        rather than a privilege, with the result that but few of them ever saw the
                        inside of the High School. They were looked upon as being quite sufficiently
                        educated for all that Windomville could possibly expect or exact of them.
                        When the old school-house was destroyed by fire in the winter of 1916, Alix
                        Crown contributed fifteen thousand dollars toward the construction of this
                        new and more or less modern structure, with the provision that the town
                        board should appropriate the balance needed to complete the building. On
                        completion the schoolhouse was found to have cost exactly $14,989.75, and
                        so, at the next township election, the board was unanimously returned to
                        office by an appreciative constituency, and Miss Crown graciously notified
                        by the assessor that she had been credited 
                        with ten dollars and twenty-five cents against her next year's road
                        tax.
                    The Literary Society always met in Miss Miller's
                        "room," not because it was more imposing or commodious
                        than any of the others but on account of its somewhat rarified intellectual
                        atmosphere. Miss Angie's literary attainments, while confined to
                        absorption rather than to production, were well known. She was supposed to
                        have read all of the major poets. At any rate she was able to quote them.
                        Besides, she had made a study of Dickens and Thackeray and Trollope, being
                        qualified to discuss the astonishing shortcomings of those amiable
                        mid-Victorians in a most dependable manner. She made extensive use of the
                        word "erudite," and confused a great many people by
                        employing "vicarious" and "didactic" and
                            "raison d'tre" in the
                        course of ordinary conversation. For example, in complaining to Mr. Hodges,
                        the school trustee, about the lack of heat in mid-January, she completely
                        subdued him be remarking that there wasn't "the least raison d'tre for such a condition." In
                        view of these and other intellectual associations, Miss Miller's
                        "room" was obviously the place for the Literary Society to
                        meet.
                    Mr. George Ade, Mr. Booth Tarkington, Mr. James Whitcomb Riley, Mr. Meredith
                        Nicholson and other noted Indiana authors had been invited to "read
                        from their works" before the Society, and while none of them had
                        been able to accept, each and every one had written a polite note of regret
                        to the secretary, who not only read them aloud to the Society but preserved
                        them in her own private scrap book and spoke feelingly of her remarkable
                        "collection."
                    The room was crowded to hear the "celebrated airman"  relate his experiences at the front. The
                        exercises were delayed for nearly an hour while Mr. Hatch, the photographer,
                        prepared and foozled three attempts to get a flashlight picture of the
                        gathering. Everybody was coughing violently when A. Lincoln Pollock arose to
                        introduce the speaker of the evening. In conclusion he said:
                    "Mr. Thane was not only wounded in the service of humanity but he
                        was also gassed. I wish to state here and now that it was not laughing gas
                        the Germans administered. Far from it, my friends. Mr. Thane will tell you
                        that it was no laughing matter. He has come to God's own country to
                        recuperate and to regain his once robust health. After looking the world
                        over, he chose the health-giving climate of his native state,ahem! I should
                        say, his father's native state,and here he is not only thriving but
                        enjoying himself. I take it upon myself to announce that he left all of his
                        medals at his home in New York. They are too precious to be carried
                        promiscuously about the country. It is my pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to
                        introduce to you one of the real heroes of the Great War, Mr. Courtney
                        Thane, of New York City, who will now speak to you."
                    Alix Crown sat at the back of the room. There were no chairs, of course. Each
                        person present occupied a scholar's seat and desk. Courtney had
                        seen her come in. She was so late that he began to fear she was not coming
                        at all. The little thrill of exultation that came with her arrival was
                        shortly succeeded by an even greater fear that she would depart as soon as
                        the meeting was over, without stopping to meet him at the
                        "reception" which was to follow.
                    
                    In his most agreeable drawl and with the barest reference to his own
                        exploits, he described, quite simply, a number of incidents that had come
                        under his personal observation while with the American Ambulance and
                        afterwards in the British Flying Corps. Most of his talk was devoted to the
                        feats of others and to the description of scenes and events somewhat remote
                        from the actual fighting zone. He confessed that he knew practically nothing
                        of the work of the American Expeditionary Force, except by hearsay, as he
                        did not come in contact with the American armies, except an occasional unit
                        brigaded with British troops in the Cambrai section of the great line. His
                        listeners, no doubt, knew a great deal more about the activities and
                        achievements of the Americans than he, so he was quite sure there was
                        nothing he could say that would interest or enlighten them. In concluding he
                        very briefly touched upon his own mishap.
                    "We were returning from a bombing flight over the German positions
                        when somebody put a bullet into our petrol and down we came in flames. There
                        was a gas attack going on at the time. We managed to land in a cloud of it,
                        andsomehow we got back to our own lines, a little the worse for wear and all
                        that sort of thing, you know. It wasn't as bad as you'd
                        think,except for the gas, which isn't what you would call
                        palatable,and I came out not much worse off than a chap who has been through
                        a hard football scrimmage. Knee and ankle bunged up a little,and a dusty
                        uniform,that's about all. I hope you will excuse me from talking
                        any longer. My silly throat goes back on me, you see. My mother probably
                        would tell you, 'too many cigarettes.' Perhaps she is
                        right.  Thank you for listening to all this
                        rot, ladies and gentlemen. You are very kind to have given me this
                        undeserved honour."
                    Not once during his remarks did he allow his gaze to rest upon Alix Crown. It
                        was his means of informing her that she had not made the slightest
                        impression upon him.
                    As he resumed his seat beside Mr. Pollock, and while the generous
                        hand-clapping was still going on, Pastor Mavity arose and benignly waited
                        for the applause to cease. Mr. Mavity invariably claimed the ecclesiastical
                        privilege of speech. No meeting was complete, no topic exhausted, until he
                        had exercised that right. It did not matter whether he had anything
                        pertinent to say, the fact still remained that he felt called upon to say
                        something:
                    "I should like to ask Mr. Thane if he thinks the Germans are
                        preparing for another war. We have heard rumours to that effect. Many of our
                        keenest observers have declared that it is only a matter of a few years
                        before the Germans will be in a position to make war again, and that they
                        will make it with even greater ferocity than before. We all know of the
                        conflict now raging in Russia, and the amazing rebellion of De Annunzio in Fiume, and theeras I was saying, the possibility of the
                        Kaiser seizing his bloody throne and calling upon his minions toaherrenew
                        the gigantic struggle. The history of the world records no such stupendous
                        sacrifice of life on the cruel altars of greed and avarice anderambition. We
                        may turn back to the vast campaigns of Hannibal and Hamilcar and Julius
                        Caesar and find noerno war comparable to the one we have so gloriously
                        concluded. Our own  Civil War, with all its,but
                        I must not keep you standing, Mr. Thane. Do you, from your experience and
                        observation, regard another war as inevitable?"
                    "I do," was Courtney's succinct reply.
                    There was a distinctly audible flutter throughout the room. Here, at last,
                        was something definite to support the general contention that "we
                        aren't through with the Germans yet." A lady up in front
                        leaned across the aisle and whispered piercingly to her husband:
                    "There! What did I tell you?"
                    Another lady arose halfway from her seat and anxiously inquired:
                    "How soon do you think it will come, Mr. Thane?"
                    She had a son just turning seventeen.
                    "That is a question I am afraid you will have to put to God or the
                        German Emperor," said Courtney, with a smile.
                    "When David Strong was home this spring I asked him what he thought
                        about it," said Editor Pollock. "I published the interview
                        in the Sun. He was of the opinion that the Germans had had
                        all they wanted of war. I tried to convince him that he was all wrong, but
                        all I could get him to say was that if they ever did make war again it would
                        be long after the most of us were dead."
                    "David Strong didn't see anything of the war except what he
                        saw in the hospitals," said a woman contemptuously.
                    "Permit me to correct you, Mrs. Primmer," said Alix Crown,
                        without arising. "David Strong was under fire most of the time. He
                        was not in a base hospital. He was attached to a field hospital,first with
                             the French, then with the British, and
                        afterwards with the Americans."
                    "In that case," said Courtney, facing her, "he was
                        in the thick of it. Every man in the army, from general down to the humblest
                        private, takes his hat off to the men who served in the field hospitals.
                        While we may differ as to the next war, I do not hesitate to say that Dr.
                        Strong saw infinitely more of the last one than I did. It may sound
                        incredible to you, ladies and gentlemen, but my job was a picnic compared to
                        his. As a matter of fact, I have always claimed that I was in greater danger
                        when I was in the American Ambulance than when I was flying, quite safely, a
                        couple of miles up in the air. At any rate, I felt
                        safer."
                    "Oh, but think of falling that distance," cried Miss Angie
                        Miller.
                    "It was against the rules to think of falling," said he,
                        and every one laughed.
                    The "reception" followed. Every one came up and shook hands
                        with Courtney and told him how much his address was enjoyed. As the group
                        around him grew thicker and at the same time more reluctant to move on, he
                        began to despair of meeting Alix Crown. He could see her over near the door
                        conversing with Alaska Spigg and Charlie Webster. Then he saw her wave her
                        hand in farewell to some one across the room and bow to Charlie. There was a
                        bright, gay smile on her lips as she said something to Charlie which caused
                        that gentleman to laugh prodigiously. All hope seemed lost as she and little
                        old Alaska turned toward the open door.
                    It was not fate that intervened. It was Pastor 
                        Mavity. Disengaging himself from the group and leaving a profound sentence
                        uncompleted, he dashed over to her, calling out her name as he did so.
                    "Alix! Just a moment, please!"
                    She paused,and Courtney discreetly turned his back. Presently a benevolent
                        hand was laid on his shoulder and the voice of the shepherd fell upon his
                        ear.
                    "I want you to meet Miss Crown, Mr. Thane. She has just been telling
                        me how interested she was in your remarks. Miss Crown, my very dear friend,
                        Mr. Courtney Thane. Mr. Thane, as you may already know, is sojourning in our
                        midst for"
                    "I am delighted to meet you, Miss Crown," broke in
                        Courtney, with an abashed smile. "Formally, I mean. I have a very
                        distinct recollection of meeting you informally," he added wrily.
                    "Dear me!" exclaimed Mr. Mavity, elevating his eyebrows.
                    Courtney's humility disarmed her. She allowed her lips to curve
                        slightly in a faint smile. The merest trace of a dimple flickered for an
                        instant in her smooth cheek.
                    "I suppose it was the old story of forbidden fruit, Mr.
                        Thane," said she. Then, impulsively, she extended her hand. He
                        clasped it firmly, and there was peace between them.
                    "On the contrary, Miss Crown, it was an unpardonable piece of
                        impudence, for which I am so heartily ashamed that I wonder how I can look
                        you in the face."
                    "I was tremendously interested in your talk tonight," she
                        said, coolly dismissing the subject. "Thank  you for giving us the pleasure. It is just such adventures as
                        you have had that makes me wish more than ever that I had not been born a
                        girl."
                    He bowed gallantly. "What would the world be like if God had
                        neglected to create the rose?"
                    "Bravo!" cried Mr. Mavity, slapping him on the back.
                        "Spoken like a knight of old."
                    "Good night, Mr. Thane,and thank you again," she said.
                        Nodding to Mr. Mavity, she turned to leave the group.
                    Again the parson intervened. "My dear Alix, I can't let you
                        go without saying a word about your splendid defence of David Strong. It was
                        fine. And you, sir, wereahwhat shall I say?you were most generous in saying
                        what you did. David is a fine fellow. He"
                    "I should have said the same about any doctor who was up at the
                        front," said Courtney simply. "Is he an old friend, Miss
                        Crown?"
                    "I have known him ever since I can remember," she replied,
                        and he detected a slight stiffness in her manner.
                    "Ahem! Erah" began Mr. Mavity tactfully. "David
                        was born here, Mr. Thane. Well, good night, Alix,good night."
                    When she was quite out of hearing, the flustered parson lowered his voice and
                        said to Courtney:
                    "Theyerdon't get along very well, you see. I
                        couldn't explain while she was here. Something to do with money
                        matters,nothing of consequence, I assure you,but very distressing, most
                        distressing. It is too bad,too bad."
                    Mrs. Pollock overheard. "They're both terribly set in their
                        ways," she remarked. "Stubborn as mules. For my part, I
                        think Alix is too silly for words about  it.
                        Especially with his mother living in the same house with her. Now, mind you,
                        I'm not saying anything against Alix. I love her. But just the
                        same, she can be the most unreasonable"
                    "They haven't spoken to each other for over three
                        years," inserted Angie Miller. "When they were children
                        they were almost inseparable. David Windom took a fancy to little David. The
                        story is that he was trying to ease his conscience by being nice to a
                        blacksmith's son. You see, his own daughter ran away with a
                        blacksmith's son,and you've heard what happened, Mr.
                        Thane. David was in my class for two years before he went up to High School,
                        and I remember he always used to get long letters from Alix when she was in
                        England. Then, when she came home,she was about twelve I think,they were
                        great friends. Always together, playing, studying, reading, riding
                        and"
                    "Everybody used to say old David Windom was doing his best to make a
                        match of it," interrupted Mrs. Pollock, who had been out of the
                        conversation longer than she liked. "Up to the time the old man
                        died, we used to take it for granted that some day they would get
                        married,but, my goodness, it's like waving a red flag at a bull to
                        even mention his name to Alix now. She hates him,and I guess he hates
                        her."
                    "Oh, my dear friend," cried Mr. Mavity, "I really
                        don't think you ought to say that. Hate is a very dreadful word. I
                        am sure Alix is incapable of actually hating any one. And as for David, he
                        is kindness, gentleness itself. It is just one of those unfortunate
                        situations that cannot be accounted for."
                    Charlie Webster came up at that juncture.
                    
                    "Say, Court, why didn't you tell 'em about the
                        time you called Colonel What's-His-Name down,the French guy
                        that" The scowl on Courtney's brow silenced the genial
                        Charlie. He coughed and sputtered for a moment or two and then said
                        something about "taking a joke."
                    As Charlie moved away, Miss Angie Miller sniffed and said, without
                        appreciably lowering her voice:
                    "I wonder where he gets it. There isn't supposed to be a
                        drop in Windomville." Suddenly her eyes flew wide open.
                        "Furman! Oh, Furman Hatch!" she called out to a man who
                        was sidling toward the door in the wake of the pernicious Mr. Webster.
                    While there was nothing to indicate that Mr. Hatch heard her, the most
                        disinterested spectator would have observed a perceptible acceleration of
                        speed on his part.
                    "You promised to tell me how to" But Mr. Hatch was gone.
                        Mr. Webster turned a surprised and resentful look upon him as he felt
                        himself being pushed rather roughly through the door ahead of the hurrying
                        photographer. When Miss Angie reached the door,she had lost some little time
                        because of the seats and the stupidity of Mrs. Primmer who blocked the way
                        by first turning to the right, then to the left, and finally by not turning
                        at all,Mr. Hatch was nowhere in sight, even though Mr. Webster was barely
                        two-thirds of the way down the stairs.
                    A pleasant, courteous voice accosted her from behind as she stood glaring
                        after the chubby warehouseman.
                    "Do you mind if I walk home with you, Miss Miller?"
                    "Oh, isis that you, Mr. Thane?" She fairly  gasped. Then she simpered.
                        "I'm really not a bit afraid.
                        Still,"hastily"if you really wish to, I should be
                        delighted."
                    If Mr. Hatch was lurking anywhere in the shadows, he must have been
                        profoundly impressed by the transformation in Miss Angie Miller as she
                        strode homeward at the side of the tall young New Yorker, her hand on his
                        arm, her head held high,he might also have noticed that she stepped a little
                        higher than usual.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    ALIX THE THIRD
                    OCTOBER came, with its red and golden trees, its brown pastures, its crisp
                        nights and its hazy, smoky days. Fi--s were kindled in
                        old-fashioned fireplaces; out in the farmyards busy housewives were making
                        soap and apple butter in great iron kettles suspended over blazing logs;
                        wagons laden with wheat and corn rumbled through country roads and up to the
                        Windom elevator; stores were thriving under the spur of new-found money; the
                        school was open, Main Street childless for hours at a time,and Courtney
                        Thane was still in Windomville.
                    He was a frequent, almost constant visitor at the red-brick house on the
                        knoll. The gossips were busy. Sage winks were exchanged when Alix and he
                        were seen together in her automobile; many a head was lowered so that its
                        owner might peer quizzically over the upper rims of spectacles as they
                        strolled past the post-office and other public porches; convicting feminine
                        smiles pursued the young man up the lane leading to Alix's home.
                        There were some doubtful bead-shakings, but in the main Windomville was
                        rather well pleased with the prospect. Opinion, though divided, was almost
                        unanimous: few there were who held that "nothin' would
                        come of it."
                    Charlie Webster was one of the latter. His early intimacy with the ex-aviator
                        had suffered a decided  slump. His jovial
                        attempts to plague the young man about his intentions met with the frostiest
                        reception. Indeed, on one memorable occasion, the object of these
                        good-natured banterings turned upon him coldly and said:
                    "See here, Webster, you're getting to be considerable of a
                        nuisance. Cut it out, will you? You are not half as funny as you think you
                        are. I'm pretty well fed up with your
                        freshnessunderstand?"
                    It was a slap in the face that Charlie did understand, and
                        one he never forgot. As the rebuke was uttered on the porch of
                        Dowd's Tavern and in the presence of Flora Grady, Maude Baggs
                        Pollock and one or two others, the sting was likely to endure.
                    While Courtney's manner had undergone a decided change so far as
                        nearly all of his fellow-lodgers were concerned, he still maintained a very
                        friendly and courteous attitude toward the Dowd sisters and Mr. and Mrs.
                        Pollock. For some reason known only to himself,(but doubtless plain to the
                        reader of this narrative),he devoted most of his attention to the editor and
                        his wife and to the two spinsters who were such close friends of the young
                        lady of his dreams. As for the others, he made no attempt to conceal his
                        disdain.
                    It was not long before the Irish in Miss Flora Grady was aroused. She
                        announced to Miss Angie Miller that he was a "stuck up
                        smart-Aleck," and sooner or later he'd get a piece of her
                        mind that would "take him down a couple of pegs." Miss
                        Miller, while in complete accord with Flora's views, was content to
                        speak of him as "supercilious."
                    Charlie Webster grew more and more thoughtful under the weight of indignity.
                    
                    "I certainly missed my guess as to that feller," he
                        remarked to Doc Simpson and Hatch one day. "I had him sized up as a
                        different sort of feller altogether. Why, up to a couple of weeks ago, he
                        was as nice as pie to all of us,'specially to me. He used to come
                        over to my office and sit around for hours, chatting and smoking cigarettes
                        and joshing like a good feller. But I've got it all figgered out,
                        boys. He was simply workin' me. He always led the conversation
                        round to Alix Crown, and then, like a dern' fool, I'd let
                        him pump me dry. Why, there's nothing he don't know about
                        that girl,and all through me. Now he's got in with her,just as he
                        wanted to all along,and what does he do but tie a can to me and give me a
                        swift kick. And there's another thing I might as well say to you
                        fellers while I'm about it. I've been doing a lot of
                        thinking lately,sort of putting things together in my mind,and it's
                        my opinion that he is one of the blamedest liars I've ever come
                        across."
                    He paused to see the effect of this startling assertion. Hatch removed the
                        corn-cob pipe from between his lips and laconically observed:
                    "Well, I know of one lie he's told."
                    "You do?"
                    "Remember him telling us at the supper table one night that a German
                        submarine fired three torpedoes at the steamer he was coming home on with a
                        lot of other sick and wounded? Well, a couple of nights ago he forgot
                        himself and made the statement that he was in a hospital in England for
                        nearly two months after the armistice was signed."
                    "By gosh, that's right," cried Doc Simpson.
                    "And what's more," went on Hatch,
                        "wasn't he  serving in the
                        British Army? What I'd like to know is this: why would England be
                        sending her wounded soldiers over to America? You can bet your life England
                        wasn't doing anything like that."
                    "There's another thing that don't sound just right
                        to me," said Charlie, his brow furrowed. "He says one
                        night he got lost driving his ambulance and the first thing he knew he was
                        away behind the German lines. I may be wrong, but I've always
                        thought both sides had trenches. What puzzles me is how the dickens he
                        managed to drive that Ford of his over the German trenches without
                        noticin' 'em,and back again besides."
                    "Well," said Doc, desiring to be fair, "it seems
                        to be the habit of soldiers to lie a little. That's where we get
                        the saying, 'he lied like a trooper.' I know my Uncle
                        George lied so much about what he did in the Civil War that he ought to have
                        had twenty pensions instead of one. Still, there's a big change in
                        Court, as you say, Charlie. I wonder if Alix is really keen about him.
                        He's up there all the time, seems to me. Or is she just
                        stringin' him?"
                    Charlie frowned darkly. "He's a slick one. II'd
                        hate to see Alix fall for him."
                    The sententious Mr. Hatch: "The smartest women in the world lose
                        their heads over a feller as soon as they find out he's in poor
                        health."
                    "He's in perfect health," exploded Charlie.
                    "I know,but that don't prevent him from coughing and
                        holding his side and walking with a cane, does it? That's what gets
                        'em, Charlie. The quickest way to get a girl interested is to let
                        her think you're in need of sympathy."
                    
                    "It don't work when you're as fat as I
                        am," said Charlie gloomily.
                    Conscious or unconscious of the varying opinions that were being voiced
                        behind his back, Courtney went confidently ahead with his wooing. He
                        congratulated himself that he was in Alix's good graces. If at
                        times she was perplexingly cool,or "upstage," as he called
                        it,he flattered himself that he knew women too well to be discouraged by
                        these purely feminine manifestations.
                    This was a game he knew how to play. The time was not yet ripe for him to
                        abandon his well-calculated air of indifference. That he was desperately in
                        love with her goes without saying. If at the outset of his campaign he was
                        inspired by the unworthy motive of greed, he was now consumed by an entirely
                        different desire,the desire to have her for his own, even though she were
                        penniless.
                    Those whirlwind tactics that had swept many another girl off her feet were
                        not to be thought of here. Alix was different. She was not an
                        impressionable, hair-brained flapper, such as he had come in contact with in
                        past experiences. Despite her sprightly, thoroughly up-to-the-moment ease of
                        manner, and an air of complete sophistication, she was singularly
                        old-fashioned in a great many respects. While she was bright, amusing, gay,
                        there was back of it all a certain reserve that forbade
                        familiarity,sufficient, indeed, to inspire unexampled caution on his part.
                        She invited friendship but not familiarity; she demanded respect rather than
                        admiration.
                    He was not slow in arriving at the conclusion that she knew men. She knew how
                        to fence with them. He was distinctly aware of this. Other men, of course,
                             had been in love with her; other men no
                        doubt had dashed their hopes upon the barrier in their haste to seize the
                        treasure. It was inconceivable that one so lovely, so desirable, so utterly
                        feminine should fail to inspire in all men that which she inspired in him.
                        The obvious, therefore, was gratifying. Granted that she had had proposals,
                        here was the proof that the poor fools who laid their hearts at her feet had
                        gone about it clumsily. Such would not be the case with him. Oh no! He would
                        bide his time, he would watch for the first break in her enchanted
                        armour,and then the conquest!
                    There were times, of course, when he came near to catastrophe,times when he
                        was almost powerless to resist the passion that possessed him. These were
                        the times when he realized how easy it would have been to join that sad
                        company of fools in the path behind her.
                    He had no real misgivings. He felt confident of winning. True, her moods
                        puzzled him at times, but were they not, after all, omens of good fortune?
                        Were they not indications of the mysterious changes that were taking place
                        in her? And the way was clear. So far as he knew, there was no other man.
                        Her heart was free. What more could he ask?
                    On her side, the situation was not so complex. He came from the great outside
                        world, he brought the outside world to the lonely little village on the bank
                        of the river. He was bright, amusing, cultivated,at least he represented
                        cultivation as it exists in open places and on the surface of a sea called
                        civilization. He possessed that ineffable quality known as
                        "manner." The spice of the Metropolis clung to him. He
                        could talk  of the things she loved,not as she
                        loved the farm and village and the home of her fathers, but of the things
                        she loved because they stood for that which represented the beautiful in
                        intellect, in genius, in accomplishment. The breath of far lands and wide
                        seas came with him to the town of Windomville, grateful and soothing, and
                        yet laden with the tang of turmoil, the spice of iniquity.
                    Alix was no Puritan. She had been out in the world, she had come up against
                        the elemental in life, she had learned that God in His wisdom had peopled
                        the earth with saints and sinners,and she was tolerant of both! In a word,
                        she was broad-minded. She had been an observer rather than a participant in
                        the passing show. She had absorbed knowledge rather than experience.
                    The conventions remained unshaken so far as she was personally concerned. In
                        others she excused much that she could not have excused in herself,for the
                        heritage of righteousness had come down to her through a long line of
                        staunch upholders.
                    She loved life. She craved companionship. She could afford to gratify her
                        desires. Week-ends found two or more guests at her home,friends from the
                        city up the river. Sometimes there were visitors from Chicago, Indianapolis
                        and other places,girls she had met at school, or in her travels, or in the
                        canteen. Early in the war her house was headquarters for the local Red Cross
                        workers, the knitters, the bandage rollers, and so on, but after the entry
                        of the United States into the conflict, most of her time was spent away from
                        Windomville in the more intense activities delegated to women.
                    She attended the theatre when anything worth while came to the city,
                        frequently taking one or two of the  village
                        people with her. Once, as she was leaving the theatre, she heard herself
                        discussed by persons in the aisle behind.
                    "That's Alix Crown. I'll tell you all about her
                        when we get home. Her father and mother were murdered years ago and buried
                        in a well or something. I wish she'd turn around so that you could
                        get a good look at her face. She's quite pretty and"
                    And she had deliberately turned to face the speaker, who never forgot the
                        cold, unwavering stare that caused her to lower her own eyes and her voice
                        to trail off into a confused mumble.
                    Alix was a long time in recovering from the distress caused by the incident.
                        She avoided the city for weeks. It was her first intimation that she was an
                        object of unusual interest to people, that she was the subject of whispered
                        comment, that she was a "character" to be pointed out to
                        strangers. Even now, with the sting of injury and injustice eased by time
                        and her own good sense, there still remained the disturbing consciousness
                        that she was,for want of a milder term,a "marked woman."
                    She was thoroughly acquainted with every detail connected with the extensive
                        farms and industries that had been handed down to her. A great deal of her
                        time was devoted to an intelligent and comprehensive interest in the
                        management of the farms. She was never out of touch with conditions. Her
                        tenants respected and admired her; her foremen and superintendents consulted
                        with her as they would not have believed it possible to consult with a
                        woman; her bankers deferred to her.
                    She would have laughed at you if you had suggested  to her that she had more than a grain of business-sense, or
                        ability, or capacity, and yet she was singularly far-sighted and
                        capable,without being in the least aware of it. Her pleasures were not
                        allowed to interfere with her obligations as a landlord, a citizen and a
                        taxpayer. A certain part of each day was set aside for the business of the
                        farms. She repaired bright and early to the little office at the back of the
                        house where her grandfather had worked before her, and there she struggled
                        over accounts, reports, claims,and her cheque-book. And like her grim,
                        silent grandsire, she "rode" the lanes that twined through
                        field and timber,only she rode gaily, blithely, with sunshine in her heart.
                        The darkness was always behind her, never ahead.
                    Courtney undoubtedly had overcome the prejudice his visit to Quill's
                        Window had inspired in her. They never spoke of that first encounter. It was
                        as a closed book between them. He had forgotten the incident. At any rate,
                        he had put it out of his mind. He sometimes wondered, however, if she would
                        ever invite him to accompany her to the top of that forbidden hill. In their
                        rambles they had passed the closed gate on more than one occasion. The
                        words, "No Trespass," still met the eye. Some day he would
                        suggest an adventure: the descent to the cave in quest of treasure! The two
                        of them! Rope ladder and all! It would be great fun!
                    He was assiduous in his efforts to amuse her house guests. He laid himself
                        out to be entertaining. If he resented the presence of young men from the
                        city, he managed to conceal his feelings remarkably well. On one point he
                        was firm: he would not accompany her on  any
                        of her trips to the city. Once she had invited him to motor in with her to a
                        tea, and another time she offered to drive him about the city and out to the
                        college on a sight-seeing tour. It was then that he said he was determined
                        to obey "doctor's orders." No city streets for
                        him! Even she couldn't entice him! He loved every
                        inch of this charming, restful spot,every tree and every stone,and he would
                        not leave it until the time came for him to go away forever.
                    He was very well satisfied with the fruits of this apparently ungracious
                        refusal. She went to the city less frequently than before, and only when it
                        was necessary. This, he decided, was significant. It could have but one
                        meaning.
                    Her dog, Sergeant, did not like him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    A MID-OCTOBER DAY
                    ONE chilly, rainy afternoon in mid-October Courtney appeared at the house on
                        the knoll half an hour earlier than was his custom. Alix was expecting
                        friends down from the city for tea. From the hall where he was removing his
                        raincoat he had a fair view through an open door of the north end of the
                        long living-room. Logs were blazing merrily in the fireplace. Alix was
                        standing before the fire, tearing a sheet of paper into small pieces. She
                        was angry. She threw rather than dropped the bits of paper into the
                        flames,unmistakably she was furious. He waited a moment before entering the
                        room. Her back was toward him. She turned in response to his discreet cough.
                        Even in the dim light that filtered in from the grey, leaden day outside, he
                        could detect the heightened colour in her cheeks, and as he advanced he saw
                        that her eyes were wet with illy-suppressed tears. She bit her lip and
                        forced a smile.
                    He possessed the philanderer's tact. There was nothing in his manner
                        to indicate that he noticed anything unusual. He greeted her cheerfully and
                        then, affecting a shiver, passed on to spread his hands out over the fire.
                    "This is great," he exclaimed, his back to her. He was
                        giving her a chance to compose herself. "Nothing like a big log
                        fire to warm the cockles of your heart,although it isn't my heart
                        that needs warming. Moreover,  I
                        don't know what cockles are. I must look 'em up in the
                        dictionary. Come here, Sergeant,there's a good dog! Come over and
                        get warm, old fellow. Toast your cockles. By Jove, Miss Crown,
                        isn't he ever going to make friends with me?"
                    "They are 'one man' dogs, Mr. Thane," she
                        replied. "Come, Sergeant,if you're going to be impolite
                        you must leave the room. Excuse me a moment. Sergeant! Do you hear me, sir?
                        Come!"
                    The big grey dog followed her slowly, reluctantly, from the room. Courtney
                        heard her going up the stairs.
                    "That nasty brute is going to take a bite out of me some
                        day," he muttered under his breath. "Fat chance
                        I'd have to kiss her with that beast around."
                    He heard the closing of an upstairs door. His thoughts were still of the
                        police dog.
                    "There's one thing sure," he said to himself.
                        "That dog and I can't live in the same house."
                        Then his thoughts rose swiftly to that upstairs room,he was sure it was a
                        dainty, inviting room,to picture her before the mirror erasing all visible
                        evidence of agitation. He found himself wondering what it was that caused
                        this exhibition of temper. A letter? Of course,a letter. A letter that
                        contained something she resented, something that infuriated her. A personal
                        matter, not a business one. She would not have treated a business matter in
                        such a way. He knew her too well for that. The leaping flames gave no hint
                        of what they had destroyed. Was it an anonymous letter? Had it anything to
                        do with him?
                    His eye fell upon several envelopes on the library table. After a
                        moment's hesitation and a quick glance toward the door, he strode
                        over to inspect them. They  were all unopened.
                        Two were postmarked Chicago, one New York; on the others the postmarks were
                        indistinct. The handwriting was feminine on most of them. A narrow, folded
                        slip of paper lay a little detached from the letters. He picked it up and
                        quickly opened it. It proved to be a check on a Philadelphia bank. A glance
                        sufficed to show that it was for two hundred and fifty dollars, payable to
                        the order of Alix Crown, and signed "D. W. Strong."
                    The door upstairs was opened and closed. Replacing the bit of paper on the
                        table, he resumed his position before the fire. Quite a different Alix
                        entered the room a few seconds later. She was smiling, her eyes were soft
                        and tranquil. All traces of the passing tempest were gone.
                    "Sit down,draw this big chair up to the fire,do. It is raw and nasty today, isn't it? I think the Mallons are
                        coming out in an open car. Isn't it too bad?"
                    "Bad for the curls," he drawled. "Mind if I
                        smoke?"
                    "Certainly not. Don't you know that by this time?"
                    He had drawn a chair up beside hers. Her reply afforded him a very definite
                        sense of elation.
                    "It seems to me that the world is getting to be a rather heavenly
                        place to live in," he said, and there was a trace of real feeling
                        in his voice. "You don't mind my saying it's
                        entirely due to you, do you?"
                    "Not in the least," she said calmly. "Charlie
                        Webster once paraphrased a time-honoured saying. He said 'In the
                        fall an old man's fancy slightly turns to thoughts of
                        comfort.' I sha'n't deprive my fireplace  and my big armchair of their just due by
                        believing a word of what you say."
                    He tossed the match into the fire, drew in a deep breath of smoke, settled
                        himself comfortably in the chair before exhaling, and then remarked:
                    "But I don't happen to be an old man. I happen to be a
                        rather young one,and a very truthful one to boot."
                    "Do you always tell the truth?"
                    He grinned. "More or less always," was his reply.
                        "I never lie in October."
                    "And the other eleven months of the year?"
                    "Oh, I merely change the wording. In July I say 'I never
                        lie in July,'and so on throughout the twelve-month. I
                        don't slight a single month. By the by, I hope I didn't
                        pop in too far ahead of time this afternoon. You asked me to come at four.
                        I'm half an hour early. Were you occupied with anything"
                    "I was not busy. A few letters,but they can wait." He
                        caught the faint shadow of a cloud as it flitted across her eyes.
                        "They are all personal,nothing important in any of them, I am
                        sure."
                    She shot a quick glance at the folded check and, arising abruptly, went over
                        to the table where, with apparent unconcern, she ran through the little pile
                        of letters. He saw her pick up the check and thrust it into the pocket of
                        her sport skirt. Then she returned to the fireplace. The cloud was on her
                        brow again as she stared darkly into the crackling flames. He knew now that
                        it was Strong's letter she had destroyed in anger. He would have
                        given much to know what the man she despised so heartily had written to her.
                             If he could have seen that brief note he
                        would have read: 
                            
                                
                                    DEAR ALIX:
                                    
                                    I enclose my checque for two-fifty. If all goes well I hope
                                        to clean up the indebtedness by the first of the year. In
                                        any case, I am sure it can be accomplished by early spring.
                                        You may thank the flu for my present prosperity. It has been
                                        pretty bad here in the East again, although not so virulent
                                        as before. Please credit me with the amount. This leaves me
                                        owing you five hundred dollars. It should not take long to
                                        wipe it out entirely, interest and all.
                                    Sincerely yours, DAVID.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Courtney eyed her narrowly as she stood for a moment looking into the fire
                        before resuming her seat. He realized that her thoughts were far away and
                        that they were not pleasant.
                    "It's queer," he said presently, "that
                        you have never learned to smoke."
                    She started slightly at the sound of his voice. As she turned to sit down, he
                        went on:
                    "Almost every girl I know smokes. I will not say that I like to see
                        it,especially in restaurants and all that sort of thing,but it's
                        rather jolly if there's a nice, cosy fire like this,see what I
                        mean? Sort of intimate, and friendly, andsoothing. Don't you want
                        to try one now?"
                    "Thank you, no. If it weren't so shocking, I think I should
                        like to learn how to smoke a pipe,but I suppose that isn't to be
                        thought of. Somehow I feel that a pipe might be a pal, a good old stand-by,
                        or even a relative,something to depend upon in all sorts of  weather, fair and foul. I've noticed
                        that the men on the place who smoke pipes appear to be contented and jolly
                        and good humoured,and efficient. Yes, I think I should like to smoke a
                        pipe."
                    "Would you like me better if I cut out the cigarettes, and took up
                        the pipe of peaceand contentment?" he inquired thoughtfully.
                    "I doubt it," she replied, smiling. "I
                        can't imagine you smoking a pipe."
                    "Is that supposed to be flattering or scornful?"
                    "Neither. It is an impression, that's all."
                    He frowned slightly. "I used to smoke a pipe,in college, you know.
                        Up to my sophomore year. It was supposed to indicate maturity. But I
                        don't believe I'd have the courage to tackle one now, Miss
                        Crown. Not since that little gas experience over there. You see, my throat
                        isn't what it was in those good old freshman days. Pipe smoke,you
                        may even say tobacco smoke, for heaven only knows what these cigarettes are
                        made of,pipe smoke is too strong. My throat is so confounded sensitive
                        Iwell, I'd probably cough my head off. That beastly gas made a
                        coward of me, I fear. You've no idea what it does to a
                        fellow's throat and lungs. If I live to be a thousand years old,
                        I'll never forget the tortures I went through for weeks,yes, ages.
                        Every breath was like a knife cutting the veryBut what a stupid fool I am!
                        Distressing you with all these wretched details. Please forgive
                        me."
                    She was looking at him wonderingly. "You are so different from the
                        poor fellows I saw in New York," she said slowly. "I mean
                        the men who had been gassed and shell-shocked. I saw loads of them in the
                        hospitals, you know,and talked with them. I was always tremendously  affected by their silence, their moodiness,
                        their unwillingness to speak of what they had been through. The other men,
                        the ones who had lost legs or arms or even their eyes,were as a rule
                        cheerful and as chatty as could be,oh, how my heart used to ache for
                        them,but the shell-shock men and the men who had been gassed, why, it was
                        impossible to get them to talk about themselves. I have seen some of them
                        since then. They are apparently well and strong, and yet not one word can
                        you get out of them about their sufferings. You are almost unique, Mr.
                        Thane. I am glad you feel disposed to talk about it all. It is a good sign.
                        It"
                    "I didn't say much about it at first," he
                        interrupted hurriedly. "Moreover, Miss Crown," he went on,
                        "a lot of those chaps,the majority of them, in fact,worked that
                        dodge for all it was worth. It was a deliberate pose with them. They had to
                        act that way or people wouldn't think they'd been hurt at
                        all. Bunk, most of it."
                    "I don't believe that, Mr. Thane. I saw too many of them.
                        The ones with whom I came in contact certainly were not trying to deceive
                        anybody. They were in a pitiable condition, every last one of
                        them,pitiable."
                    "I do not say that all of them were shamming,but I am convinced that
                        a great many of them were."
                    "The doctors report that the shell-shock cases"
                    "Ah, the doctors!" he broke in, shrugging his shoulders.
                        "They were all jolly good fellows. All you had to do was to even
                        hint that you'd been knocked over by a shell that exploded two
                        hundred yards away andzip! they'd send you back for repairs. As for
                        myself,  the only reason I didn't
                        like to talk about my condition at first was because it hurt my throat and
                        lungs. It wasn't because I was afflicted with this heroic
                        melancholy they talk so much about. I was mighty glad to be alive. I
                        couldn't see anything to mope about,certainly not after I found out
                        I wasn't going to die."
                    "I daresay there were others who took it as you did. I wish there
                        could have been more."
                    He hesitated a moment before speaking again. Then he hazarded the question:
                    "What does your friend, Dr. Strong, have to say about the general
                        run of such cases?"
                    "I don't know. I have not seen Dr. Strong since the war
                        ended."
                    He looked mildly surprised. "Hasn't he been home since the
                        war?"
                    "I believe-so. I was away at the time."
                    "How long was he in France?"
                    "He went over first in 1916 and again in the fall of 1917, and
                        remained till the end of the war. His mother is here with me, you
                        know."
                    "Yes, I know. By Jove, I envy him one thing,lucky dog." She
                        remained silent. "You were playmates, weren't
                        you?"
                    "Yes," she said, lifting her chin slightly.
                    "Well, that's why I envy him. To have been your playmate,
                        Why, I envy him every minute of his boyhood. When I think of my own boyhood
                        and how little there was to it that a real boy should have, IIconfound it, I
                        almost find myself hating chaps like Strong, chaps who lived in the country
                        and had regular pals, and girl sweethearts, and went fishing and hunting,
                        and played hookey as it ought to be played, and grew up  with something fine and sweet and wholesome to look back
                        upon,and to have had you for a playmate,maybe a sweetheart,you in short
                        frocks, with your hair in pigtails, barefooted in summertime,
                        running"
                    She interrupted him. "Your imagination is at fault there, Mr.
                        Thane," she said, smiling once more. "I never went
                        barefooted in my life."
                    "At any rate, he did. And he played all sorts of
                        games with you; he"
                    "My impression of David Strong is that he was a boy's
                        boy," she broke in rather stiffly. "His games were with
                        the boys of the town,and they were rough games. Football, baseball, shinney,
                        circus,things like that."
                    "I don't mean sports, Miss Crown. I was thinking of those
                        wonderful boy and girl games,such as 'playing house,'
                        'getting married,'
                        'hide-and-go-seek,'all that sort of thing."
                    "Yes, I know," she admitted. "We often played at
                        getting married, and we had very large but inanimate families, and we
                        quarrelled like real married people, and I used to cry and take my
                        playthings home, and he used to stand outside our fence and makes faces at
                        me till I hated him ferociously. But all that was when we were very small,
                        you see."
                    "And as all such things turn out, I suppose he grew up and went off
                        and got married to some one else."
                    "He is not married, Mr. Thane."
                    "Well, for that matter, neither are you," said he, leaning
                        forward, his eyes fixed intently on hers. She did not flinch. "I
                        wonder just how you feel toward him today, Miss Crown."
                    She was incapable of coquetry. "We are not the  best of friends," she said quietly. "Now, if
                        you please, let us talk of something else. Did I tell you that an old
                        Ambulance man is coming down for a day or two next week? A Harvard man who
                        lives in Chicago. His sister and I went to New York together to take our
                        chances there on getting over to France. I think I've told you
                        about her,Mary Blythe?"
                    "Blythe?" repeated Courtney thoughtfully. "Blythe.
                        Seems to me I heard of a chap named Blythe over there in the Ambulance, but
                        I don't remember whether I ran across him anywhere or not. He may
                        have been after my time, however. I was with the Ambulance in '15
                        and the early part of '16, you see."
                    "Addison Blythe. He was afterwards a Field Artillery captain.
                        I've known Mary Blythe for years, but I know him very slightly. He
                        went direct from Harvard to France, you see."
                    "What section was he with?"
                    "I don't know. I only know he was at Pont-a-Mousson for
                        several months. You were there too at one time, I remember. I've
                        heard him speak of the Bois le Pretre. You may have been there at the same
                        time."
                    "Hardly possible. I should have known him in that case. My section
                        was sent up to Bar le Duc just before the first big Verdun battle."
                    "Why, he was all through the first battle of Verdun. His section was
                        transferred from Pont-a-Mousson at an hour's notice. Were there
                        more than one section at Pont-a-Mousson?"
                    "I don't know how they were fixed after I left. You see, I
                        was trying to get into the aviation end of the game along about that time. I
                        was in an aviation camp for a couple of months, but went back to the
                        Ambulance  just before the Verdun scrap. They
                        slapped me into another section, of course. I used to see fellows from my
                        own section occasionally, but I don't recall any one named Blythe.
                        He probably was sent up while I was at Toul,or it may have been during the
                        time I was with a section in the Vosges. I was up near Dunkirk too for a
                        while,only for a few weeks. When did you say he was coming?"
                    "Next Tuesday. They are stopping off on their way to attend a
                        wedding in Louisville. You two will have a wonderful time
                        reminiscing."
                    "Blythe. I'll rummage around in my memory and see if I can
                        place him. There was a fellow named Bright up there at one time,at least I
                        got the name as Bright. It may have been Blythe. I'll be tickled to
                        death to meet him, Miss Crown."
                    "You will love Mary Blythe. She is a darling."
                    "I may be susceptible, Miss Crown, but I am not
                        inconstant," said he, with a gallant bow.
                    She was annoyed with herself for blushing.
                    "Will you throw another log or two on the fire, please?"
                        she said, arising. "I think I hear a car coming up the drive. The
                        poor Mallons will be chilled to the bone."
                    He smiled to himself as he took the long hickory logs from the wood box and
                        placed them carefully on the fire. He had seen the swift flood of colour
                        mount to her cheeks, and the odd little waver in her eyes before she turned
                        them away. She was at the window, looking out, when he straightened himself
                        and gingerly brushed the wood dust from his hands. Instead of joining her,
                        he remained with his back to the fire, his feet spread apart, his hands in
                        his coat pockets, comforting himself  with the
                        thought that she was wondering why he had not followed her. It was, he
                        rejoiced, a very clever bit of strategy on his part. He waited for her to
                        turn away from the window and say, with well-assumed perplexity: "I
                        was sure I heard a car, Mr. Thane."
                    And that is exactly what she did say after a short interval, adding:
                    "It must have been the wind in the chimney."
                    "Very likely," he agreed.
                    She remained at the window. He held his position before the fire.
                    "If I were just a plain damned fool," he was saying to
                        himself, "I'd rush over there and spoil everything.
                        It's too soon,too soon. She's not ready yet,not
                        ready."
                    Alix, looking out across the porch into the grey drizzle that drenched the
                        lawn, thrust her hand into her skirt pocket and, clutching the bit of paper
                        in her fingers, crumpled it into a small ball. Her eyes were serene,
                        however, as she turned away and walked back to the fireplace.
                    "I don't believe they are coming, after all. I think they
                        might have telephoned," she said, glancing up at the old French
                        ormula clock on the mantelpiece. "Half-past four. We will wait a
                        few minutes longer and then have tea."
                    His heart gave a sudden thump. Was it possiblebut no! She would not stoop to
                        anything like that. The little thrill of exultation departed as quickly as
                        it came.
                    "Tire trouble, perhaps," he ventured.
                    Tea was being brought in when the belated guests arrived. Courtney, spurred
                        by the brief vision of success  ahead, was
                        never in better form, never more entertaining, never so well provided with
                        polite cynicisms. Later on, when he and Alix were alone and he was putting
                        on his raincoat in the hall, she said to him impulsively:
                    "I don't know what I should have done without you, Mr.
                        Thane. You were splendid. I was in no mood to be nice or agreeable to
                        anybody."
                    "Alas!" he sighed. "That shows how unobserving I
                        am. I could have sworn you were in a perfectly adorable mood."
                    "Well, I wasn't," she said stubbornly. "I
                        was quite horrid."
                    "Has anything happened toto distress you, Miss Crown?" he
                        inquired anxiously. His voice was husky and a trifle unsteady.
                        "Can't you tell me? Sometimes it helps to"
                    "Nothing has happened," she interrupted nervously.
                        "I wasjust stupid, that's all."
                    "When am I to see you again?" he asked, after a perceptible
                        pause. "May I come tonight?"
                    "Not tonight," she said, shaking her head.
                    She gave no reason,nothing more than the two little words,and yet he went
                        away exulting. He walked home through the light, gusty rain, so elated that
                        he forgot to use his cane,and he had limped quite painfully earlier in the
                        afternoon, complaining of the dampness and chill. He had the habit of
                        talking to himself when walking alone in the darkness. He thought aloud:
                    "She wants to be alone,she wants to think. She has suddenly
                        realized. She is frightened. She doesn't understand. She is
                        bewildered. She doesn't want to  see
                        me tonight. Bless her heart! I'll bet my head she doesn't
                        sleep a wink. And tomorrow? Tomorrow I shall see her. But not a word, not a
                        sign out of me. Not tomorrow or next day or the day after that. Keep her
                        thinking, keep her guessing, keep her wondering whether I really care.
                        Pretty soon she'll realize how miserable she is,and
                    then!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE CHIMNEY CORNER
                    
                        A LINCOLN POLLOCK was full of news at supper that evening. Courtney,
                            coming in a little late,in fact, Miss Margaret Slattery already had
                            removed the soup plates and was beginning to wonder audibly whether a
                            certain guy thought she was a truck-horse or something like that,found
                            the editor of the Sun anticipating by at least twelve
                            hours the forthcoming issue of his paper. He was regaling his
                            fellow-boarders with news that would be off the press the first thing in
                            the morning,having been confined to the composing-room for the better
                            part of a week,and he was enjoying himself. Charlie Webster once made
                            the remark that "every time the Sun goes to
                            press, Link Pollock acts for all the world like a hen that's
                            just laid an egg, he cackles so."
                        "I saw Nancy Strong this morning and she was telling me about a
                            letter she had from David yesterday. He wants her to pack up and come to
                            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to live with him. He says he'll
                            take a nice little apartment, big enough for the two of 'em, if
                            she'll only come. She can't make up her mind what to
                            do. She's so fond of Alix she don't see how she can
                            desert her,at least, not till she gets married,and yet she feels she
                            owes it to her son to go and make a home for him. Every once in a while
                            Alix makes her  a present of a hundred
                            dollars or so,once she gave her three hundred in cold, clean cash,and
                            actually loves her as if she was her own mother. Nancy's
                            terribly upset. She is devoted to Alix, and at the same time
                            she's devoted to her son. She seemed to want my advice, but of
                            course I couldn't give her any. It's a thing
                            she's got to work out for herself. I couldn't advise
                            her to leave Alix in the lurch and I couldn't advise her to
                            turn her back on her only son,could I?"
                        "How soon does David want her to come?" inquired Miss
                            Molly Dowd.
                        "Before Christmas, I believe. He wants her to be with him on
                            Christmas day."
                        "Well, it would work out very nicely," said Mrs.
                            Pollock, "if Alix would only get married before that
                            time."
                        "I guess that's just what Nancy is kind of hoping
                            herself," stated Mr. Pollock. "It would simplify
                            everything. Of course, when she told Alix about David's letter
                            and what he wanted her to do, Alix was mighty nice about it. She told
                            Nancy to go by all means, her place was with her son if he needed her,
                            and she wouldn't stand in the way for the world. Nancy says she
                            had about made up her mind to go, but changed it last night. She was
                            telling me about sneaking up to Alix's bedroom door and
                            listening. Alix was crying, sort of sobbing, you know. That settled it
                            with Nancy,temporarily at any rate. Now she's up in the air
                            again, and don't know what to do. She's gone and told
                            Alix she won't leave her, but all the time she keeps wondering
                            if Davy can get along without her in that great big city, surrounded by
                            all kinds of perils and traps and pitfalls,night and day. Evil women
                            and"
                        
                        "Has Alix said anything to you about it, Mr. Thane?"
                            inquired Maude Baggs Pollock.
                        "Not a word," replied Courtney, secretly irritated by
                            the discovery that Alix had failed to take him into her confidence.
                            "She doesn't discuss servant troubles with
                            me."
                        "Oh, good gracious!" cried Miss Dowd. "If
                            Nancy Strong ever heard you speak of her as a servant
                            she'd"
                        "She'd bite your head off," put in Miss
                            Margaret Slattery. "Are you through with your soup, Mr.
                            Thane?" Without waiting for an answer, she removed the plate
                            with considerable abruptness.
                        "Are you angry with me, Margaret?" he asked, with a
                            reproachful smile. His smile was too much for Margaret. She blushed and
                            mumbled something about being sorry and having a headache.
                        "Say, Court, do you know this Ambulance feller that's
                            coming to visit Alix next week?" asked the editor, with
                            interest.
                        "You mean Addison Blythe? He was up at Pont-a-Mousson for a
                            while, I believe, but it was after I had left for the Vosges section.
                            I've heard of him. Harvard man."
                        "You two ought to have a good time when you get
                            together," said Doc Simpson.
                        "I've got an item in the Sun about
                            him this week, and next week we'll have an interview with
                            him."
                        The usually loquacious Mr. Webster had been silent since
                            Courtney's arrival. Now he lifted his voice to put a question
                            to Miss Angie Miller, across the table.
                        "Did you write that letter I spoke about the other day,
                            Angie?"
                        
                        "Yes,but there hasn't been time for an answer
                            yet."
                        "Speaking about David Strong," remarked Mr. Pollock,
                            "I'll never forget what he did when Mr. Windom gave
                            him a silver watch for his twelfth birthday. Shows what a bright,
                            progressive, enterprising feller he was even at that age. You remember,
                            Miss Molly? I mean about his setting his watch fifteen minutes ahead the
                            very day he got it."
                        Miss Molly smiled. "It was cute of him,
                            wasn't it?"
                        "What was the idea?" inquired Mr. Hatch.
                        "So's he would know what time it was fifteen minutes
                            sooner than anybody else in town," said Mr. Pollock.
                        "My, what a handsome boy he was," said Miss Angie
                            Miller.
                        "Do you really think so?" cried Mrs. Pollock.
                            "I never could see anything good looking about him,except his
                            physique. He has a splendid physique, but I never liked his face.
                            It's sosowell, so, raw-boned and all. I like smooth, regular
                            features in a man. I"
                        "Like mine," interjected the pudgy Mr. Webster, with a
                            very serious face.
                        "David Strong has what I call a very rugged face," said
                            Miss Miller. "I didn't say it was pretty,
                            Maude."
                        "He takes a very good photograph," remarked Mr. Hatch.
                            "Specially a side-view. I've got one side-view of him
                            over at the gallery that makes me think of an Indian every time I look
                            at it."
                        "Perhaps he has Indian blood in him," suggested
                            Courtney, who was tried of David Strong.
                        "Well, every drop of blood he's got in him is
                            red," said Charlie Webster; "so maybe you're
                            right."
                        
                        "The most interesting item in the Sun
                            tomorrow," said Mr. Pollock, "is the word that young
                            Cale Vick, across the river, has enlisted in the navy. He leaves on
                            Monday for Chicago to join some sort of a training school, preparatory
                            to taking a job on one of Uncle Sam's newest battleships,the
                            biggest in the world, according to his grandfather, who was in to see me
                            a day or two ago. I have promised to send young Cale the Sun for a year without charging him a cent. Old man Brown says
                            Amos Vick's daughter Rosabel isn't at all well.
                            Something like walking typhoid, he says,mopes a good deal and
                            don't sleep well."
                        "Oh, I'm sorry to hear that," exclaimed
                            Courtney, real concern in his voice. "She was such a lively,
                            light-hearted girl when I was over there. I can't imagine her
                            moping. I hope Amos Vick isn't too close-fisted to consult a
                            doctor. He's an awful tight-wadbelieve me."
                        "Doctor can't seem to find anything really the matter
                            with her, so old Cale Brown told me," said Mr. Pollock.
                            "But don't you think it's fine of young Cale
                            to join the navy, Court? Maybe your tales about the war put it into his
                            head."
                        "It's more likely that he'd got fed up with
                            life on a farm," said Courtney. "He'll find
                            himself longing for the farm and mother a good many times before
                            he's through with the navy."
                        Instead of going up to his room immediately after supper, as was his
                            custom of late, Courtney joined the company in the "lounging
                            room," so named by Mr. Webster who contended that no
                            first-class hotel ever had such a thing as a parlour any more. The
                            Misses Dowd, of course, called it the parlour, but as they continued  to refer to the fireplace as the
                            "chimney corner," one may readily forgive their
                            reluctance to progress. Smoking was permitted in the "lounging
                            room" during the fall and winter months only.
                        A steady rain was beating against the windows, and a rising wind made
                            itself heard in feeble wails as it turned the dark corners of the
                            Tavern. Presently it was to howl and shriek, and, as the rain ceased, to
                            rattle the window shutters and the ancient, creaking sign that hung out
                            over the porch,for on the wind tonight came the first chill touch of
                            winter.
                        "A fine night to be indoors," remarked Courtney in his
                            most genial manner as he moved a rocking chair up to the fireplace and
                            gallantly indicated to old Mrs. Nichols that it was intended for her.
                        "Ain't you going out tonight, Court?" inquired
                            Mr. Hatch.
                        "Iron horses couldn't drag me out tonight," he
                            replied. "Sit here, Mrs. Pollock. Doc, pull up that sofa for
                            Miss Grady and Miss Miller. Let's have a chimney-corner
                            symposium. Is symposium the right word, Miss Miller? Ah, I see it
                            isn't. Well, I did my best. I could have got away with it in
                            New York, but no chance here. And speaking of New York reminds me that
                            at this very instant the curtains are going up and the lights are going
                            down in half a hundred theatres,and I don't mind confessing
                            I'd like to be in one of them."
                        "That's one thing I envy New York for," said
                            Mrs. Pollock. "Hand me my knitting off the table, Lincoln,
                            please. I love the theatre. I could go every night"
                        "You get tired of them after a little while, Maude,"
                            said Flora Grady, a trifle languidly. "Isn't that so,
                            Mr. Thane?"
                        
                        "Quite," agreed Courtney. "You get fed up with
                            'em."
                        "I remember once when I was in New York going six nights in
                            succession, seeing all the best things on the boards at that time, and I
                            give you my word," said Miss Grady, "they did feed me up terribly."
                        "I know just what you mean, Miss Grady," said Courtney,
                            without cracking a smile. "One gets so bored with the best
                            plays in town. What one really ought to do, you know, is to go to the
                            worst ones."
                        "I've always wanted to see 'The Blue
                            Bird,'" said Miss Miller wistfully.
                            "It's by Maeterlinck, Mr. Nichols."
                        Old Mr. Nichols looked interested. "You don't say
                            so," he ejaculated. "Give me a good minstrel
                            show,that's what I like. Haverly's or Barlow, Wilson,
                            Primrose & West, or Billy Emerson's orsay, did you ever
                            see Luke Schoolcraft? Well, sir, there was the funniest end man I ever
                            see. There used to be another minstrel man named,erlemme see,now what
                            was that feller's name? It begin with L, I thinkor maybe it was
                            W. Nowlemmethink. Go on talkin', the rest of you. I'll
                            think of his name before bedtime." Whereupon the ancient Mr.
                            Nichols relapsed into a profound state of thought from which he did not
                            emerge until Mr. Webster shook his shoulder some fifteen or twenty
                            minutes later and informed him that if he got any worse Mrs. Nichols
                            would be able to hear him, and then she couldn't go
                            'round telling people that he slept just like a baby.
                        Courtney was in his element. He liked talking about the stage, and stage
                            people. And on this night,of all nights,he wanted to talk, he wanted
                            company. The  clock on the mantel-piece
                            struck ten and half-past and was close to striking eleven before any one
                            made a move toward retiring,excepting Mr. and Mrs. Nichols who had gone
                            off to bed at eight-thirty. The Misses Dowd had joined the little
                            company in the "parlour." He discussed books with Mrs.
                            Pollock and Miss Miller, fashions with Miss Grady, politics with Mr.
                            Pollock,(agreeing with the latter on President Wilson),art with Mr.
                            Hatch and the erudite Miss Miller, the drama with every one.
                        Now, Courtney Thane knew almost nothing about books, and even less about
                            pictures. He possessed, however, a remarkable facility when it came to
                            discussing them. He belonged to that rather extensive class of people
                            who thrive on ignorance. If you wanted to talk about Keats or Shelley,
                            he managed to give you the impression that he was thoroughly familiar
                            with both,though lamenting a certain rustiness of memory at times. He
                            could talk intelligently about Joseph Conrad, Arnold Bennet, Bernard
                            Shaw, Galsworthy, Walpole, Mackenzie, Wells and others of the modern
                            English school of novelists,that is to say, he could differ or agree
                            with you on almost anything they had written, notwithstanding the fact
                            that he had never read a line by any one of them. He professed not to
                            care for Thomas Hardy's "Jude the Obscure,"
                            though nothing could have been more obscure to him than the book itself
                            or the author thereof, and agreed with the delightful Mrs. Pollock that
                            "The Mayor of Casterbridge" was an infinitely better
                            piece of work than "Tess of the
                            D'Urbervilles." As for the American writers, he
                            admitted a shameful ignorance about them.
                        "Of course, I read Scott when I was a boy,I was  compelled to do so, by the way,but as for
                            the others I am shockingly unfamiliar with them. Ever since I grew up
                            I've preferred the English novelists and poets, so I fear
                            I"
                        "I thought Scott was an English writer," put in Charlie
                            Webster quietly.
                        "What Scott are you referring to, Charlie?" he asked
                            indulgently.
                        "Why, Sir Walter Scott,he wrote 'Ivanhoe,' you
                            know."
                        "Well, I happen to be speaking of William Scott, the American
                            novelist,no doubt unknown to most of you. He was one of the old-timers,
                            and I fancy has dropped out of the running altogether."
                        "Never heard of him," said Mr. Pollock, scratching his
                            ear reflectively.
                        "Indigenous to New England, I fancy,like the estimable
                            codfish," drawled Courtney, and was rewarded by a wholesome
                            Middle West laugh.
                        "What are those cabarets like?" inquired Mr. Hatch. He
                            pronounced it as if he were saying cigarettes.
                        "Pretty rotten," said Thane.
                        "Are you fond of dancing, Mr. Thane?" inquired Mrs.
                            Pollock. "I used to love to trip the light fantastic."
                        "I am very fond of dancing," said he, and then added
                            with a smile: "Especially since the girls have taken to parking
                            their corsets."
                        There was a shocked silence, broken by Miss Grady, who, as a dressmaker,
                            was not quite so finicky about the word.
                        "What do you mean by parking?" she inquired.
                        
                        "Same as you park an automobile," said he, enjoying the
                            sensation he had created. "It's the fashion now, among
                            the best families as well as the worst, for the girls when they go to
                            dances to leave their corsets in the dressing rooms. Check 'em,
                            same as you do your hat."
                        "Bless my soul," gasped Mr. Pollock.
                            "Haven't they got any mothers?"
                        "Sure,but the mothers don't know anything about it. You
                            see, it's this way. We fellows won't dance with
                            'em if they've got corsets on,so off they
                            come."
                        "What's the world coming to?" cried the
                            editor.
                        "You'd better ask where it's going
                            to," said Charlie Webster.
                        "Do you go to the opera very often?" asked Miss Miller
                            nervously.
                        He spoke rather loftily of the Metropolitan Opera House, and very lightly
                            of the Metropolitan Museum,and gave Charlie Webster a sharp look when
                            that amiable gentleman asked him what he thought of the Metropolitan
                            Tower.
                        But he was at home in the theatre. He told them just what Maude Adams and
                            Ethel Barrymore were like, and Julia Marlowe, and Elsie Ferguson, and
                            Chrystal Herne, and all the rest of them. He spoke familiarly of Mr.
                            Faversham as "Favvy," of Mr. Collier as
                            "Willie," of Mr. Sothern as "Ned,"
                            of Mr. Drew as "John," of Mr Skinner as
                            "Otis," of Mr. Frohman as "Dan."
                        And when he said good night and reluctantly wended his way to the room at
                            the end of the hall, round the corner of which the fierce October gale
                            shrieked derisively, he left behind him a group enthralled.
                        
                        "Isn't he a perfect dear?" cried Mrs. Pollock,
                            clasping her hands.
                        "The most erudite man I have ever met," agreed Miss
                            Miller ecstatically. "Don't you think so, Mr.
                            Hatch?"
                        Mr. Hatch was startled. "Oh,eryes, indeed. Absolutely!"
                            he stammered, and then looked inquiringly at his finger nails. He hoped
                            he had made the proper response.
                        Charlie Webster ambled over to one of the windows and peered out into the
                            whistling night.
                        "It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good,"
                            said he sententiously.
                        "What do you mean by that, Charlie?" inquired Flora
                            Grady, at his elbow.
                        "Well, if it had been a pleasant night he'd have been
                            up at Alix Crown's instead of here," said Charlie.
                        "I see," said Flora, after a moment. "You mean
                            the ill wind favoured Alix, eh?"
                        Charlie's round face was unsmiling as he stared hard at the
                            fire.
                        "I wonder" he began, and then checked the words.
                        "Don't you worry about Alix," said Flora.
                            "She's nobody's fool."
                        "I wasn't thinking of Alix just then," said
                            Charlie.
                    
                    
                        II
                        The following morning, Courtney went, as was his custom, to the
                            postoffice. He had arranged for a lock-box there. His letters were not
                            brought up to the Tavern by old Jim House, the handy-man.
                        The day was bright and clear and cold; the gale  had died in the early morning hours. Alix Crown's
                            big automobile was standing in front of the postoffice, the engine
                            running. Catching sight of it as he left the Tavern porch, he hastened
                            his steps. He was a good two hundred yards away and feared she would be
                            off before he could come up with her. As he drew near, he saw the lanky
                            chaufferur standing in front of the drug store, chatting with one of the
                            villagers.
                        Alix was in the postoffice. As he passed the car, he slackened his pace
                            and glanced over his shoulder into the tonneau. The side curtains were
                            down. A low growl greeted him. He hastened on.
                        She was at the registry window.
                        "Hello!" he exclaimed, extending his hand and searching
                            her face as he did so for signs of a sleepless night.
                        "Good morning," she responded cheerily. There was
                            nothing in her voice, her eyes or her manner to indicate an even
                            remotely disturbed state of mind. Her gaze met his serenely; the colour
                            did not rush to her cheeks as he had fondly expected, nor did her eyes
                            waver under the eager, intense gleam in his. He suddenly felt cheated.
                        "Where are you off to this morning?" he inquired.
                        "To town for the day. I have some business to attend to and some
                            shopping to do. Would you like to come along?"
                        He was in a sulky mood.
                        "You know I hate the very thought of going to town," he
                            said. Then, as she raised her eyebrows slightly, --
                            made haste to add: "I'd go from one end of the desert
                            of Sahara to the other with you, but" shaking his head so
                            solemnly that she laughed outright, 
                            "not to the city. Just ask me to go to the Sahara with you and
                            see how"
                        "Haven't you had enough of No-Man's
                            Land?" she cried merrily.
                        "It depends on what you'd call No-Man's
                            Land," said he, and her gaze faltered at last. There was no
                            mistaking his meaning. "Sometimes it is Paradise, you
                            know," he went on softly.
                        Twice before she had seen the same look in his eyes, and both times she
                            had experienced a strange sensation, as of the weakness that comes with
                            ecstasy. There had been something in his eyes that seemed to caress her
                            from head to foot, something that filled her with the most disquieting
                            self-consciousness. Strange to say, it was not the ardent look of the
                            love-sick admirer,and she had not escaped such tributes,nor the
                            inquiring look of the adventurous married man. It was not soulful nor
                            was it offensive. She reluctantly confessed to herself that it was warm
                            and penetrating and filled her with a strange, delicious alarm.
                        She quickly withdrew her gaze and turned to the little window where Mrs.
                            Pollock was making out her receipt for a registered package. She felt
                            that she was cowardly, and the thought made her furious.
                        "Will it go out today, Mrs. Pollock?" she asked.
                        "This afternoon," replied the postmaster's
                            wife and assistant. "Wasn't that a dreadful wind last
                            night, Alix? I thought of you. You must have been frightened."
                        "I slept like a log through all of it," said Alix.
                            "I love the wild night wind. It makes me feel so nice and comfy
                            in bed. I was awfully tired last night. Thanks." Then turning
                            to Courtney: "Sorry you will not go with  me. I'll bear you in mind if I ever take a trip
                            to the Sahara. Good-bye."
                        "Will you be at home tonight?" he asked, holding the
                            door open for her to pass through.
                        "Yes," she replied composedly.
                        "I mean,to me?"
                        "If you care to come," she said.
                        He did not accompany her to the car. The big grey-brown dog with his paws
                            on the back of the front seat, was eagerly watching her approach.
                        She wore a long mole-skin coat and a smart little red turban. She had
                            never looked so alluring to the young man who waited in the open door
                            until the car started away.
                        "Close the door, please," called out Mrs. Pollock.
                            "This isn't July, you know."
                        "So she slept like a log, did she?" muttered Courtney
                            as he turned away from his lockbox with a letter. "Well,
                            that's more than I did."
                        He glanced hurriedly through the letter, crumpled it up in his hand, and
                            went jauntily up the street until he came to Hatch's Photograph
                            Gallery. Entering, he gave the proprietor a hearty "good
                            morning," and then drew a chair up before the low
                            "sheet-iron stove" which heated the reception-room.
                            Hatch was "printing" behind a partition, and their
                            conversation was carried on at long range over the top. Presently the
                            visitor drew the crumpled letter from his pocket, tore it into tiny
                            pieces and cast it into the fire.
                        "Well, so long, Hatch. I'm off for a stroll in your
                            crisp October air."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THANE VISITS TWO HOUSES
                    
                        ALL day long Alix was troubled. She could not free her thoughts of that
                            searing look or the spell it had cast over her during the brief instant
                            of contact. She was haunted by it. At times she gave herself up to a
                            reckless, unmaidenly rejoicing in the thrill it had given her; at such
                            times she flushed to the roots of her hair despite the chill of ecstasy
                            that swept over her. But far more often she found herself resenting the
                            liberty his eyes had taken,a mental rather than a physical liberty. She
                            was resolved that it should not happen again.
                        She had posted a note to David Strong that morning. Before the car had
                            covered the first mile on its way to town, she was wishing she had not
                            dropped it into the slot at the postoffice. Only the fear of appearing
                            ridiculous to Mrs. Pollock kept her from turning back to reclaim it. She
                            could not explain this sudden, almost frantic impulse,she did not
                            attempt to account for it. Somehow she sensed that it had to do with the
                            look in Thane's eyes,but it was all so vague and intangible
                            that even the suggestion did not take the form of thought.
                        In this curt little note she had said: 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR DAVID:
                                        
                                        I hereby acknowledge receipt of your cheque No. 372 for
                                            two hundred and fifty dollars, but as I have tried to
                                            make  you understand
                                            before, it is not only an unnecessary but a most
                                            unwelcome bit of paper. You are perfectly well aware
                                            that my grandfather's estate has been settled
                                            and, as I have informed you time and again, your
                                            obligation to him no longer exists. You may have owed
                                            something to him, but you owe nothing to me. If I were
                                            to follow my impulse I should tear up this cheque of
                                            yours. It would be useless to return it to you, for you
                                            would only send it back to me, as you did with the first
                                            two cheques that came last winter. I want you to
                                            understand that I do not accept this money as my own. If
                                            it is any satisfaction to you to know that I give it
                                            away,no matter how,you are welcome to all the
                                            consolation you may get out of it.
                                        Yours truly, ALIX CROWN.
                                            
                                        
                                        P.S.I have advised your mother to go to
                                            Philadelphia whenever you are ready for her to
                                            come.A.
                                        P.S.S.Under separate cover by registered post I am
                                            also returning to you the bracelet you sent me from
                                            Paris. I think I wrote you a long time ago how much I
                                            admired it.A.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Meanwhile, Thane was making the best of a rather empty morning. He put
                            off finishing a letter to his mother, who had returned to New York and
                            was so busy with dressmakers that twice she had employed the telegraph
                            in promising to "write soon,"a letter in which he
                            already had written, among other rapturous passages: "She is
                            positively ravishing, mater dear. I am simply mad about her, and I know
                            you will be too." He was determined that the day should not be
                            a total loss; he would turn at least a portion of it to profit.
                        First of all, he visited Alaska Spigg at the log-hut village library.
                            Miss Spigg was very proud of her geraniums. No one else in
                            Windomville,or in the  world, for that
                            matter, if one were to recall Mr. Pollock's article in the Sun,no one else cultivated such geraniums as those to
                            be seen in the pots that crowned the superinforced windowsills at the
                            library.
                        There was no such thing as a florist's shop in Windomville.
                            Roses or orchids or even carnations were unobtainable. A potted geranium
                            plant, in full bloom,one of Alaska Spigg's tall, sturdy,
                            jealously guarded treasures was the best he could do in the way of a
                            floral offering to his goddess. So he set about the supposedly hopeless
                            task of inducing Alaska to part with one of her plants. Half an hour
                            after entering the library he departed with a balloon shaped object in
                            his arms. He was not too proud to be seen shuffling up the lane with his
                            prize, a huge thing loosely done up in newspapers,leaving behind him a
                            completely dazzled Alaska who went about the place aimlessly folding and
                            unfolding a brand new two-dollar bill.
                        "I don't know what come over me," explained
                            Alaska later on to a couple of astonished ladies who had hurried in to
                            see if the report was true that she had parted with one of her
                            geraniums. "For the life of me, I don't know how I
                            happened to do it. 'Specially the one I was proudest of, too.
                            I've always said I'd never sell one of my plants,not
                            even if the President of the United States was to come in and offer me
                            untold millions for it,and here IIwhy, Martha, I almost gave it to him, honest I did. I just couldn't seem to
                            help letting him have it. Of course, I don't mind its loss half
                            so much, knowing that it is going to Alix. She loves flowers.
                            She'll take the best of care of it. But how I ever came
                            to"
                        "Don't cry, Alaska," broke in one of her
                            callers  cheerfully.
                            "You'll be getting it back before long."
                        "Never," lamented Alaska. "What makes you
                            think I'll get it back?" she went on, suddenly peeping
                            over the edge of her handkerchief.
                        "Why, as soon as Alix knows how miserable you are about parting
                            with that geranium, she'll send it back to you,and
                            you'll be two dollars ahead. Don't be silly."
                        Repairing at once to the house on the knoll, Courtney took counsel with
                            Mrs. Strong. The housekeeper could hardly believe her eyes when she saw
                            the geranium.
                        "Well, all I've got to say is that you must have stolen it," she exclaimed. "There
                            couldn't be any other way to get one of those plants away from
                            Alaska Spigg."
                        "Be that as it may," said he airily, "what
                            we've got to decide now, Mrs. Strong, is just where to put it.
                            I want to surprise Miss Crown when she returns from town."
                        "She'll be surprised all right when she finds out you
                            got one of Alaska Spigg's pet geraniums. I remember Alaska
                            saying not so long ago that she wouldn't sell one of those
                            plants for a million dollars. Now let me see. It ought to go where it
                            will get as much sun as possible. That would be in the dining-room. I
                            guess we'd better"
                        "I really think it would look better right here in this room,
                            Mrs. Strong," said he, indicating one of the windows looking
                            out over the terrace. There was little or no sunlight there, but he did
                            not mind that. As a matter of fact, he wasn't at all concerned
                            about the future welfare of the plant. It meant no more to him than the
                            customary bunch of violets that one sends, "sight
                            unseen," to the lady of the hour.
                        
                        "Well, you're the boss. It's your
                            plant," said Mrs. Strong briskly. "Alaska Spigg will
                            go into hysterics when she hears where you've put it,but
                            that's of no consequence."
                        And so the plant was placed on a small table in the window of the long
                            living-room.
                        "Link Pollock told us last night that you may go to Philadelphia
                            to join your son, Mrs. Strong," said he, as he watched her
                            arranging the window curtains.
                        Mrs. Strong flushed. "It did not occur to me to ask Mr. Pollock
                            not to repeat what I said to him in confidence," she said, with
                            dignity.
                        "I'm sorry I mentioned it. I am sure Pollock
                            didn't understand it wasera secret or anything like that, Mrs.
                            Strong."
                        "It isn't a secret. I have talked it over with Miss
                            Alix, and I have practically decided to remain with her. You may tell
                            that to Mr. Pollock if you like."
                        "She would miss you terribly," said he, allowing the
                            sarcasm to pass over his head. "Your son and Miss Crown were
                            boy and girl sweethearts, I hear,oh, please don't be offended.
                            Those things happen, you know,and pass off like all of the
                            children's diseases. Like the measles, or mumps or chicken pox.
                            Every boy and girl has to go through that stage, you know. I remember
                            being horribly in love with a girl in our block when I was fifteen,and
                            she with me. But, for the life of me, I can't remember her name
                            now. I mean her married name," he explained, with his whimsical
                            grin.
                        "I don't believe Alix and David ever were in love with
                            each other," said she stiffly. "They were wonderful
                            friends,playmates and all that,but,"here she flushed again,
                            "you see, my boy was only the blacksmith's  son. People may have told you that, Mr.
                            Thane."
                        "What has that to do with it?" he cried instantly.
                            "Wasn't Miss Crown's father the son of a
                            blacksmith?"
                        He caught the passing flicker of appreciation in her eyes as she lifted
                            her head.
                        "True," she said quietly. "And a fine young
                            man, they tell me,those who knew him. His father was not like my
                            David's father, however. He was a drunkard. He beat his wife,
                            they say."
                        "Abraham Lincoln was a rail splitter. James A. Garfield drove a
                            canal boat. Does anybody think the worse of them for that? Your son,
                            Mrs. Strong,I am told by all who know him,will be a great surgeon, a
                            great man. You must not forget that people will speak of his son as the son of Dr. David Strong, the famous
                            surgeon."
                        Her face glowed with pleasure. Mother love and mother pride kindled in
                            her dark eyes. He caught himself wondering if young David Strong was
                            like this tall, grey-haired woman with the steady gaze and quiet smile.
                        "I am sure David will succeed," she said warmly.
                            "He always was a determined boy. Mr. Windom was very fond of
                            him. He took a great interest in him." A self-conscious,
                            apologetic smile succeeded the proud one. "I suppose you would
                            call Alix and David boy and girl sweethearts. As you say, boys and girls
                            just simply can't help having such ailments. It's like
                            an epidemic. Even the strongest catch it and,get over it without calling
                            in the doctor."
                        He grinned. "It is a most amiable disease. The  only medicine necessary is soda water and
                            ice cream, with a few pills in the shape of chocolate caramels or
                            marshmallows, taken at all hours and in large doses."
                        Mrs. Strong's eyes softened as she looked out of the window. A
                            faraway, wistful expression lurked in them.
                        "Those were wonderful days, Mr. Thane,when those two children
                            were growing up." She sighed. "David is four years
                            older than Alix, but ever since she was a tiny child she seemed older
                            than he was. I guess it was because he was so big and strong that he
                            just couldn't bear to lord it over her like most boys do with
                            girls. He was kind of like a big shepherd dog. Always watching over her
                            anddear me, I'll never forget the time they got lost in the
                            woods up above here. That was when she was about seven. They were not
                            found till next morning. We had everybody for miles around beating the
                            woods for them all night long. Well, sir, that boy had taken off his
                            coat and put it on her, and his stockings too, and he had even removed
                            his shirt to make a sort of muffler to wrap around her throat, because
                            she always had sore throats and croup when she was a child. And when the
                            men found them, he was sitting up against a tree sound asleep, almost
                            frozen stiff, with her in his lap and his cold little arms around her.
                            It was late in September and the nights were cold. Then there was the
                            time when she fell off the side of the ferry boat and he jumped in after
                            her,with his best suit on, the little rascal,and held her up till Josh
                            Wilson stopped the ferry and old Mr. White, who was crossing with his
                            team, managed to throw a buggy rein out to him and pull him in. The
                            water out there in the middle of the river is ten feet  deep, Mr. Thane, and David was just
                            learning how to swim. And they both had croup that
                            night. My goodness, I thought that boy was going to die. But, my land,
                            that seems ages ago. Here they are, a grown man and woman, and probably
                            don't even remember those happy days."
                        "That's the horrible penalty one pays for growing up,
                            Mrs. Strong."
                        "I guess you're right. Of course, they write to each
                            other every once in a while,but nothing is like it used to be. Alix had
                            a letter from Davy only a day or so ago. You'd think she might
                            occasionally tell me some of the things he writes about,but she never
                            does. She never opens her mouth about them. And he never writes anything
                            to me about what she writes to him. I suppose that's the way of
                            the world. When they were little they used to come to me with
                            everything.
                        "You see, I came here to keep house for Mr. Windom soon after
                            old Maria Bliss died. My husband died when David was six years old. Alix
                            was only four years old when I came here, Mr. Thane. This house was
                            new,just finished. I'll never forget the rage Mr. Windom got
                            into when he found out that Alix and David were going up to the old
                            farmhouse where her mother died and were using one of the upstairs rooms
                            as a 'den.' They got in through a cellar window, it
                            seems. They were each writing a novel, and that was where they worked
                            and read what they had written to each other. That lasted only about six
                            weeks or so before Mr. Windom found out about it. He was terrible. You
                            see, without knowing it, they had picked out the room that was most
                            sacred to him. It was his  wife's
                            own room,where she died and where Alix's mother was born and
                            where she also died,and where our Alix was born.
                        "Of course, at that time nobody knew about Edward Crown. We all
                            thought he was alive somewhere. The children never went there again. No,
                            sirree! They both ought to have known better than to go at all. Alix was
                            fifteen years old when that happened, and Davy was going to college in
                            the winter time."
                        "Did your son live here in the house with you all those
                            years?" inquired Courtney.
                        "We lived in the first cottage down the lane from here. Mr.
                            Windom was a very thoughtful man. He did not want me to live here in the
                            house with him because of what people might say. You see, I was a young
                            woman then, andwell, people are not always kind, you know." She
                            spoke simply and without the slightest embarrassment.
                        He looked hard at her half-averted face and was suddenly confronted by
                            the realization that this grey, motherly woman must have been young
                            once, like Alix, and pretty. As it is with the young, he could not think
                            of her except as old. He had always thought of his mother as old; it was
                            impossible to think of her as having once been young and gay like the
                            girls he knew. Yes, Mrs. Strong must have been young and pretty and
                            desirable,somebody's sweetheart, somebody's
                            "girl." The thought astonished him.
                    
                    
                        II
                        Shortly afterward he took his departure. There was a frown of annoyance
                            on his brow as he strode briskly up the lane in the direction of the
                            crossroads, half a  mile or more above the
                            village. As usual, he thought aloud.
                        "There's no way of finding out just how things stand
                            between them. The old lady doesn't know anything,
                            that's a cinch. If she really knew she would have let it out to
                            me. I'll never get a better chance to pump her than I had
                            today. She doesn't know. You can see she hopes her son will get
                            her. That's as plain as the nose on your face. But she
                            doesn't know anything. Is that a good sign or a bad one? I wish
                            I knew. Alix isn't the sort to forget. Maybe Strong has gotten
                            over it and not she. It's darned aggravating, that's
                            what it is. There must be some good reason why she's never
                            married. I wonder if she's still keen about him. This talk of
                            Charlie Webster's may be plain bunk. If she hates him,why?
                            That's the question. Why does she hate him?
                            There must be some reason beside that debt he owed to old Windom. Gad, I
                            wish I could have seen that letter he wrote her when he sent the cheque.
                            Well, anyhow, it's up to me to get busy. That's
                            sure!"
                        His walk took him past the Windomville Cemetery and up the gravel
                            turnpike leading to the city. Alix had traversed this road an hour or so
                            earlier. Swinging around a bend in the highway, he came in view of the
                            abandoned farmhouse half a mile ahead.
                        It was a familiar object by this time, for he had passed it many times,
                            not only on his solitary walks but on several occasions with Alix. The
                            desolate house, with its weed-grown yard, its dilapidated paling fence,
                            its atmosphere of decay, had always possessed a certain fascination for
                            him. He secretly confessed to a queer little sensation as of awe
                            whenever he looked upon the  empty,
                            green-shuttered house. It suggested death. More than once he had paused
                            in the road below the rickety gate to gaze intently at the closed
                            windows, or to scrutinize the tangled mass of weeds and rose bushes that
                            almost hid the porch and its approach from view. He was never without
                            the strange feeling that the body of Edward Crown might still be lying
                            at the foot of the hidden steps.
                        Now he approached the place with a new and deeper interest. Strangely
                            enough, it had been shorn within the hour of much that was grim and
                            terrifying. It was no longer a house to inspire dread and uneasiness.
                            Two young and venturesome spirits had invaded its silent precincts,
                            there to dream in safety and seclusion, unhaunted by its spectres,
                            undisturbed by its secret. In one of its darkened rooms they had set up
                            a "workshop," a "playhouse." A glaze
                            came over his eyes as he wondered what had transpired in that room
                            during the surreptitious six weeks' tenancy. Had David Strong
                            kissed her? Had she kissed David Strong? Were promises made and futures
                            planned? His throat was tight with the swell of jealousy.
                        He stopped at the gate. After a moment's hesitation he lifted
                            the rusty latch and jerked the gate open far enough to allow him to
                            squeeze through. Then he paused to sweep the landscape with an inquiring
                            eye. Far up the pike a load of fodder moved slowly. There were cattle in
                            the pasture near at hand, but no human being to observe his actions. In
                            a distant upland field men were moving among a multitude of corn-shocks,
                            trailing the horses and wagons that belonged to Alix Crown. Crows cawed
                            in the trees on the eastern edge of the strip of meadowland, and on high
                            soared two  or three big birds,hawks or
                            buzzards, he knew not which,circling slowly in the arc of the steel blue
                            sky.
                        Confident that he was unobserved, he made his way up the half-buried walk
                            to the porch, and, deliberately mounting the steps, tried the door-knob.
                            As he expected, the door was locked. After another searching look in all
                            directions, he started off through the tangle of weeds and burdocks to
                            circle the house. He passed through what once must have been the
                            tennis-court of Alix the First,now a weedy patch,and came to the back
                            door. Below him lay the deserted stables and outbuildings, facing the
                            barnyard in which a few wornout farm implements were to be seen,
                            weather-beaten skeletons of a past generation.
                        There was no sign of human life. A lean and threadbare scarecrow flapped
                            his ragged coat-sleeves in the wind that swept across the barren garden
                            patch farther up the slope,this was the nearest approach to human life
                            that came within the range of vision. And as if to invite jovial
                            companionship, this pathetic gentleman wore his ancient straw hat cocked
                            rakishly over what would have been his left ear if he had had any ears
                            at all.
                        While standing before the gate, Courtney had come to a sudden, amazing
                            decision. He resolved to enter and explore the house if it were possible
                            to do so. He remembered that Mrs. Strong, in pursuing the subject, had
                            declared that Alix and David were not even permitted to return to the
                            house for their literary products; moreover, she doubted very much
                            whether the former had taken the trouble to recover them after she
                            became sole possessor of the property. If they were still there, with
                            other tangible proofs of an adolescent 
                            intimacy, he saw no reason why he should not lay eyes,or even hands,upon
                            them. He saw no wrong in the undertaking. It was a justifiable
                            adventure, viewed from the standpoint of a lover whose claim was in
                            doubt.
                        The back door was locked and the window shutters securely nailed.
                            Entrance to the cellar was barred by heavy scantlings fastened across
                            the sloping hatch. In the barnyard he found a stout single-tree. With
                            this he succeeded in prying off the two scantlings. The staple holding
                            the padlock was easily withdrawn from one of the rotten boards.
                        Descending the steps, he found himself in the small, musty cellar. The
                            vault-like room was empty save for a couple of barrels standing in a
                            corner and a small pile of firewood under the stairs that led to regions
                            above. Selecting a faggot of kindling-wood from this pile, he fashioned
                            a torch by whittling the end into a confusion of partially detached
                            slivers. This he lighted with a match, and then mounted the stairs.
                        The door at the head opened at the lifting of an old-fashioned latch. A
                            thick screen of cobwebs almost closed the upper half of the aperture. He
                            burnt it away with the flaming torch, and passed on into the kitchen. He
                            was grateful for the snapping fire of the faggot, for otherwise the
                            silence of the grave would have fallen about him as he stood motionless
                            for a moment peering about the empty room. No light penetrated from the
                            outside. The air was dead. Spiders had clothed the corners and the
                            ceiling with their silk, over which the dust of years lay thick and
                            ugly. He felt, with a queer little shiver, that the eyes of a thousand
                                 spiders peered gloatingly down upon
                            him from the murky fastnesses.
                        He hurried on. The rooms on the lower floor had been stripped of all
                            signs of habitation. His footsteps resounded throughout the house.
                            Boards creaked under his tread. Without actually realizing what he was
                            doing, he began to tiptoe toward the stairway that led to the upper
                            floor. He laughed at himself for this precaution, and yet could not rid
                            himself of the feeling that some one was listening, that the stealth of
                            the midnight burglar was necessary. The stairs groaned under his weight,
                            the dust-covered banister cracked loudly when he laid his hand upon it.
                            He had the strange notion that they were sounding the alarm to some
                            guardian occupant of the premises,to a slumbering ghost perhaps.
                        He came at last to the room where Alix and David had played at
                            book-writing. In the centre stood a kitchen table, on either side of
                            which was a rudely constructed bench,evidently the handiwork of David
                            Strong. Two strips of rag carpet served as a rug. At each end of the
                            table was a candlestick containing a half-used tallow candle. There was
                            a single ink pot, but there were two penholders beside it, and a couple
                            of blue blotters. Nearby were two ancient but substantial rocking
                            chairs,singularly out of place,no doubt discarded survivors of
                            long-distant days of comfort, rescued from an attic storeroom by the
                            young trespassers. A scrap basket, half-full of torn and crumpled sheets
                            of paper, stood conveniently near the table.
                        He lighted both of the candles and extinguished the flickering faggot.
                            The steady glow of the candlelight  filled
                            the room. On the mantel above the blackened fireplace he saw a small,
                            white framed mirror. A forgotten pair of gloves lay beside it, and two
                            or three hairpins. He picked up the gloves, slapped them against his leg
                            to rid them of accumulated dust, and then stuck them into his coat
                            pocket. They were long and slim and soiled by wear.
                        A closet door, standing partly open, drew him across the room. Hanging
                            from one of the hooks was a moth-eaten vicuna smoking jacket of blue.
                            Beside this garment hung a girl's bright red blazer, with black
                            collar; protecting, business-like paper cuffs were still attached. In
                            the corner of the closet reposed a broom, a mop and an empty pail.
                        He smiled at the thought of young Alix sweeping and scrubbing the floor
                            of this sequestered retreat.
                        Returning to the table, he pulled out the drawer, and there, side by
                            side, lay two neat but far from voluminous manuscripts, each weighted
                            down by the unused portion of the scratch pad from which the written
                            sheets had been torn. One was in the bold, superior scrawl of a boy, the
                            other ineffably feminine in its pains-taking regard for legibility and
                            tidiness.
                    
                    
                        III
                        These literary efforts had been cut off short in their infancy.
                            David's vigorously written pages, marred by frequent
                            scratchings and erasures, far outnumbered Alix's. He was in the
                            midst of Chapter Three of a novel entitled "The Phantom
                            Singer" when the calamitous interruption came. Alix's
                            work had progressed to Chapter Five. Inspection revealed the further
                            fact that she was thrifty. She had written on both sides  of the sheets, while the prodigal David
                            confined himself to the inexorable "one side of the sheet
                            only." There were unmistakable indications of editorial
                            arrogance on the part of Alix on every sheet of David's
                            manuscript. Her small, precise hand was to be seen here, there and
                            everywhere,sometimes in the substitution of a single word, often in the
                            rewriting of an entire sentence. But nowhere on her own pages was to be
                            found so much as a scratch by the clumsy hand of her fellow novelist.
                        Her story bore the fetching title: "Lady Mordaunt's
                            Lover."
                        Courtney read the first page of her script. A sudden wave of remorse,
                            even guilt, swept through him. Back in his mind he pictured her bending
                            studiously, earnestly to the task, her heart in every line she was
                            penning, her dear little brow wrinkled in thought. He could almost
                            visualize the dark, wavy hair, the soft white neck,as if he were
                            standing behind looking down upon her as she struggled with an obstinate
                            muse,and the quick, gentle rise and fall of her young breast. He could
                            see her lift her head now and then to stare dreamily at the ceiling,
                            searching there for inspiration. He could see the cramped, tense fingers
                            that gripped the pen as she wrote these precious lines,with David
                            scratching away laboriously at the opposite end of the table. A strange
                            tenderness entered his soul. Something akin to reverence took possession
                            of him. He had invaded sanctuary.
                        Slowly, almost tenderly, he replaced the manuscript in the drawer beside
                            its bristling mate. Then he resolutely closed the drawer, blew out the
                            candles, and strode swiftly from the room and down the creaking  stairs, lighting the way with matches.
                            Even as he convicted himself of wrong, he justified himself as right.
                            The virtuous renunciation balanced, aye, overbalanced,the account with
                            cupidity. He was saying to himself as he made his way down to the
                            cellar:
                        "It would be downright rotten to take that story of hers, even
                            as a joke,and I came mighty near to doing it. Thank the Lord, I
                            didn't. Of course, it's piffle,both of
                            'em,but I just couldn't take hers.
                            away for no other reason than to get a good laugh out of it. Anyhow, my
                            conscience is clear. I put it back where she left it,and that's
                            the end of it so far as I'm concerned. Damn these cobwebs! Good
                            Lord, I wonder if any of these spiders are poisonous!"
                        Brushing the cobwebs from his face as he ran, he hurried across the
                            cellar and bolted up the steps, out into the brilliant sunlight. He made
                            frantic efforts to remove the disgusting webs from his garments, his
                            eyes darting everywhere in search of the evil insects.
                        Presently he set to work replacing the staple and padlock, inserting the
                            nails in the holes they had left in the rotting board. He did his best
                            to fasten the scantlings down, making a sorry job of it, and then, as he
                            prepared to leave the premises, he was suddenly seized by the uncanny
                            feeling that some one was watching him. His gaze swept the fields, the
                            barn lot, even the high grass that surrounded the house. There was no
                            one in sight, and yet he could feel the eyes of an
                            invisible watcher.
                        Up in the garden patch, the screcrow flapped his empty sleeves. His hat
                            was still tilted jauntily over his absent ear. It was ridiculous to
                            suppose that that uncanny object could see,yet somehow it seemed to  Courtney that it was
                            looking at him, looking at him with malicious, accusing eyes.
                        Not once, but half a dozen times, he turned in the road to glance over
                            his shoulder at the house he had left behind. Always his gaze went to
                            the scarecrow. He shivered slightly and cursed himself for a fool. The
                            silly thing couldn't be looking at him! What
                            nonsense! Still he breathed a sigh of relief when he turned the bend and
                            was safely screened from view by the grove of oaks that crowned the hill
                            above the village.
                        Several automobiles passed him as he trudged along the pike; an old man
                            afoot driving a little herd of sheep gave him a cheery "good
                            morning," but received no response.
                        "I wish I hadn't gone into that beastly
                            house," he was repeating to himself, a scowl in his eyes.
                            "It gave me the 'Willies.' Jolly lot of
                            satisfaction I got out of it,I don't think. I daresay he kissed
                            her a good many times up there in that, But, Lord, what's the
                            sense of worrying about something that happened ten years ago?"
                        At the dinner table that noon, Charlie Webster suddenly inquired:
                        "Well, what have you been up to this morning,
                            Court?"
                        Courtney started guiltily and shot a quick, inquiring look at the
                            speaker. Satisfied that there was no veiled significance in
                            Charlie's question, he replied:
                        "Took a long ramble up the pike. The air is like wine today. I
                            walked out as far as the old Windom house."
                        Charlie was interested. "Is that so? Did you see Amos
                            Vick's daughter hanging around the place?"
                        
                        "Amos Vick'syou mean Rosabel?" He swallowed
                            hard. "No, I didn't see her. Was she over
                            there?"
                        "Jim Bagley was in the office half an hour or so ago. As he was
                            coming past the house in his Ford he saw her standing at the front gate,
                            so he stopped and asked her what she was doing over on this side of the
                            river. She'd been over here spending the night with Annie
                            Jordan,that's Phil Jordan's girl, you know, the
                            township assessor,and went out for a long walk this morning. She looked
                            awful tired and sort of sickly, so Jim told her to hop in and
                            he'd give her a lift back to Phil's house. She got in
                            with him and he left her at Phil's."
                        "I saw her walking down to the ferry with Annie as I was coming
                            over from the office a little while ago," said Doc Simpson.
                        "Sorry I didn't meet her," said Courtney.
                            "She's jolly good fun,and I certainly was in need of
                            somebody to cheer me up this morning. For the first time since I came
                            out here I was homesick for New York,and mother. It must have been our
                            talk last night about the theatres and all that."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    WORDS AND LETTERS
                    
                        MARY BLYTHE and her brother arrived on Tuesday for a two days'
                            visit. Alix motored to town and brought them out in the automobile. She
                            was surprised and gratified when Courtney, revoking his own decree,
                            volunteered to go up with her to meet the visitors at the railway
                            station in the city. But when the day came, he was ill and unable to
                            leave his room. The cold, steady rains of the past few days had brought
                            on an attack of pleurisy, and the doctor ordered him to remain in bed.
                            He grumbled a great deal over missing the little dinner Alix was giving
                            on the first night of their stay, and sent more than one lamentation
                            forth in the shape of notes carried up to the house on the knoll by Jim
                            House, the venerable handy-man at Dowd's Tavern.
                        "I really don't recall him," said Addison
                            Blythe, frowning thoughtfully. "He probably came to the sector
                            after I left, Miss Crown. I've got a complete roster at home of
                            all the fellows who served in the American Ambulance up to the time it
                            was taken over. I'd like to meet him. I may have run across him
                            any number of times. Names didn't mean much, you see, except in
                            cases where we hung out together in one place for some time. I would
                            remember his face, of course. Faces made impressions, and
                            that's more than names did. Courtney Thane? Seems to me I have
                            a  vague recollection of that name. You
                            say he was afterward flying with the British?"
                        "Yes. He was wounded and gassed atatlet me think. What was the
                            name of the place? Only a few weeks before the armistice."
                        "There was a great deal doing a few weeks before the
                            armistice," said Blythe, smiling. "You'll
                            have to be a little more definite than that. The air was full of British
                            aeroplanes from London clear to Palestine. What is he doing
                            here?"
                        "Recovering his health. He has had two attacks of pneumonia, you
                            see,and a touch of typhoid. His family originally lived in this country.
                            The old Thane farm is almost directly across the river from Windomville.
                            Courtney's father was born there, but went east to live during
                            the first Cleveland administration. He had some kind of a political
                            appointment in Washington, and married a Congressman's daughter
                            from Georgia, I thinkanyhow, it was one of the Southern states. He is
                            really quite fascinating, Mary. You would lose your heart to him, I am
                            sure."
                        "And, pray, have you offered any reward for yours?"
                            inquired Mary Blythe, smiling as she studied her friend's face
                            rather narrowly.
                        Alix met her challenging gaze steadily. A sharper observer than Mary
                            Blythe might have detected the faintest shadow of a cloud in the dark,
                            honest eyes.
                        "When I lose it, dear, I shall say 'good
                            riddance' and live happily ever after without one,"
                            she replied airily.
                        The next morning she started off with her guests for a drive down the
                            river, to visit the old fort and the remains of the Indian village.
                            Stopping at the grain  elevator, she
                            beckoned to Charlie Webster. The fat little manager came bustling out,
                            beaming with pleasure.
                        "How is Mr. Thane today, Charlie?" she inquired, after
                            introducing him to the Blythes.
                        Charlie pursed his lips and looked wise. "Well, all I can say
                            is, he's doing as well as could be expected. Temperature
                            normal, pulse fluctuating, appetite good, respiration improved by a good
                            many cusswords, mustard plaster itching like all get out,but otherwise
                            he's at the point of death. I was in to see him after
                            breakfast. He was sitting up in bed and getting ready to tell Doc Smith
                            what he thinks of him for ordering him to stay in the house till he says
                            he can go out. He is terribly upset because he can't get up to
                            Alix's to see you, Mr. Blythe. I never saw a feller so cut up
                            about a thing as he is."
                        "He must not think of coming out in this kind of
                            weather," cried Alix firmly. "It would be"
                        "Oh, he's not thinking of coming out,"
                            interrupted Charlie quietly.
                        "I am sorry not to have met him," said Blythe.
                            "We probably have a lot of mutual friends."
                        A queer little light flashed into Charlie Webster's eyes and
                            lingered for an instant.
                        "He's terribly anxious to meet you. It
                            wouldn't surprise me at all if he got up today sometime and in
                            spite of Doc Smith hustled over to call on you. I'll tell you
                            what we might do, Alix. If Mr. Blythe isn't going to be too
                            busy, I might take him up to see Court,that is, when you get back from
                            your drive. I know he'll appreciate it, and be tickled almost
                            to death."
                        "Fine!" cried Blythe. "If you're sure
                            he will not mind, Mr. Webster."
                        
                        "Why should he mind? He says he's crazy to meet you,
                            and he's able to see people"
                        "But I've always understood that talking was very
                            painful to any one suffering from pleurisy," protested Alix.
                        "Doesn't seem to hurt Court very much,"
                            declared Charlie. "He nearly talked an arm off of me and Furman
                            Hatch this morning,and it certainly seemed to be a real pleasure for him
                            to cuss. I really think he'll get well quicker if you drop in
                            for a chat with him, Mr. Blythe."
                        "It would be very nice," said Alix warmly, "if
                            you could run in for a few minutes"
                        "Sure I will," cried the young man. "This
                            afternoon, Mr. Webster,about half-past two?"
                        "Any time suits me," said the obliging Mr. Webster. As
                            if struck by something irresistibly funny, he suddenly put his hand to
                            his mouth and got very red in the face. After an illy-suppressed snort
                            or two, he coughed violently, and then stammered: "Excuse me. I
                            was just thinking abouterabout something funny. I'm always
                            doing some fool thing like that. This was about Ed Jones's
                            dog,wouldn't be the least bit funny to anybody but me, so I
                            won't tell you about it. Two-thirty it is, then? I'll
                            meet you up at Alix's. It's only a step."
                        "Will you tell Mr. Thane that you are bringing Mr. Blythe to see
                            him this afternoon, Charlie?" said Alix. "You said he
                            was threatening to disobey the doctor's"
                        "You leave it to me, Alix," broke in Charlie
                            reassuringly. "Trust me to see that he don't
                            escape."
                        A little before two-thirty, tall Mr. Blythe, one time  Captain in the Field Artillery, and short
                            Mr. Webster wended their way through the once busy stable-yard in the
                            rear of Dowd's Tavern. Charlie gave his companion a brief
                            history of the Tavern and indicated certain venerable and venerated
                            objects of interest,such as the ancient log watering-trough (hewn in
                            1832); the rain-barrels, ash-hoppers and fodder cribs (dating back to
                            Civil War days), the huge kettle suspended from a thick iron bar the
                            ends of which were supported by rusty standards, where apple-butter was
                            made at one season of the year, lye at another, and where lard was
                            rendered at butchering-time. He took him into the wagon-shed and showed
                            him the rickety high-wheeled, top-heavy carriage used by the first of
                            the Dowds back in the forties, now ready to fall to pieces at the
                            slightest ungentle shake; the once gaudy sleigh with its great curved
                            "runners"; and over in a dark corner two long
                            barrelled rifles with rusty locks and rotten stocks, that once upon a
                            time cracked the doom of deer and wolf and fox, of catamount and
                            squirrel and coon, of wild turkeys and geese and ducksto say nothing of
                            an occasional horsethief.
                        "They say old man Dowd could shoot the eye out of a squirrel
                            three hundreds yards away with one of these rifles," announced
                            Charlie; "and it was no trick at all for him to nip a wild
                            turkey's head off at five hundred yards. I'll bet you
                            din't run up against any such shooting as that over in
                            France."
                        Blythe shook his head. "No such rifle shooting, I grant you. But
                            what would you say to a German cannon twelve miles away landing ten
                            shells in succession on a battery half as big as this stable without
                            even being able to see the thing they were shooting at?"
                        
                        "I give up," said Charlie gloomily. "Old man
                            Dowd was some liar, but, my gosh, he couldn't
                            hold awell, my respect for the American Army is greater than it ever
                            was, I'll say that, Captain. Dan Dowd was the rankest kind of
                            an amateur."
                        "Do you mean as a shot,or as a liar?" inquired Blythe,
                            grinning.
                        "Both," said Charlie.
                        He had a very definite purpose in leading his guest through the
                            stable-yard. By doing so he avoided the customary approach to the
                            Tavern, in full view from Courtney's windows. They circled the
                            building and arrived at the long, low porch from the north. Here they
                            encountered Furman Hatch. Charlie appeared greatly surprised to find the
                            photographer there.
                        "What are you doing here at this time o' day,
                            Tintype?" he demanded. "Takin' a
                            vacation?"
                        "I come over for some prints I left in my room last
                            night," explained Mr. Hatch.
                        "We're going up to call on Court," said
                            Charlie. "Won't you join us?"
                        Hatch looked at his watch, frowned dubiously, and then said he could
                            spare a few minutes,and that was just what it was understood in advance
                            that he was to say!
                        "He goes by the name of Tintype," explained Mr.
                            Webster, after the two men had shaken hands. "Not because he
                            looks like one, but because the village idiot's name is Furman,
                            and we have to have some way of tellin' them apart."
                        A few minutes later, Charlie knocked resoundingly on Courtney's
                            door.
                        "Who is it?"
                        
                        "It's me,Charlie Webster. Got a nice surprise for
                            you."
                        "Come in."
                        And in strode Charlie, followed by the tall stranger and the lank Mr.
                            Hatch.
                        Courtney, full dressed,except that he wore instead of his coat a thick
                            blue bath gown,was sitting at a table in front of the small wood-fire
                            stove, playing solitaire. A saucer at one corner of the table served as
                            an ash tray. It was half full of cigarette stubs.
                        "Well, what the" he began, and then, catching sight of
                            the stranger, scrambled up from his chair, his mouth still open.
                        "I thought you'd be surprised," said Charlie
                            triumphantly. "This is Mr. Blythe, Mr. Thane,shake hands with
                            each other, comrades. When I told him you were so keen to see him and
                            talk over old times, he said slap-bang he'd come with me when I
                            offered to bring him up."
                        "I hope we're not intruding, Mr. Thane," said
                            Blythe, advancing with hand extended. "Mr. Webster assured me
                            you were quite well enough to receive"
                        "I am glad you came," cried Courtney, recovering from
                            his surprise. "Awfully good of you. These beastly lungs of
                            mine, you know. The least little flare-up scares me stiff. Still, I had
                            almost screwed up my nerve to going out this afternoon"
                        "It doesn't pay to take any risks," warned
                            Blythe, as they shook hands.
                        The two men looked each other closely, steadily in the eye. Courtney was
                            the first to speak at the end of this mutual scrutiny.
                        
                        "I wasn't quite sure whether I met you over there,
                            Captain Blythe," he said, "but now I know that I
                            didn't. I've been puzzling my brain for days trying to
                            recall the name, or at least your face. I may be wrong, however. I
                            haven't much of a memory. I hope you will forgive me if we did
                            meet and I have forgotten it. I"
                        "I have no recollection of ever having seen you, Mr.
                            Thane," said Blythe. "It isn't surprising,
                            however. Itit was a pretty big war, you know."
                        Charlie Webster was slightly dashed. If anything, Courtney Thane was more
                            at ease, more convincing than Addison Blythe. He felt rather foolish.
                            Something, it seemed, had fallen very flat. He evaded Mr.
                            Hatch's eye.
                        "Sit down, Captain Blythe," said Courtney affably.
                            "Hope you don't mind this bath gown. Charlie, make
                            yourself at home on the bed,you too, Hatch. We're as shy of
                            chairs here as we were at the front, you see."
                        Blythe remained for half an hour and then went away with his two
                            companions. Courtney shook hands with him and said good-bye at the
                                --all door; then he strode over to the bureau to
                            look at himself in the glass. He saw reflected therein a very well
                            satisfied face, with brightly confident eyes and the suggestion of a
                            triumphant smile.
                        Hatch accompanied the moody Mr. Webster to the warehouse office.
                        "Strikes me, Charlie," said he, thoughtfully,
                            "that of the two our friend Courtney seems a long sight more
                            genuine than this feller Blythe. I guess you're off your base,
                            old boy. Why, darn it, he had Blythe up in the air half the time. If I
                            was a betting man,  I'd put up a
                            hundred or two that Blythe never even saw the places they were talking
                            about."
                        "Do you think Blythe is a fake?" cried Charlie in some
                            heat.
                        "I wouldn't go so far as to say that," said
                            Hatch diplomatically, "but you'll have to admit that
                            Court asked him a lot of questions he didn't seem able to
                            answer."
                        Charlie stared hard at the floor for a few seconds. Then: "Well,
                            if I was to ask you what my mother's maiden name was, Tintype,
                            you'd have to say you didn't know, wouldn't
                            you?"
                        "Sure," said Hatch. "But I wouldn't
                            go so far as to say I wasn't certain whether she had a maiden
                            name or not, would I?"
                        "There's no use arguing with you, Hatch," said
                            Charlie irritably, and turned to his desk by the window, there to frown
                            fiercely over his scales book.
                    
                    
                        II
                        Alix and Miss Blythe were sitting in front of the fireplace when young
                            Blythe entered the living-room on his return from Dowd's
                            Tavern. The former looked up at him brightly, eagerly as he planted
                            himself between them with his back to the cheerful blaze.
                        "Did you see him?" she inquired. He was struck by the
                            deep, straining look in her dark eyes,as if she were searching for
                            something far back in his brain.
                        "Yes," he replied, as he took his pipe and tobacco
                            pouch from his pocket. "He was up and around the room and was
                            as pleased as Punch to see me." He began stuffing the bowl of
                            the pipe. "He is a most attractive  chap, Alix. I don't know when I've met a more
                            agreeable fellow."
                        "Then you had not met before,over there?"
                        "No. We missed each other by days on two or three occasions. He
                            left for the Vosges just before I got to Pont-a-Mousson, and was
                            transferred to another section when we all went up to Bar le Duc at the
                            time of the Verdun drive. He joined the Ambulance several months before
                            I did, and was shifted about a good deal. Had some trouble with a French
                            officer at Pont-a-Mousson and asked to be transferred." Here he
                            smiled feelingly. "He's got a mustard plaster on his
                            back now, he says, that would cover an army mule. I know how that feels,
                            by Jinks! I wore one for three weeks over there because I
                            didn't have the nerve to rip it off."
                        He was still aware of the unanswered question in her eyes. Changing his
                            position slightly, he busied himself with the lighting of his pipe.
                        "Was he expecting you?" inquired Alix.
                        "Not at all. It seems that your roly-poly friend forgot to
                            notify him. I say, Alix, what a wonderful lot of pre-historic junk there
                            is in that old stable-yard. Webster took me around there and showed me
                            the stuff. Tell me something about the place."
                        Late in the afternoon Blythe,after submitting to an interview at the
                            hands of A. Lincoln Pollock,sat alone before the fire, his long legs
                            stretched out, a magazine lying idly in his lap, his pipe dead but
                            gripped firmly in the hand that had remained stationary for a long, long
                            time halfway to his lips. He was staring abstractedly into the neglected
                            fire.
                        
                        His sister came in. He was not aware of her entrance until she appeared
                            directly in front of him.
                        "Hello!" he exclaimed, blinking.
                        "What is on your mind, Addy?"
                        He glanced over his shoulder.
                        "Where is Alix?"
                        "Writing letters. There were two or three she has to get off
                            before we start for town." She sat down on the arm of his
                            chair. "You may as well tell me what you really think of him,
                            Addison. Isn't he good enough for her?"
                        He lowered his voice. The frown of perplexity deepened in his eyes.
                        "I can't make him out, Mary," he said,
                            lowering his voice.
                        "What do you mean?" she asked quickly.
                        "Well, I may be doing him the rottenest injustice, butsomehowhe
                            doesn't ring quite true to me."
                        "For goodness sake, Addy," she began, and then:
                            "In what way? Hurry up! Tell me before she comes down.
                            Isn't he aa gentleman?"
                        "Oh, yes,I suppose he is. He's a most engaging chap; he
                            certainly seems well-bred, and he's darned good-looking. That
                            isn't what I mean." He hesitated a moment and then
                            blurted out: "Does Alix know positively that
                            he was in the American Ambulance? I mean, has she anybody
                            else's word for it except his?"
                        Mary Blythe stared at her brother, her lips parted. Then her eyes
                            narrowed suddenly.
                        "Don'tdon't you think he's straight,
                            Addy?" she half-whispered.
                        "I confess I'm puzzled. I never dreamed of doubting  him when I went there. But I've
                            been doing a lot of thinking since I saw him, and,by George, Mary,
                            I'm up a tree. Good Lord, if he should bewell, if he should be
                            putting something over on Alix, he ought to be shot, that's
                            all. Do you think she's in love with him?"
                        "I don't know. She's interested in him,
                            I'm sure, but two or three times I have caught the queerest
                            little look in her eyes when she is speaking of him,almost as if she
                            were afraid of something. I can't describe it. It's
                            justwell, the only thing I can think of is that it's kind of
                            pleading, if you know what I mean."
                        "Groping, I guess is the word you're after."
                        "Exactly. But go on,tell me."
                        "It won't do to say anything about this to Alix,
                            Mary," said he firmly. "At least not at present. Not
                            until I've satisfied myself. I'm going to write to
                            three or four fellows who were in Section Two for months,before I was
                            there,and see if they know anything about him. I'd write to Mr.
                            Hereford himself, but he's in Europe. He could give me the
                            right dope in a minute. Piatt Andrew's in France, I understand.
                            The records will show, of course, but it will take time to get at them.
                            We must not breathe a word of all this to Alix, Mary. Understand?
                            I've got to make sure first. It would be unpardonable if I were
                            to make a break about him and he turned out to be all right."
                        "You must find out as quickly as possible, Addison. We would
                            never forgive ourselves if we allowed Alix to"
                        "Don't you worry! It won't take long to get a
                            line on him. I'd telegraph if I were sure of the addresses. I
                            ought to hear in three or four days, a week at the  outside. Of course, he talks very convincingly.
                            That's what floors me. But, on the other hand, he's
                            too darned convincing. First of all, he called me Captain Blythe all the
                            time. That isn't done by fellows in the know. I'm just
                            plain Mister these days. He was rather hazy about the places I know all
                            about, and tremendously clear about places I've never even
                            heard of,the places around Pont-a-Mousson, I mean. He actually looked
                            suspicious of me when I said I didn't know where they were. And
                            he mentioned a lot of men that I am dead sure never were up at
                            Pont-a-Mousson,either before or after I was there. Names I had never
                            heard before in my life. And, confound it, the way he lifted his
                            eyebrows made me feel for a minute or two that I hadn't been
                            there myself. He says that since his injury and his sicknesses his
                            memory isn't the best, but when I spoke of some of the fellows
                            who were there with me, he remembered them perfectly. Didn't
                            know them well, because he wasn't with the bunch very long, it
                            seems. When I remarked that he must see a good bit of the chaps who live
                            in New York City, he told me he had been sick ever since he came home
                            from England and hadn't seen one of the crowd. He said he knew
                            Pottle, and Fay, and Tyler, Sudbery and several others,so I'm
                            going to write to all of them tomorrow."
                        "It would be terrible, Addy, if she were to"
                        "Mind you, old girl, I'm not saying this fellow
                            isn't square," he interrupted. "He may be all
                            he says he is. He's got me guessing, that's
                            all."
                        "She says he has the croix de guerre and a D.
                            S. medal."
                        He looked at her pityingly. "I've got a couple of  Iron Crosses, old dear, but that
                            doesn't mean I had 'em pinned on me by a Boche
                            general. I've also got a German helmet, but I got it the same
                            way I got the Crosses,off of a German whose eyes were closed. Anyhow,
                            I'd like to see his medals. Has Alix seen them?"
                        "His mother has them in New York," she replied. She
                            stared into the fire for a moment or two and then turned to him, a look
                            of deep concern in her eyes. "I think Alix is in love with him,
                            Addy. She isn't herself at all. She is distrait. Twice this
                            afternoon she has asked me if I didn't want to walk down into
                            the village,to the postoffice or the library. What she really wanted to
                            do was to walk past the place where he lives. Oh, I know the symptoms.
                            I've had them myself,when I was younger than I am now. We
                            don't do the things at thirty-two that we did at twenty-four.
                            She is the dearest, finest girl I've ever known, Addy. We must
                            not let anything happen to her."
                        He shook his head slowly. "If she is really in love with him,
                            there's nothing we can do. The saying that
                            'there's no fool like an old fool'
                            isn't in it with 'there's no fool like a
                            woman in love.' Look at Isabel Harrington. Wasn't she
                            supposed to be as sensible as they make 'em? And
                            didn't everybody she knew tell her what kind of a man he was?
                            Did it do any good?"
                        "She knew he gambled,and drankand he was a
                            fascinating chap, Addy. You'll admit that."
                        "You bet I admit it. It was certainly proved when those other
                            women turned up with marriage certificates, and old Mrs. Mason jumped
                            into the scrimmage and had him arrested for swindling her out of
                            thirty-five thousand dollars, and the New York police came along with a
                            warrant for"
                        
                        "Yes, yes," she interrupted impatiently. "But
                            Alix is quite different. She is not a fool, and Isabel
                            was,and still is, I maintain. You have seen this friend of
                            Alix's. Is he attractive?"
                        "Well," he mused aloud, "unless I am mistaken,
                            he is the sort of fellow that women fall for without much of an effort.
                            The sort that can fool women but can't fool men, Mary, if that
                            means anything to you. Now that I think of it, I believe Webster and
                            that friend of his are Well, I'm sure they don't like
                            him. He"
                        "Sh! She is coming!"
                        Alix's quick, light tread was heard in the hall. She came from
                            her "office" in the wing where the kitchen was
                            situated.
                        There was a heightened colour in her cheeks and her lovely eyes were
                            shining.
                        "Well, that job is done," she cried, tossing two or
                            three letters on the table. "Don't let me forget them,
                            Mary. I'll post them in the city. We leave at six
                            o'clock, Addison. I telephoned to town and asked George
                            Richards to meet us at the Raleigh at a quarter before seven. I am
                            dreadfully disappointed, Mary, that Mr. Thane cannot go, but you will
                            like George. Mr. Thane never goes to town. He was
                            going to break his rule tonight, and now he can't go. Isn't that always the way?"
                        "Mary's awfully partial to Georges," said
                            Addison, "so don't you worry about her. I know I shall
                            have a better time if Thane isn't in the party. To be perfectly
                            frank with you, I'm jolly well fed up with Mary,as we say in
                            London. And if Thane was along I'd have to
                            talk to her for three solid Why, 'pon my soul, Alix,
                            you're blushing!"
                        
                        "Don't be silly!"
                        "Skip along, Addy, and see how quickly you can dress,"
                            interposed his sister briskly. "You've got forty-six
                            minutes."
                        "I can dress and undress three times in forty-six minutes, and
                            still have time to read the evening paper and do a few odd chores about
                            the place. I say, Alix, red is awfully becoming to you." With
                            that parting shot, he disappeared.
                    
                    
                        III
                        One of the envelopes on the table was addressed to David Strong. It was a
                            reply to a special delivery letter received in the afternoon post. He
                            had been very prompt in responding to Alix's curt note, and she
                            was being equally prompt with her answer. There were stamps sufficient
                            on hers to insure "special delivery" to him.
                        He had written: 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR ALIX:
                                        
                                        I have not received the bracelet yet. Registered mail
                                            moves slowly. If I did not know you so well, I might
                                            even hope that you had changed your mind at the last
                                            minute and did not send it. But I know it will come
                                            along in a day or so. I shall not ask you to explain why
                                            you are returning my gift. You have a good reason, no
                                            doubt. We have not been very friendly of late. I admit
                                            that I have been stubborn about paying back the money
                                            your grandfather lent to me, and I suppose I have not
                                            been very gentlemanly or tactful in trying to make you
                                            understand. I still maintain that it is a very silly
                                            thing for us to quarrel about, but I am not going to
                                            hector you about it now. I trust you will forgive me if
                                            I add to your annoyance by saying  that I'd like to be where I could
                                            shake a little sense into that stubborn head of yours.
                                        You are returning my gift. As I told you when I sent it
                                            to you, it was given me by a French lady whose son I had
                                            taken care of and for whose ultimate recovery I was
                                            perhaps responsible. She appreciated the fact that I
                                            could not and would not accept pay for my services. This
                                            much I have told you before. Now, I shall tell you
                                            something more. When she pressed it upon me she said
                                            that I was to give it to my sweetheart back in America.
                                            I gave it to you. I daresay I am greatly to blame for
                                            never having told you before that you were my
                                            sweetheart, Alix.
                                        Very sincerely yours, DAVID.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        To this Alix replied: 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR DAVID:
                                        
                                        By this time you will have received the bracelet. It is
                                            not beyond the bounds of probability that you may yet be
                                            in a position to carry out the terms imposed by the lady
                                            in France. All the more reason for my returning it to
                                            you. You are now free to give it to any one to whom you
                                            may have confided the astonishing secret you so
                                            successfully withheld from me. You seem to have
                                            forgotten that I gave you a receipt in full for the
                                            amount you are supposed to have owed my
                                            grandfather's estate. I did this with the
                                            consent of my lawyer. He said it was perfectly legal and
                                            that it was in my power to cancel the so-called
                                            obligation,especially as we have no documentary evidence
                                            that you ever had promised to reimburse my grandfather.
                                            On the contrary, as I have told you over and over again,
                                            I have in my possession a statement written by
                                            Grandfather Windom which absolutely settles the matter.
                                            He states in so many words that in making his will he
                                            failed to mention his "beloved young friend,
                                            David Strong" as a beneficiary, in  view of the fact that
                                            "I have made him a substantial gift during the
                                            closing years of my life in the shape of such education
                                            as he may require, and for which I trust him to repay
                                            me, not in money, but in the simplest and truest form of
                                            compensation: gratitude." In spite of this, you
                                            continue to offend me,I might even say insult me,by
                                            choosing to consider his gift as an obligation which can
                                            only be met by paying money to me. All
                                            that you owed my grandfather was gratitude and respect.
                                            As for myself, I relieve you of the former but I do
                                            think I am entitled to the latter.
                                        Yours sincerely, ALIX
                                                  CROWN
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        The same post that carried her letter east was to take one from Courtney
                            Thane to his mother. 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAREST MATER:
                                        
                                        I am going to ask Alix Crown to marry me. I have
                                            hesitated to do so for obvious reasons, perfectly clear
                                            to you. Now, I have decided. She understands my
                                            financial situation. She knows that I am almost entirely
                                            dependent on you for support at present. If it had not
                                            been for the war and my confounded ill-health, I should,
                                            of course, have been quite independent by this time. I
                                            have explained my present unbearable situation to her in
                                            a general sort of way, and I know that she is in
                                            complete sympathy with me. Your resolve to not increase
                                            my allowance is, I suppose, irrevocable. I shall soon be
                                            in a position, I hope, to dispense with what you are
                                            already so gracious as to allow me. I have not deemed it
                                            wise to tell her at this time of my unfortunate and, as
                                            you say, foolish mismanagement of my affairs before and
                                            after father's death. When all is said and
                                            done, he didn't leave me very much. It went
                                            before I quite knew what was happening, and I submit
                                            that it was bad judgment due to my youth rather than to
                                            recklessness,  as old
                                            Mumford claims. I'll make him eat his words
                                            some day. Thanks for your cheque. You are a darling.
                                            You're the best mother a fellow ever had. I
                                            quite understand your position, so don't lose a
                                            moment's sleep thinking that I may be resenting
                                            your decision. I shall manage very nicely on what you
                                            give me. It is ample for my present needs. I shall
                                            probably find it rather humiliating when it comes time
                                            for a wedding journey, but, bless your dear old heart,
                                            I'll manage somehow.
                                        I am quite well and very happy. Hope you are the same. By
                                            the way, have you made that visit to Washington?
                                        Your loving son, COURTNEY.
                                            
                                        
                                         P.S.I am still looking for the little parcel I
                                            asked you to send me. Have you forgotten to attend to
                                            it?C. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        As Alix and her friends went out to the automobile, the big police dog
                            trotted beside Addison Blythe, looking up into his face with pleased and
                            friendly eyes. He allowed the man to stroke his head and rumple the
                            thick fur on his back.
                        "He likes you, Addison," said Alix, a serious little
                            frown in her eyes. "I can't understand his not liking
                            Courtney Thane. His hair fairly bristles and he growls like a bear every
                            time he sees him. Isn't it odd?"
                        Blythe looked up quickly. It was on the tip of his tongue to say
                            something tactless. What he did say was this:
                        "Can you blame the poor dog for being jealous?"
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE OLD INDIAN TRAIL
                    COURTNEY delayed. A certain aloofness on Alix's part caused him to
                        hesitate. Something in her manner following upon the visit of the Blythes
                        invited speculation. She was as pleasant as ever, yet he sensed a subtle
                        change that warned him of defeat if he attempted to storm the citadel. His
                        confidence was slightly shaken,but not his resolve.
                    "She's been different ever since those infernal Blythes
                        were here," he reflected aloud, scowling as he watched her pass in
                        the car several days after the departure of her guests.
                    She went to the city nearly every day now, and seldom returned before dark.
                        Somehow he felt that his grip was slipping. He was standing in front of the
                        Tavern. She had waved her hand to him, and had smiled gaily, but it was not
                        the first time that week she had failed to stop and repeat her usual
                        invitation for him to accompany her, even though she knew he would politely
                        decline. He resented this oversight. How could she know that he
                        hadn't changed his mind about going to the city? As a matter of
                        fact, he had changed it. He would have gone like a shot. Indeed, he had
                        dressed with that very object in view,and she had gone by with a casual wave
                        of her hand. His annoyance was increased by the remark of Mr. Nichols, who
                        was standing at the top of the steps at the time.
                    
                    "Thought you said you was going up to town, Courtney," said
                        the old man, with a detestable grin on his wrinkled visage.
                    "I didn't say anything of the kind," snapped
                        Courtney, and strode off angrily.
                    His stroll,and his reflections,took him up the old Indian trail along the
                        bank of the river. He wanted solitude. He wanted to be where he could talk
                        without fear of being overheard. There was much that he had to say to
                        himself.
                    The rarely used path through the willows and underbrush ran along the steep
                        bank, sometimes within a few feet of water. Once before he had walked a
                        couple of hundred yards over this ancient, hard-packed trail of
                        Tecumseh's people, but had been turned back by the sight of a small
                        snake wriggling off into the long grass ahead of him. That was in the warm
                        days of early September. There was no likelihood of serpents being abroad on
                        this chill October morning.
                    Leaving the road at the cut above the ferry landing, he turned into the
                        trail. A half hour's walk brought him to the gradually rising,
                        rock-covered slope that led to the base of Quill's Window. On all
                        sides were great, flat slabs of stone, some of them almost buried in the
                        earth, others sticking their jagged points up above the brush and weeds.
                        Back in ages dim these drab, moss-covered rocks had been sliced from the
                        side of the towering mound by the forces that shaped the earth, to be hurled
                        hither and thither with the calm disdain of the mighty. No human agency had
                        blasted them from their insecure hold on the shoulders of the cliff.
                        Uncounted centuries ago they had come bounding, crashing down from the
                        heights, shaken loose by  the convulsions of
                        Mother Earth, tearing their way through the feeble barrier of trees to a
                        henceforth place of security.
                    The trail wound in and out among these boulders, dividing at a point several
                        hundred feet south of the steep ascent to the top of the great black mound.
                        The main-travelled path turned in from the river at this point, to skirt the
                        hill at its rear. A more tortuous way, traversed presumably by the fishers
                        and hunters of the tribes, or perhaps by war parties in swift pursuit or
                        retreat, held directly to the bank of the stream and passed along the front
                        of the cliff.
                    Courtney took the latter branch. Presently he was picking his way carefully
                        along the base of the cliff, scrambling over and between the rocks that
                        formed a narrow ledge between the river and the sheer face of
                        Quill's Window. he was now some fifty or sixty feet above the cold,
                        grey water. Below him grew a line of stunted, ragged underbrush, springing
                        from the earth-filled fissures among the boulders. Across the river
                        stretched far away the farms and fields of the far-famed grain-belt.
                    He sat down upon a rock and gazed out over these fertile lands, now crowded
                        with shocks of corn or rusty with the dead glories of summer. There were
                        great square fields of stubble, fenced-in patches of pastureland, small
                        oases of woodland, houses and barns and silos as far as the eye could
                        reach,and always the huge red barns dwarfed the houses in which the farmers
                        dwelt. Cattle and sheep and horses, wagons and men, all made small and
                        insignificant in the sweep of this great and solemn panorama.
                    
                    The home of Amos Vick was visible, standing half-a-mile back from the river.
                        He looked hard and long at the house in which he had spent the first three
                        weeks of his stay in the country. So young Cale had gone off to join the
                        Navy, eh? Good! And Rosabel,what of her? What was she doing over at the old
                        Windom house that day? Could it have been she who was watching him? Looking
                        badly, too, they said. Such a strong, pretty, wind-tanned young thing she
                        was! How long ago was it? Not two months. ... He lit a cigarette and resumed
                        his way, the shadow of a fond smile lingering in his eyes.
                    Rounding the curve, he came to that side of the stone hill which faced up the
                        river. He had passed many small, shallow niches along the base of the
                        eminence, miniature caves from which oozed what might well have been
                        described as sweat. There were, besides, deep upright slashes in the side of
                        the rock, higher than his head, suggesting to the imagination the vain
                        effort of some unhappy giant to burst through the walls of his rocky
                        prison,some monster of a man who now lay dead in the heart of the hill. The
                        turn took him farther away from the river.
                    He was looking now into the tops of several tall sycamores that rose from the
                        low ground at the foot of the hill. Extending far to the north along the
                        river was a fringe of these much be-sung trees. The space between the
                        straight face of the cliff and the edge of the ledge on which he stood was
                        not more than seven or eight feet. It was possible, he perceived, for one to
                        continue along and down this natural path to the bottom of the hill, coming
                        out among the trees in the  low ground. The
                        descent, however, was a great deal more precipitous than the ascent from the
                        other direction.
                    Now that he was immediately below the cave known as Quill's Window,
                        he was surprised to find that the cliff was not absolutely perpendicular.
                        There was quite a pronounced slant; the top of the wall was, at a guess, ten
                        feet farther back than the foot. His gaze first sought the strange opening
                        three-fourths of the way to the top,a matter of eighty or ninety feet above
                        the spot on which he stood. There it was,a deep, black gash in the solid
                        rock, rendered narrow by fore-shortening and a slightly protruding brow. He
                        could think of nothing more analogous than an open mouth with a thick upper
                        lip and the nether lip drawn in.
                    Then he saw what surprised him even more,something that none of the
                        chroniclers had mentioned: a series of hand-cut niches up the face of the
                        cliff, leading directly to the mouth of the cave. He had been given to
                        understand that there was no other means of reaching Quill's Window
                        save from the top of the rock. These niches or
                        "hand-holds" were about two feet apart. He examined the
                        lower ones. They were deeply chiselled, affording a substantial foothold as
                        well as a grip for a strong, resolute climber. Most of them were packed with
                        dirty, wind blown leaves from the trees nearby,so tightly packed by the
                        furious rains that beat against the rock that he had difficulty in removing
                        the substance. Higher up they appeared to be quite clean and free from
                        obstruction.
                    He scraped the leaves out of five or six of the slits, one after the other,
                        as he climbed a short distance  up the wall.
                        Further progress was checked, not so much by lack of desire to go to the
                        top, but by an involuntary glance over his shoulder. He was not more than
                        ten feet above the trail, but the trail was shockingly narrow and uneven. So
                        down he came, quite thrilled by his discovery, to lean against the rock and
                        laugh scornfully over the silly tales about Quill's Window and its
                        eerie impregnability. Anybody could climb up there! All that one needed was
                        a stout heart and a good pair of arms. Closer inspection convinced him that
                        these niches were of comparatively recent origin,certainly they were not of
                        Quill's time. David Windom? Had that adventurous lad hewn this
                        ladder to the cave long before the beautiful Alix the First came to complete
                        the romance of his dreams?
                    No matter who cut them, they were still there to prove that Quill's
                        Window was accessible. According to tradition, no one had put foot inside
                        the cave since David Windom, in his youth, had ventured to explore its
                        grisly interior. Courtney promised himself that one day he would enter that
                        unhallowed hole in the wall!
                    Retracing his steps over the trail, he soon found himself in the village. He
                        was more cheerful now. He had talked himself into a better frame of mind.
                        ... She was shy. She had reached the turning point,the inevitable point
                        where women tremble with a strange mixture of alarm and rapture, and are as
                        timid as the questioning deer. What a fool he was not to have thought of
                        that!
                    There was a small package in his lockbox at the postofficeand two or three
                        letters. The package  was from New York,
                        addressed in his mother's hand.
                    He stopped at the general delivery window for a chat with Mrs. Pollock.
                    "I had forgotten all about my birthday," he said,
                        "but here's mother reminding me of it as usual. She never
                        forgets,and, hang it all, she won't let me
                        forget." He fingered the unopened package lovingly.
                    "Goodness me, Mr. Thane,is this your birthday?" she cried
                        excitedly. "We must have a celebration. We can't
                        allow"
                    "Alas, it is too late. Your super-efficient postal service has
                        brought this to me just forty-eight hours behind time. Day before yesterday
                        was the day, now that I think of it."
                    Mrs. Pollock mentally resolved to indite a short poem to him,
                        notwithstanding. She could feel it coming, even as she stood there talking
                        to him. The first line was already written, so to speak. It went:
                    
                        "The flight of Time has brought once more"
                    
                    He continued, oblivious to the workings of the Muse: "Twenty-nine!
                        By Jove, I begin to feel that I'm getting on in life." He
                        ripped open one of the envelopes.
                    Maude Baggs Pollock looked intently at the ceiling of the outer office, and
                        thought of line number two:
                    
                        "The busy Reaper to his door,"
                    
                    She hastily snatched a pencil from her hair and began jotting down these
                        precious lines. Fumbling for a bit of paper her fingers encountered an
                        envelope addressed to Alaska Spigg. The Muse worked swiftly.  Before she had dashed off the first two
                        lines, the second pair were crowding down upon them, to wit:
                    
                        "But while he whets his fatal scythe,
                        Gaze ye upon his victim lithe."
                    
                    At this juncture George Rice's son came in for a half dozen postal
                        cards, and while she was making change for a dime the Muse forsook her. Bent
                        on preserving the lines already shaped, she stuffed Alaska's letter
                        into the pocket of her apron, intending to copy them at the first leisure
                        moment. Unfortunately for Alaska, there was a rush of business at the
                        window, including an acrimonious dispute with Mrs. Ryan over the non-arrival
                        of a letter she was expecting from her son, and a lengthy conversation with
                        Miss Flora Grady who dropped in to say that her chilblains always began to
                        bother her in October. In the meantime, Courtney departed.
                    Two days later, Alaska Spigg received her letter, considerably crumpled and
                        smelling of licorice root,(a favourite remedy of Mrs. Pollock's)but
                        rendered precious by the presence of a mysterious
                        "quatrain" done in violet hues by some poetic wielder of
                        an indelible pencil. Guilt denied Maude Baggs Pollock the right to claim
                        authorship of these imperishable lines, and to this day they remain
                        unidentified in the archives of the Windomville Public Library, displayed
                        upon request by Alaska Spigg, their proud and unselfish donor.
                    Courtney read two of his letters. The third he consigned, unopened, to the
                        fireplace at Dowd's Tavern. The little package, minus the wrapping
                        paper, was locked away in his trunk.
                    
                    Charlie Webster, emerging from his office at the dinner hour,twelve
                        noon,espied Miss Angie Miller hurrying toward the Tavern. He hailed her,not
                        ceremoniously or even gallantly,but in the manner of Windomville.
                    "Hey!" he called, and Angie promptly responded, not with
                        the dignity for which she was famous but with an entirely human spontaneity:
                    "Hey yourself!"
                    She waited till he caught up with her.
                    "Have you had an answer to that letter, Angie?" he
                        inquired, glancing at a small bunch of letters she held in her hand.
                    "No, I haven't," she replied, somewhat guardedly.
                        "I can't understand why he hasn't answered,
                        Charlie,unless he's away or something."
                    "Must be that," said he, frowning slightly. "You
                        wrote nearly two weeks ago, didn't you?"
                    "Two weeks ago yesterday."
                    "Sure you had the right address?"
                    "Absolutely. Thirty-three Cedar Street. He's had an office
                        there for ever so long. I ought to know where my uncle's office is,
                        oughtn't I?"
                    "I thought maybe you might have got the wrong tree,"
                        explained Charlie.
                    "It's Cedar," said Miss Angie flatly.
                    "Cedar and pine are a good deal alike, except in" began
                        Charlie, doubtfully.
                    "Goodness!" cried Miss Angie, stopping short. "It
                            is Pine! How perfectly stupid of me! How utterly
                        reprehensible!"
                    Charlie stared at her a moment in sheer disdain.
                    "Well, by gosh, if that ain't like a woman," he
                        exclaimed  disgustedly. "I'd
                        hate to send you for a half dozen oranges if there were any lemons in the
                        market."
                    "He is such a well-known lawyer," began Angie humbly,
                        "that you would think the mail carrier would"
                    "What did you say his name was?"
                    "Joseph Smith. He is my mother's brother."
                    "East or West?"
                    "East or west what?"
                    "Pine Street. Same as North Fourth Street and South Fourth Street up
                        in the city. It runs both ways, Angie,you poor simp."
                    "I shall write to him again this evening," said Angie
                        stiffly. "And I'll thank you, Charlie Webster, to remember
                        that I am a lady and not a"
                    "I apologize, Angie," cried Charlie.
                    "You'd better!"
                    They walked along in silence for a few rods. Then Charlie spoke.
                    "You say your uncle was mixed up in a lawsuit of some kind
                        concerning the Thane family?"
                    "I remember it distinctly. It was five or six years ago, before my
                        mother died. He wrote her a letter about it when he found out that the
                        Thanes originally came from this neighbourhood. I don't remember
                        what it was all about, but I think it was some kind of a rumpus over
                        money."
                    "Well, you write tonight, Angie," ordered Mr. Webster;
                        "and remember it ain't Cedar, or Oak, or Mahogany.
                        It's Pine,the stuff you make boxes of."
                    Much to Courtney's dismay, Alix remained in town over night. He went
                        up to the house that evening,  only to receive
                        this disconcerting bit of information. Halfway home, he stopped short in the
                        road, confronted by a most astonishing doubt. Had she really stayed in town?
                        Could it be possible that she was at home and did not care to see him? Was
                        it an excuse? He compressed his lips. With lightning rapidity certain bits
                        of circumstantial evidence raced through his mind. In the first place, there
                        was Sergeant, the police dog. He wished he could remember whether he had
                        seen the animal in the car with her that morning. It was her custom to take
                        the dog with her when she went up for the day. One thing was certain:
                        Sergeant was now at home. Did that mean she had returned from the city?
                    And then there was another extraordinary thing,something to which he had not
                        given a thought till now. The dog was on the terrace when he strode up the
                        walk. Not only was he there, but he interposed his lean, bristling body
                        between him and the porch-steps, growling ominously and showing his teeth.
                        He did not bark. He merely stood there, daring him to approach. Courtney
                        remembered saying to himself:
                    "There's one thing sure, you and I can't live in
                        the same house, you filthy brute. You'd better learn how to say
                        your prayers, my amiable friend."
                    It was not so much the presence of the dog or his inimical attitude that
                        troubled him now as the fact that Mrs. Strong opened the front door without
                        having been summoned by the bell. What did that signify? But one thing:
                        either she or some one else had been waiting and watching for his
                        arrival,waiting behind the window curtains of a darkened room!
                    "Well,I'm damned!" he swore to himself, as the  blood rushed furiously to his head. For an
                        instant he saw red. "Good Lord, what have I done to deserve such a
                        slap in the face as this? What can be But, what the devil's the
                        matter with me? Of course, she's in town! I must be going batty.
                        Certainly she's in town. Shebut, even so, why should she have gone
                        off like this without saying a word to me about it? She didn't
                        mention it last night. Not a word. And she must have known then she was
                        planning to spend the night,why, by gad, I wonder if she calls that being
                        fair with me? Letting me trail up here tonight, expecting Any way you want
                        to look at it, it's rotten, just plain rotten!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    SUSPICION
                    
                        EARLY the next morning she called him up from the city. She explained
                            everything. The little daughter of her best friend had fallen
                            down-stair, injuring herself badly,perhaps fatally. She felt it her duty
                            to remain with the distracted mother,she hoped he would understand. And
                            she was in such a hurry to reach the city after the child's
                            father had called her on the telephone that she really did not have the
                            time to stop and explain. He would understand that, too,
                            wouldn't he? And she thought perhaps she would stay over
                            another night. She couldn't leave Marjorie,at least, not until
                            something definite was known.
                        He was vastly relieved. All his worry for nothing! He wished now that he
                            had remained in his room instead of going out a second time last night
                            to tramp about the dark, lonely village, driven forth by an ugly fit of
                            temper.
                        "But Mrs. Strong didn't say anything about the
                            accident," he said over the wire. "She simply said you
                            were in town for the night."
                        "I can't understand that," replied Alix.
                            "She knew why I came up to town, and I telephoned her during
                            the afternoon that I would stay overnight.
                        "She might have told me," he complained. "It
                            would have relieved my mind enormously. II was  horribly unhappy. Never closed my eyes. I thought you,that
                            is, I wondered if I had done anything to offend you. My Lord,
                            you'll never know how happy I am this minute. My heart is
                            singing. And to think it was like a lump of lead all last night. Do try
                            to come out this evening."
                        She did not answer at once, but he could plainly hear her breathing. Then
                            she said softly:
                        "Ifif the child is better. I can't leave Marjorie
                            untiluntil"
                        "I understand," he cried heartily. "What a
                            selfish beast I am. Don't give me another thought. Your place
                            is there. Because you are an angel!"
                        Later on he sauntered over to the postoffice. A number of men and women
                            were congregated in front of the drug store, among them Charlie Webster
                            and A. Lincoln Pollock. The latter had his "pad" in
                            hand and was writing industriously.
                        "What's the excitement?" Courtney inquired,
                            coming up to Charlie.
                        "Somebody poisoned Henry Brickler's collie last
                            night," replied Charlie. There was a dark scowl on his chubby
                            face.
                        "You don't mean that corking dog up at the white house
                            on the"
                        "Yep. That's the one," replied Charlie
                            harshly. "Anybody that would poison a dog ought to be tarred
                            and feathered."
                        "Who did it?"
                        "You don't suppose a man mean enough to give an
                            unsuspectin' dog a dose of poison would be kind enough to pin
                            his card on the gatepost, do you? I should say not!"
                        
                        "But why on earth should any one want to poison that big
                            beautiful dog?" cried Courtney indignantly. "Had he
                            bitten anybody?"
                        "Not as anybody knows of. Henry says he never harmed a living
                            soul. That dog"
                        "By George!" exclaimed Courtney suddenly.
                            "This reminds me of something. I passed a couple of men last
                            night down at the corner where you turn up to Miss Crown's.
                            They were leaning against the fence on the opposite side of the road,
                            and I had the queerest sort of feeling about them. I felt that they were
                            watching me. I remember turning my head to look back at them. They were
                            still standing there. It was too dark to see what they looked
                            like"
                        "Wait a second," broke in Charlie.
                            "Here's Bill Foss, the constable. Tell it to him,
                            Court."
                        The town constable, vastly excited, came up the street, accompanied by
                            two or three stern-visaged citizens.
                        "Well, by thunder!" growled the officer, wiping his
                            forehead. "Somebody's been making a wholesale job of
                            it. Dick Hurdle's 'Jackie' and Bert
                            Little's 'Prince' are dead as doornails. That
                            makes three. Now, who the hell,"
                        "Just a second,just a second," cried A. Lincoln
                            Pollock, elbowing his way into the thick of the new group. "Let
                            me get the facts. You first, Dick. Where did you find your
                            dog's remains? Now, take it calm, Dick. Don't cuss
                            like that. I can't print a word of it, you know,not a word.
                            Remember there are ladies present, Dick. You've got
                            to"
                        Mr. Hurdle said he didn't give a cuss if all the women in town
                            were present, he was going to say what  he
                            thought of any blankety-blank,and so on at great length, despite the
                            fact that the ladies crowded even a little closer, evidently reluctant
                            to miss a word of his just and unbridled blasphemy.
                        The occasion demanded the sonorous efficiency of Mr. Richard Hurdle. In
                            all Windomville there was no one so well qualified to do justice to the
                            situation as he. (Later on, Charlie Webster was heard to remark that
                            "as long as these dogs had to be killed, it's a great
                            relief that Dick's was one of 'em, because
                            he's got the best pair of lungs in town. He can expand his
                            chest nearly seven inches, and when he fills all that extra space up
                            with words nobody ever even heard of before, people clear over in
                            Illinois have to rush out and shoo their children into the house and
                            keep 'em there till it blows over.")
                        Doctor Smith came rattling up in his Ford, hopped out, and started to
                            enter the drug store. Catching sight of the druggist in the crowd, he
                            stopped to bawl out:
                        "Who's been buying prussic acid of you, Sam Foster?
                            What do you mean by selling"
                        "I ain't sold a grain of prussic acid in ten
                            years," roared Mr. Foster. "Or any other kind of
                            poison. Don't you accuse me of"
                        "Anything new, Doc? Anything new?" cried the editor of
                            the Sun, rushing up to the doctor.
                        "They got that dog of Alix Crown's. I tried to save
                            him,but he was as good as dead when I got there. Of all the damnable
                            outrages"
                        "Miss Crown's dog?" cried Courtney, aghast.
                            "Good God! Why,why, it will break her heart! She loved that dog! Men! We've got to find the scoundrel.
                            We've got to fix him. He ought to be strung
                            up. Has  any one called Miss Crown up,
                            Doctor? She is in the city. She"
                        "Mrs. Strong called her up. The automobile started for town
                            fifteen or twenty minutes ago to bring her home."
                        "Keep your shirt on, Court," warned Charlie Webster.
                            "You'll bust a blood vessel. Cool off!
                            There's no use talkin's about getting him. Whoever it was that planted these dog-buttons around
                            town was slick enough to cover up his tracks. We'll never find
                            out who did it. It's happened before, and the result is always
                            the same. Dead dogs tell no tales."
                        "But those two fellows I saw down at the corner last
                            night"
                        "Would you be able to identify them?"
                        "No,hang it all! It was too dark. It was about half-past nine.
                            Why, earlier in the evening I was at Miss Crown's. I saw the
                            dog. He was on the terrace. He growled at me,he always growled at me. He
                            didn't like me. Mrs. Strong came to the door and called him
                            into the house. I am sure he was all right then. When is he supposed to
                            have got the poison, Doctor?"
                        "This morning. She let him out of the house about seven
                            o'clock. Paid no attention to him till he came crawling around
                            to the kitchen door some time afterward. He just laid down and kicked a
                            few times,that's what makes me think it was prussic acid. It
                            knocks 'em quick."
                        "Come on, Charlie," cried Courtney, clutching the
                            other's arm. "We must go up to the house. There may be
                            some trace,something that will give us a clue."
                        He was at the house when the car returned without Alix. She had sent the
                            chauffeur back with instructions  to bury
                            the dog. She could not bear looking at him. She wanted it to be all over
                            with before she came home.
                        "I don't blame her," said Charlie soberly.
                            "Shows how much she thought of Sergeant when she's
                            willing to pay five hundred dollars reward for the capture of the man or
                            men who poisoned him."
                        "Where did you hear that?" demanded Courtney,
                            surprised.
                        "Ed Stevens says she told him to authorize Bill Foss to have
                            reward notices struck off over at the Sun office,
                            offering five hundred cash. She always said that dog was the best friend
                            she had on earth."
                        "But five hundred dollars! Why, good Lord, you can buy a dozen
                            police dogs for that amount of"
                        "You couldn't have bought Sergeant for ten times five
                            hundred," interrupted Charlie. "You see, as a matter
                            of fact, he didn't actually belong to Alix."
                        "You must be crazy. She has had him since he was a puppy three
                            months old."
                        "Sure. But, all the same, he didn't belong to her. He
                            belonged to David Strong. Davy got him in France in the spring of 1918
                            and sent him clear over here for his mother to take care of for
                            him."
                        Courtney was silent for a moment. "It's strange Miss
                            Crown never told me this," he said, biting his lip.
                        "Well," said Charlie quaintly, "far as that
                            goes, I don't suppose it ever occurred to her to tell Sergeant
                            he belonged to somebody else, but even if she had I don't
                            reckon it would have made a darn' bit of difference to him. He
                            would have gone on loving her, just the same,and workin'
                            twenty-four hours a day for her, Sundays and holidays included. A dog
                            don't care who he  belongs to,
                            Court, but he's mighty darned particular about who belongs to
                            him."
                        "I can't understand why he never seemed to like
                            me," mused Courtney.
                        "Well, maybe," began Charlie soberly, "maybe,
                            after all, he did sort of know that he was Davy
                            Strong's dog."
                    
                    
                        II
                        For three days Windomville talked of nothing but the "dog
                            murders." The Sun came out on Thursday with a
                            long and graphic account of the mysterious affairs of Monday night,
                            including the views and theories of well-known citizens. It also took
                            occasion to "lambast" Constable Foss with great
                            severity. The Constable, being a Republican, (and not a subscriber to
                            the Sun), was described as about the most incompetent
                            official Windomville had ever known, and that it would have been quite
                            possible for the miscreant or miscreants to have poisoned every dog in
                            town, in broad daylight, accompanied by a brass band, without Bill ever
                            "getting onto it."
                        It goes without saying that everybody in town was stimulated to
                            prodigious activity by the reward offered by Miss Crown. Notices were
                            stuck up in the postoffice and on all the telephone poles. A great many
                            embarrassing incidents resulted, and three fist-fights of considerable
                            violence occurred,for the gentlemen accused of the crimes took drastic
                            and specific means of establishing complete and satisfactory alibis.
                        Courtney Thane chafed under the prolonged absence of Alix Crown. Valuable
                            time was being wasted. He  had assisted at
                            the burial of Sergeant, and had shed tears with Mrs. Strong while Ed
                            Stevens, the chauffeur, was filling in the grave up back of the orchard;
                            and he had done further homage to the dead by planting a small American
                            flag at the head of the mound and,as an afterthought,the flag of Belgium
                            at the foot.
                        He felt that he had done very well by a dog that would have torn him to
                            pieces if encouraged by the merest whisper of the words "sic
                            'im!"
                        Alix returned late on Friday afternoon. He had a box of roses, ordered
                            from the city for him by Miss Flora Grady, awaiting her, and with them a
                            tender little note of sympathy.
                        She sat for a long time with Mrs. Strong. Her dark eyes softened and
                            filled with tears as David's mother gently stroked her hair and
                            sought by words to convince her that David would understand.
                        "It wasn't your fault, Alix darling," she
                            protested. "David won't mind,not in the least.
                            Sergeant didn't really mean anything to him. He was yours more
                            than he was David's. Don't you worry about
                            David's feelings, dear. He"
                        "You don't understand, Aunt Nancy,you don't
                            understand at all," Alix repeated over and over again in her
                            distress.
                        "You're just worrying yourself sick over it,"
                            said the older woman. "Why, you look all tuckered out, child,I
                            was shocked when you first came in. Now, don't be foolish,
                            dear. I tell you it will be all right with David. I wrote him all about
                            it, andwhat's that you are saying?"
                        "You don't suppose he will think Ithink I did it, Aunt
                            Nancy?" Alix whispered bleakly.
                        
                        "Think youfor the land's sake, Alix, what on earth are
                            you saying? Are you stark, staring crazy? You come right upstairs and
                            get into bed this minute. My land, II believe you're going to
                            be sick. You've got the queerest look in your eyes. Come on,
                            now, deary, and"
                        "I am sick,just sick with unhappiness, Aunt Nancy,"
                            sobbed the girl. "You don't know,you don't
                            understand. Oh, he couldn't believe I would do such a thing as
                                that! He couldn't think me so cruel, and
                            wicked andand spiteful."
                        "Now, listen to me," said Mrs. Strong sternly.
                            "What is the meaning of all this? What has happened between you
                            and David that makes you talk like this? Tell me,tell me this minute,
                            Alix Crown."
                        "Hasn't he told youwritten you about anything?" cried the girl.
                        "I don't know what you are driving at, Alix, but
                            whatever it is I know David hasn't got
                            anything against you that would make you say such things as
                            you've just been saying." She hesitated a moment and
                            then laid her hand on Alix's head. "I've been
                            wondering a whole lot of late, Alix. Have you and David had aa
                            misunderstanding?"
                        "Wewe don't like each other asas we used to, Aunt
                            Nancy," said the girl, lifting her head almost defiantly to
                            look David's mother full in the eyes.
                        "Is it David's fault?" asked Mrs. Strong after
                            a moment.
                        "II wish you wouldn't ask me anything more about it. At
                            least, not now."
                        "Is it David's fault?" demanded the other once
                            more, insistently.
                        
                        "I will say this much; it isn't my fault,"
                            replied Alix stiffly.
                        Mrs. Strong smiled,a tender, loving smile.
                        "I think I could straighten everything out if David were only
                            here," she said. "I would take you both across my knee
                            and give you a good sound spanking. It used to work beautifully when you
                            were children,and I think it would work now. II wonder if it would help
                            matters any if I were to spank No, I'm sure it
                            wouldn't. To do any good at all David would have to be here to
                            see me spanking you and to beg me to let you off and give it to him just
                            twice as hard."
                        "Oh, Aunt Nancy," cried Alix eagerly, "if you
                            only would! How I wish I were a little girl again! And
                            David a little boy!"
                        Then she fled from the room. Nancy Strong put her hand over her eyes and
                            sighed.
                        "I wish David were here," she said to herself.
                            "If he were only here today."
                        During dinner that evening Alix was strangely repressed. It was plain to
                            Mrs. Strong that she was inwardly agitated. After they left the table
                            she became visibly nervous. She was "fidgety," to
                            speak the thought of her perplexed companion. Time and again she started
                            and appeared to be listening intently, and always there was a queer
                            little expression in her eyes as of expectancy. Once or twice Mrs.
                            Strong surprised a flash of anxiety,aye, even fear,in them.
                        "You haven't read your letters yet, Alix," she
                            said at last, seeking for some means to divert the girl's
                            thoughts. "There is quite a pile of them there on the
                            table."
                        "I don't feel like reading letters tonight,"
                            said Alix.  "They can wait till
                            tomorrow." She arose, however, and hurriedly ran through the
                            pile. "I wrote to David before dinner, Aunt Nancy,"
                            she said suddenly. "A long letter about Sergeant's
                            death. I wanted him to know how miserably I feel about it."
                        "Bless your heart, he'll know that without your telling
                            him, child. I am glad you wrote to him, however."
                        Alix came to a letter addressed in an unfamiliar hand,a bold, masculine
                            scrawl. The postmark was Chicago. She tore it open. It began with
                            "Dear Alix." She quickly turned to the last page. It
                            was signed "Addison Blythe." A "thank
                            you" letter, of course.
                        Her back was to Mrs. Strong as she stood beside the table, bending
                            slightly forward to get the full light from the library lamp. She read
                            the letter through to the end; then she walked over to the fireplace and
                            threw it into the flames. Her face had lost every vestige of colour: 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR ALIX: [it
                                            began]
                                        You will no doubt throw this letter into the fire the
                                            instant you have finished reading it, and you will hate
                                            me for having written it. Nevertheless, I am doing so
                                            because I think it is my duty. I offer no apology. I
                                            only ask you to believe that my intentions are good. It
                                            is best to come straight to the point. I have talked it
                                            all over with Mary and she approves of this letter. What
                                            I am about to say still requires official confirmation.
                                            I do not speak with authority, you must understand. I am
                                            merely giving you certain bits of information I have
                                            obtained from men who were in France in 1915 and 1916.
                                            It rests with you to believe or disbelieve. In any case,
                                            if you are wise, you will at least take the trouble to
                                            investigate. I am at your service. If I can help you in
                                                 any way, please call
                                            upon me. If you desire it, I will provide you with the
                                            names of at least three men who were in Ambulance, all
                                            of whom have answered my letters of inquiry. One of
                                            these men met Courtney Thane in Paris in November, 1915.
                                            He was living at the Hotel Chatham with his mother. She
                                            had a husband up at the front. fighting with the French.
                                            This husband was a count or something of the sort and a
                                            good many years her junior. My informant writes me that
                                            young Thane, who drank a great deal and talked quite
                                            freely of family affairs, told him that his mother had
                                            married this young Frenchman a few months before the war
                                            broke out and went to Paris to live with him. He went so
                                            far as to say that the Frenchman married her for her
                                            money and he hoped the Germans would make a widow of her
                                            again before it was too late. According to this chap,
                                            Thane had also been in Paris since the beginning of the
                                            war. He spent money like a drunken sailor and touched
                                            nothing but the high spots. The second or third time he
                                            met him, Thane said he would like to get into the
                                            Ambulance. His mother, however, was bitterly opposed to
                                            his joining up. The last time he saw him, he had on an
                                            Ambulance uniform and was as drunk as a lord in one of
                                            the cafs. My friend had it straight from fellows out at
                                            Neuilly that Thane hadn't worn the uniform a
                                            week before it was taken away from him and he was kicked
                                            out of the service in disgrace.
                                        One of the other chaps has written me, saying that he was
                                            at the base hospital when Thane was stripped of his
                                            uniform. He was not a witness to this, but he heard
                                            other fellows and the nurses talking about it. Not only
                                            was his uniform taken away, but he was ordered to get
                                            out of Paris at once. They heard afterward that he went
                                            to Madrid with his mother. He was never at
                                            Pont-a-Mousson. It is obvious that he was not in the
                                            Vosges sector, in view of the fact that he lasted less
                                            than a week in the Ambulance, and did a vast amount of
                                            carousing in a uniform that I revere.
                                        
                                        It is up to you, Alix. The records of the American
                                            Ambulance are available. You can obtain all the
                                            information you desire, and I beg of you to get into
                                            communication with mr. Hereford or Mr. Andrew or some
                                            other official at once. I append below the addresses of
                                            several persons to whom you may write. They were high in
                                            authority. They will give you facts.
                                        I was convinced that Thane was not on the level when I
                                            met him that day. His stories did not jibe. I said
                                            nothing to you at the time, because I could not be sure
                                            of my ground. I think I am reasonably sure now.
                                        I may add that I have written to Col. Andrew and others
                                            on my own hook. If you care to see their replies, when I
                                            get them, I shall send them to you. All you have to do
                                            is to say the word. In any case, I ask you to believe
                                            that my devotion and Mary's deep and honest
                                            love are the excuse for this letter, which you may show
                                            to Mr. Thane if you see fit. I have no right to question
                                            his statement that he served in the Royal Air Force. I
                                            know nothing to the contrary. I speak only of the
                                            Ambulance. I am, dear Alix,
                                        Yours devotedly, ADDISON
                                                  BLYTHE.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE FACE AT THE WINDOW
                    
                        MRS. STRONG, observing her pallor, arose quickly and went to
                            Alix's side.
                        "What is it, dear?" she cried. "What was in
                            that letter? You are as white as a ghost." Receiving for answer
                            a pitiful little smile that was not so much a smile as a grimace of
                            pain, she placed her hand on the girl's shoulder. "Why
                            did you destroy it?"
                        "II don't know," murmured Alix through set,
                            rigid lips.
                        "Yes, you do know," said the other
                            firmly.
                        Alix looked dumbly into her old friend's eyes for a moment, and
                            then her honest heart spoke: "I destroyed it, Aunt Nancy,
                            because I was afraid to read it again. It was from Addison Blythe. He
                            has been making inquiries concerning Courtney Thane. In that letter he
                            said things which, if true, make Courtney out to be a mosta most
                            unworthy person."
                        She turned to look into the fire, her eyes narrowing. The black, flaky
                            remnants of the letter were still fluttering on the hearth. As she
                            watched, the draft caught them and sent them swirling up the chimney.
                        A high wind was blowing outside. It whistled mournfully around the
                            corners of the house. Somewhere on the floor above a door, buffeted by
                            the wind from an open window, beat a slow and muffled measure against
                            its frame.
                        David's mother saw the colour slowly return to her  companion's face. She waited.
                            Something akin to joy possessed her. She was afraid to speak for fear
                            that her voice would betray her. At last she said:
                        "We know nothing about Mr. Thane except what he has told us,
                            Alix."
                        The girl looked searchingly into her eyes.
                        "You do not like him, Aunt Nancy. I have felt it from the
                            beginning. Is it because you are David's mother?"
                        Mrs. Strong started. The direct question had struck home. She was
                            confused.
                        "Why,Alix,Iwhat a silly thing to ask. What has David to do with
                            it?"
                        Alix was still looking at her, broodingly. "Why don't
                            you like him, Aunt Nancy?"
                        "Have I ever said I didn't like him?"
                        "No. But I know. I know that Charlie Webster does not like him.
                            I knew that Addison did not like him."
                        Mrs. Strong could not resist the impulse to add: "And Sergeant
                            did not like him."
                        "And you think that convicts him?"
                            said the girl, half ironically.
                        "I have a good deal of faith in dogs," muttered Mrs.
                            Strong, flushing.
                        Alix's gaze went to the huge vase of roses on the table. Then
                            she turned quickly to look once more into her companion's eyes.
                        "You believe that Courtney poisoned him, don't
                            you?"
                        "I have no more reason for believing it than you have,
                            Alix," returned Mrs. Strong calmly.
                        "Why,why do you say that?" cried the girl, startled.
                        
                        "Because you would not have asked the question if you
                            hadn't beenwell, wondering a little yourself, Alix."
                        "Oh,I don't want to think it," cried Alix
                            miserably. "I don't want to think of it!"
                        "No more do I want to think it. Listen to me, Alix. I confess
                            that I do not like this man. I have no way of explaining my feeling
                            toward him. He has always been polite and agreeable to me. He has never
                            done a thing that I can call to mind that would set me against him.
                            Maybe it's because he is not of my world, because he comes from
                            a big city, because deep in his heart he probably looks down on us
                            Hoosiers. I will go farther, Alix, and say that I do not trust him. That
                            is a nasty thing to say. It is none of my business, but II wish you did
                            not like him so well, Alix."
                        "It would appear that my friends are taking more than an
                            ordinary interest in my welfare," said Alix slowly, and with
                            some bitterness. "Is it possible that you all believe me
                            incapable of taking care of myself?"
                        "Smarter women than you, Alix Crown, have been fooled by
                            men," said the other sententiously. "Oh, I
                            don't mean the way you think, my child,so don't glare
                            at me like that. I know you can take care of yourself that way,but how about falling in love? And getting married? And
                            finding out afterward that roses don't grow on cactus plants?
                            That's how women are fooled,and you're no different
                            from the rest of us."
                        "I think,I am quite sure that he is in love with me, Aunt
                            Nancy," said Alix, somewhat irrelevantly. There was no sign of
                            gladness, however, nor of triumph, in her dark, brooding eyes.
                        
                        "That's easy to understand. The point is, Alix,are you
                            in love with him?"
                        Alix did not answer at once. The little frown in her eyes deepened.
                        "I don't think so, Aunt Nancy," she said at
                            last. "I don't believe it is love. That is what
                            troubles me so. It is something I cannot understand. I don't
                            know what has come over me. I will be honest with you,and with myself. I
                            do not really trust him. I don't believe he is all that he
                            claims to be. And yet,and yet, Aunt Nancy, I,I"
                        "Don't try to tell me," broke in the older
                            woman gently. "My only sister thought she was in love with
                            Terry Moore, a fellow who had been in the penitentiary once for
                            stealing, and was a drunkard, a gambler, and a bad man with women, and
                            all that. She was crazy about him. She ran off with him and got married.
                            She never was in love with him, Alix. She hated him after a few weeks.
                            He just cast some kind of a spell over hernot a mental spell, you may be
                            sure. It was something physical. He was slick and smart and good
                            looking, and he just made up his mind to get her. A man can be awful
                            nice when he has once set his heart on getting a girl,and
                            that's what fools 'em, great and small. All the
                            mistakes are not made by ignorant, scatter-brained girls, my dear. My
                            father used to say that the more sense a woman has, the more likely she
                            is to do something foolish. Now, Alix dear, I know just how it is with
                            you. Courtney Thane has cast a spell over you. I believe in spells, same
                            as the old New Englander used to believe in witchcraft. You
                            don't love him, you don't actually believe in him. You
                                 you are sort of like a bird that is
                            being charmed by a snake. It knows it ought to fly away and yet it
                            can't, because it's so interested in what the snake is
                            going to do next. Thane is attractive. He is, far as I know, a
                            gentleman. At any rate, he would pass for one, and that's about
                            all you can expect in these days. The thought has entered both our minds
                            that he put Sergeant out of the way. Well, my dear, I don't
                            believe either of us would ever dream of connecting him with it if there
                            wasn't something back in our minds that has been asking
                            questions of us ever since he came here. You say you were afraid to read
                            Mr. Blythe's letter again. Does that mean you are afraid
                            everything he says is true?"
                        "Oh, I can't believe it,I must not allow myself to even
                                think it," cried the girl. "Why,
                            if what Addison says is true, Courtney Thane is not fit to There must be
                            some mistake, Aunt Nancy. There were two men of the same name. I will not believe it!"
                        The two tall women stood tense and rigid, side by side, their backs to
                            the fire, gazing straight before them down the lamp-lit room.
                        "Has Addison Blythe any reason for lying to you, Alix?"
                            asked the elder quietly.
                        "Of course not," Alix answered impatiently.
                            "There is some mistake, that's all."
                        "Do you mind telling me what he says?"
                        "Mr. Thane is coming to see me tonight," said the girl,
                            uneasily. "He may come at any moment now. What time is
                            it?"
                        "Ten minutes of eight. He never comes before halfpast."
                            She waited a moment, and then went on deliberately:  "I always had an idea it was because he wanted to
                            be sure Sergeant was in the house and not out in the yard."
                        Alix closed her eyes for a second or two, as if by doing so it were
                            possible to shut out the same thought that had floated through Mrs.
                            Strong's mind.
                        "But he need not be afraid of Sergeant now," she said,
                            with a little tremor in her voice. "He will come earlier
                            tonight." The unintentional sarcasm did not escape Mrs. Strong.
                            "Wait till tomorrow, Aunt Nancy. Then I may tell you."
                        "You are trembling, dear. I wish you would let me make your
                            excuses to him when he comes. Don't see him tonight. Let me
                            tell him"
                        Alix turned squarely and faced her. There was a harassed, haunted
                            expression in her eyes,and yet there was defiance.
                        "I stayed away five days," she said huskily.
                            "For five days I kept away from him. Then II gave up. I
                            couldn't stand it any longer. I had to come home. Now, you have
                            the truth. I just simply had to see him, Aunt Nancy,I
                            just had to."
                        "Then,then it is a spell," cried the
                            other, dismay in her voice. "You are not yourself, Alix. This
                            is not you who say these things."
                        "Oh, yes, it is!" cried the girl recklessly.
                            "I wanted to come home. I wanted to see him. I don't
                            love him, but I wanted to be with him. I don't trust him, but
                            here I am. Now you have it all! I want to see him!"
                        Mrs. Strong was looking past her. She stared hard at the window in the
                            far end of the room, her eyes narrowed, her chin thrust slightly
                            forward. Then suddenly  she clutched the
                            girl's arm, her eyes now widespread with alarm.
                        "Look!" she whispered shrilly, pointing.
                        The flush faded from Alix's face; the reckless, defiant light
                            left her eyes, and in its place came fear.
                    
                    
                        II
                        Plainly outlined in the window was the face of a masked man. A narrow
                            black mask, through which a pair of eyes gleamed brightly.
                        The exposed lower portion of the face, save for the heavily beared upper
                            lip, was ghastly white. Brief as this glimpse was, they were able to see
                            that he wore a cap, pulled well down over his forehead.
                        For a few seconds the two women stood as if petrified, their eyes wide
                            and staring, their hearts cold, their tongues paralyzed. They were
                            gazing straight into his shining eyes. Suddenly he turned his head for a
                            quick, startled glance over his shoulder. The next instant he was gone,
                            vanishing in the blackness that hung behind him like the
                            magician's curtain in a theatre. They heard rapid footsteps on
                            the veranda, the crash of a chair overturned, then a loud shout, and
                            again the sound of flying footsteps across the brickpaved terrace.
                            Another shout, and still another, farther away.
                        "Quick!" screamed Alix, the first to recover her voice.
                            "The telephone! Call the drug store. Bill Foss is
                            there."
                        She ran swiftly out into the hall.
                        "Come back!" cried Mrs. Strong. "What are you
                            doing? Don't open that door! He's got a pistol,
                            Alix!"
                        
                        Even as she spoke, the report of a pistol shot came to their ears. As
                            Alix stopped short, her hand outstretched to clutch the door knob, a
                            second report came.
                        "Oh, my God!" she cried. "He has killed
                            Courtney! He has shot Courtney!"
                        By this time, her companion had reached her side. She dragged her back
                            from the door.
                        "Killed Courtney? What's the matter with you? Why do
                            you say he has killed"
                        "Don't you seecan't you understand? It was
                            Courtney who surprised him. That's why he ran. He shot,oh, let
                            go of me! Let go of me, I say!"
                        "I'll do nothing of the sort," cried Mrs.
                            Strong. "Do you want to get shot? Come away from this
                            door!"
                        A door slammed against the wall at the back of the house. Some one came
                            running through the diningroom. First the cook, then the little
                            waitress, dashed into the hall.
                        "Wha-what is it? What's the matter?" shouted
                            the former. "What was that shootin'".
                        "Where is Stevens?" demanded Mrs. Strong, as she fairly
                            pushed Alix into the living-room. "Call him! Isn't he
                            out there in"
                        "He went out,half hour ago,out," stuttered the
                            waitress. "Who's beenwhat's happened to Miss
                            Alix?"
                        "Nothing! Go and yell for Ed! Thieves! On the porch.
                            Don't stand there, Hilda. Go out back and scream!"
                        "Oh, my God! Ed's killed! He's been shot! My
                            husband's been shot!" It was the cook who sent this
                            lamentation to the very roof of the house.
                        
                        Mrs. Strong whispered fiercely in Alix's ear:
                            "That's it! Ed is the one who surprised him. Courtney
                            nothing! Now, you stay here! I'll telephone. Don't you
                            dare go outside, Alix Crown. A stray bullet"
                        Far away sounded the third shot, muffled by distance and the shriek of
                            the wind. ...
                        Mrs. Strong was off somewhere trying to telephone. Shrill voices, out
                            back, were screaming. Alix stood alone in the middle of the long room,
                            staring at the window in which the sinister face had appeared. She had
                            not moved in what seemed to be an age. A strange, incredible thing was
                            creeping through her mind,a thought that was not a part of her,
                            something that seemed to shape itself outside of her brain and force its
                            way in to crowd out the fear and anxiety that had gripped her but a few
                            short moments before.
                        What would it mean to her if Courtney Thane were dead out there in the
                            night?
                        It was not the question but the answer that fixed itself in her mind. She
                            was unconscious of the one, but vividly aware of the other. His death
                            would meanemancipation! For one brief instant she actually longed for the word that he was dead! The reaction was swift,
                            overwhelming.
                        "God!" she gasped, shutting her eyes and clenching her
                            hands in an ecstasy of revulsion. "What a beast,what a horrible
                            beast I am! What a coward!"
                        Her knees trembled; an icy perspiration seemed to start out all over her
                            body. She had wished him dead! She had grasped at that
                            as the solution! Her heart had leaped joyously! It was as if some great
                            weight suddenly had been lifted from it. Now she was numb with horror.
                            What devilish power had taken possession 
                            of her in that brief, soul-destroying instant? She shuddered. She was
                            afraid to open her eyes. She reached out with her hand for the support
                            of the table. She had longed for some one to come and tell her that he
                            was dead!
                        Some one was pounding on the outer door. She had a dim, vague impression
                            that this pounding had been going on for some time. A sort of paralysis
                            benumbed her sensibilities. Her eyes were now wide open, staring. Had
                            her wish come true? Was some one come to tell her that her horrible wish
                            had come true? Suddenly the fetters fell away. She rushed frantically to
                            the door and turned the knob. The driving wind flung it open with a
                            force that almost swept her off her feet.
                        Thane stood on the threshold, hatless, panting. The light from the hall,
                            falling upon his face, revealed a long red stain that ran from temple to
                            chin. As she drew back, alarmed, he staggered into the hall, limping
                            painfully, and pushed the door shut behind him.
                        "Oh!" she gasped.
                        He shot a swift, searching glance down the hall and into the living-room.
                            Then he held out his arms to her. She was gazing spell-bound into his
                            eager, shining eyes. He waited. She came to him as if drawn by some
                            overpowering magnet. His arms closed about her. ... She was crushed
                            against his body, she seemed a part of him. His arms were like
                            smothering coils that pressed the life out of her; his hungry lips were
                            fastened upon hers, hot and lustful.
                        Presently she began to struggle. Shame,a vast, sickening shame,possessed
                            her. She was conscious of the wild, increasing lust that mastered him.
                            She tried to tear herself from contact with his body, as  from something base, unclean, revolting.
                            His kisses held her. She was powerless to resist the passion that swept
                            over her. Once more she surrendered,and then came the shame, the
                            overwhelming shame. She was debased, defiled! She put her hand to his
                            face and pushed frantically to release herself from those consuming,
                            unholy lips.
                        Suddenly he freed her, and sprang back, panting but triumphant. She heard
                            him whisper, hoarsely, rapturously:
                        "God!"
                        Some one was coming. He had caught the sound of footsteps,somewhere. Alix
                            sank breathless, rigid, almost fainting, upon the hall-seat.
                        "Darling!" he whispered passionately. She half arose,
                            caught once more by the irresistible spell that had first swept her into
                            his embrace. He shook his head. Then she heard him speak. He was looking
                            past her.
                        "I'm all right, Mrs. Strong. Don't mind me.
                            Telephone for help."
                        "I have telephoned," cried Mrs. Strong, coming toward
                            them quickly. "Help is coming. Good heavens! You are bleeding!
                            Were you hit?"
                    
                    
                        III
                        The question aroused Alix. She was aware of something wet and sticky on
                            the palm of her hand. She looked. It was covered with blood. Then she
                            remembered putting her hand against his cheek. As if fascinated she
                            stared for a second or two before her wits returned. Mrs. Strong must
                            not see that bloody hand.  She would know!
                            Guiltily she clenched her fingers again and thrust her hand behind her
                            back. She shuddered at the feel of the moist, sticky substance, and
                            turned suddenly sick. Her one thought was to get to her room where she
                            could wash away the tell-tale evidence. Again she heard him speaking,
                            and hung on his words.
                        "Nothing but a scratch. I fell while chasing him. He got the
                            start of me. My overcoat bothered me. I got it off, but not in time.
                            It's out there somewhere. My rotten old leg is the worst. I
                            twisted it when I jumped over the fence. That's when I fell.
                            Tripped over some bushes or something. I was gaining on him. Up in the
                            woods, you see. He was making for the road above. Oh, if this leg of
                            mine was any good, I would have" He broke off short to grip his
                            knee with both hands, his face twitching with pain. The sentences came
                            jerkily, breathlessly.
                        "Send for Dr. Smith!" Alix cried out suddenly.
                            "Be quick! He has been shot,I know he has been shot.
                            Go"
                        "It's a scratch, I tell you, Alix," he
                            protested. "He didn't get me. He fired at me, but it
                            was dark. I'm all right. There is no time to lose. If they get
                            after him at once they'll catch him. I can show them which way
                            he went. Where the devil are they? We ought to have every man in town
                            out there in the woods. Did you tell 'em to bring guns?
                            He's armed. He"
                        "You are hurt," cried Alix.
                            "You must have the doctor. Oh, for
                            heaven's sake, do something!" The
                            last was directed impatiently to Mrs. Strong.
                        "I'll give him a basin of water,and some court
                            plaster," said the older woman, who had looked closely  at the scratch on the young
                            man's cheek. "It doesn't amount to
                            anything,if that's all, Mr. Thane?"
                        "That's all,except my knee, and that will be all right
                            in a few minutes. Let me sit down here a minute. Not in
                            there,I'm covered with dirt and burrs and,I might get some of
                            this filthy blood on,that's all right, Mrs. Strong, thank you.
                            I'll be able to go out with the gang as soon as they come. Gad!
                            It's going to be great sport. Man-hunting!"
                        Alix was leaning against the end of the hall-seat, watching him as if
                            fascinated. He bent an ardent, significant look upon her, and her eyes
                            widened slightly under the contact.
                        "I'll get some water ready for you in the kitchen, and
                            a" began Mrs. Strong, but Alix, suddenly alive, intercepted her
                            with a cry.
                        "No! I will go, Aunt Nancy,I insist!" And before Mrs.
                            Strong could offer a word of protest, she flashed past her and was
                            running up the stairs.
                        A look of chagrin leaped into Courtney's eyes. He had counted on
                            another minute or two alone with her. Under his breath he muttered an
                            oath.
                        Alix's bedroom door opened and closed. Mrs. Strong was still
                            looking in astonishment up the staircase.
                        "Ishe's pretty badly upset, Mr. Thane," she
                            said at last. "That face in the window,and
                            everything."
                        "Good Lord,you don't mean to say you saw him?"
                        "Yes,looking in that window over there. Only for a second. You
                            must have scared him away."
                        "Then, by George, you can identify him!"
                        "He had a mask on. Didn't you see his face?"
                        "No. It was dark. Masked, you say. That's bad.  It will be hard to swear Still, I saw his
                            figure. Short, heavy fellow. Wore a cap."
                        She continued to look anxiously up the stairs.
                        "Wait here," she said shortly. "I must go up
                            to her. Go to the kitchen if you like, and wash the blood off.
                            I'll be back in a jiffy."
                        He waited till she was out of sight, and then limped into the
                            living-room,but with a swiftness incredible in one with a twisted knee.
                            Going direct to the fire-place, he took something out of his coat
                            pocket, and, after a glance at door and window, quickly consigned it to
                            the flames. A small black object it was, that crumpled softly in his
                            palm and was consumed in a flash by the flames. A moment later he
                            entered the kitchen, bringing consternation to the two excited
                            domestics, both of whom sent up cries of alarm at the sight of his
                            bloody face.
                        Meanwhile Mrs. Strong had surprised Alix in her bathroom, frantically
                            washing her hands. She looked up and saw the housekeeper standing in the
                            door behind her. The bowl was half full of reddish water. The expression
                            of disgust in her eyes remained for a moment and then gave way to
                            confusion. Neither spoke for some time.
                        "What are you doing?" asked Mrs. Strong.
                        "Oh, Aunt Nancy!" came in a choked voice from the
                            girl's lips.
                        "Is that blood?"
                        "Yes," replied Alix, looking away.
                        "II understand. Oh, Alix,Alix!"
                        "I don't know what made me do it,I couldn't
                            help myself. I Oh, it was terrible! I don't love him,I
                            don't love him! As long as I live,as long  as I live, I shall never forget it. I shall never know
                            anything like it again. I could feel my soul being dragged out of my
                            body, Oh, Aunt Nancy! What am I to do? What is to become of
                            me?"
                        "There's only one thing for you to do now,"
                            said the other, slowly, levelly. "Stay in this room. Lock the
                            door. Don't see him again. Keep away from him.
                            He'she's bad, Alix!"
                        "But he is not a coward!" cried the girl eagerly.
                            "He followed that man, he chased him, he was shot at,that is
                            not what a coward would do. Addison Blythe is mistaken. Those men are
                            mistaken. He"
                        "I hear people downstairs,and out in the yard. You must obey me,
                            Alix. You must not see him again tonight. God in heaven, what kind of a
                            spell has he cast upon you? The spell of the devil! Child,
                            child,don't you understand? That's what it is. The
                            spell that makes women helpless! Stay here! I will send Hilda up to
                            you."
                        "Why do you blame him for everything?" cried the girl
                            hotly. "Doesn't a woman ever cast this spell you speak
                            of? What defence has a man against"
                        "Do you call yourself an evil woman? Nonsense! Don't
                            talk like that. I am not blaming him. He can't help himself. He
                            loves you. That's not his fault. But you do not love him. You
                            are afraid of him. You would run from him if you could. He must go away.
                            You must send him away. Tell him of Blythe's letter. Face him
                            with it. Tomorrow,not tonight. You are not yourself tonight. Trust me,
                            dearest Alix. Do as I tell you. Promise."
                        "I will not come down," said Alix slowly, and Mrs.
                            Strong went out. She heard the key turn in the door.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    ROSABEL
                    ALL night long bands of men scoured the woods and fields, with lanterns and
                        dogs and guns. Courtney Thane, thrilled by that one glorious, overpowering
                        moment of contact, sallied forth with the first of the searchers. He showed
                        them where the masked man vaulted over the porch rail, and the course he
                        took in crossing the terrace, below which Courtney's coat was found
                        where he had cast it aside at the beginning of the chase. The first shot was
                        fired as the man climbed over the fence separating the old-fashioned garden
                        from the wooded district to the west, the second following almost
                        immediately. Thane was over the fence and picking himself up from the ground
                        after tripping when the last shot was fired. He ran forty or fifty yards
                        farther on and then his knee gave out. Realizing that pursuit was useless
                        under the circumstances, he hurried back to the house to give the alarm.
                    It appears that he first saw the man as he was nearing the top of the steps
                        leading to the terrace. The fellow's figure, in a crouching
                        position, was distinctly outlined against the lighted window.
                    "Kind of a funny time for a robber to be monkeyin' around a
                        house," said Charlie Webster, after Courtney had concluded his
                        brief story. "Eight o'clock is no time to figure on
                        breaking into a house."
                    "He probably figured that the occupants would be  at dinner," said Courtney.
                        "Or maybe he was getting the lay of the land while there were
                        lights to guide him. That is most likely the case. Lord, how I wish I had
                        had a gun!"
                    "Maybe it's lucky you didn't," said
                        Charlie. "Guns are pretty treacherous things to monkey with, Court.
                        You might have shot yourself."
                    "Oh, I guess I know how to handle a gun, Charlie," retorted
                        Thane, after a perceptible pause.
                    "Anyhow," remarked Constable Foss, "we now know
                        why that dog of Alix's was killed. This robber had things purty
                        well sized up. He knowed he had to fix that dog first of all,and that goes
                        to show another thing. He is purty well posted around these parts. He knowed
                        all about that dog. He ain't no tramp or common stranger. The
                        chances are he ain't even a perfessional burglar. Maybe some
                        dago,or, by gosh, somebody we all know."
                    A chosen group waited at the roadside above the Windom place for automobiles
                        which were to be used in the attempt to head off the invader. This was
                        Courtney's idea. He suggested a wide cordon of machines and men as
                        the only means of cutting off the fellow's escape.
                    "You're not likely to get anywhere, Foss, by keeping up a
                        stern chase," he argued. "He has got too big a lead. Our
                        only chance is to rush a lot of men out ahead of him in cars, and then work
                        back through the woods."
                    A boy came up with Courtney's fedora hat, which he had picked up in
                        the brush near the fence.
                    "There's a bullet hole through it, Mr. Thane," he
                        cried in great excitement. "Lookee here!"
                    
                    Sure enough there was a hole in the crown of the hat.
                    "Whew!" whistled Courtney, staring at the hat blankly.
                        "I never dreamed Why, good Lord, a couple of inches lower and
                        he'd have got me. I remember my hat blowing off as I got up, but I
                        thought it was the wind. Where did you find it, kid?"
                    "Back there by the fence."
                    "We must have that hat for evidence," said the constable.
                        "Shows the calibre of the bullet, and all that. Bring it down to
                        the office in the morning, Mr. Thane. Better put it on now. You'll
                        ketch cold out here bareheaded."
                    By this time the lane and grounds were alive with excited people,men, women
                        and children. Several automobiles approached, sounding their horns. Men were
                        shouting directions, dogs were barking, small children were squalling
                        lustily. Shadowy, indistinct figures scuttled through the darkness, here and
                        there coming into bold relief as they passed before the lamps of automobiles
                        or entered the radius of light shed by an occasional lantern. Half the town
                        was already on the scene, and the belated remainder was either on the way or
                        grimly guarding cash drawers in empty, deserted stores.
                    Courtney reluctantly announced that he did not feel up to accompanying the
                        searchers, his leg was bothering him so. No, he didn't need a
                        doctor. The confounded thing simply gave out on him whenever he got the
                        least bit reckless, but it seldom if ever amounted to anything. Only made
                        him realize that he couldn't "get gay" with it.
                        He'd be all right in a day or two. Hobble a little, that's
                        all,like a lame dog. More scared than hurt, you know, etc., etc.
                    
                    He picked his way through the ever-increasing crowd of agitated people,
                        avoiding rampant automobiles and inquisitive citizens with equal skill, and
                        approached Alix's gate. His blood was rioting. The memory of that
                        triumphant moment when her warm body lay in his arms,when her lips were
                        his,when his eager hand pressed the firm, round breast,ah, the memory of it
                        all set fire to his blood. She had come to him, she had clung to him, she
                        had kissed him! He had won! She was his! He must see her again tonight, hold
                        her once more in his arms, drink of the rapture that came through her lips,
                        caress the throbbing heart she had surrendered to him. Anticipation sent the
                        blood rushing to his head. He grew strangely dizzy. He narrowly escaped
                        being struck by a car.
                    "The darned fools!" he muttered, as he leaped aside into
                        the shallow ditch.
                    A figure separated itself from a group near the gate and approached him.
                        There were no lights near and the lane was dark. He could not see the face
                        of the woman who halted directly in front of him, barring the path.
                    "It is I, Courtney,Rosabel," came in low, tremulous tones.
                    He stood stockstill, peering intently.
                    "Rosabel!" he repeated vacantly.
                    "II saw you. The auto lamp shone on your face."
                    Her teeth were chattering. Her voice was little more than a whisper.
                    "Youyou poor child!" he cried. "What are you doing
                        here? How do you happen to be"
                    "I came over to spend the night with Annie Jordan.  II do that quite often, Courtney.
                        Aren'taren't you ever coming to see me again?"
                    "I was planning to come over tomorrow, Rosie,tomorrow sure.
                        I've been meaning to run over to your house"
                    "II thought you had forgotten all about us," she broke in,
                        pathetically. "You wouldn't do that, would you?
                        Didn't you get my letters? I wrote four or five times and you never
                        answered. Youyou haven't forgotten, have you?"
                    "Bless your heart, no! I should say not. I've been so busy.
                        Working like a dog on my book. The one we talked about, Rosie. The story of
                        my experiences over in France, you know."
                    "Oh, Courtney, are you really, truly writing it?" she cried
                        eagerly.
                    "Sure," he replied. "It's a tough job,
                        believe me. I've been so busy I haven't
                        even had time to write letters. Mother complains that I never write to her.
                        Dear old mater,I ought to be kicked for neglecting her. Stacks of unanswered
                        letters. Really, it's appalling. But I've just got to
                        finish this work. The publisher wants it before Christmas."
                    "You promised to read it to me as you wrote it, Courtney,"
                        she murmured wistfully. "Don't you remember?"
                    "Just as soon as I've got it in little better shape, Rosie.
                        You see, it's an awful mess now. I'm trying so hard to
                        concentrate. It would be different if I were an experienced writer. But
                        I'm a terrible duffer, you know. The least little thing throws me
                        off. I"
                    "I wouldn't interfere for the world, Courtney. I will wait.
                        I don't want to bother you. Please don't  think about reading it to me now. But,oh,
                        Courtney, I have wanted to see you so much. You will come
                        over, won't you. Or would you rather have me come"
                    "I'll be over, Rosie,tomorrow," he said hastily.
                        "Or the day after, sure. I'm all done up. I can hardly
                        stand on this leg. Did they tell you? I chased the robber up through the
                        woods. Had a bad fall. Bunged up this rotten old knee again."
                    "You poor boy," she cried. "Yes, I heard them
                        talking about how brave you were. And he shot at you, too. I saw the plaster
                        on your face when the light shone on it a while ago. I was frightened. I
                        forgot to ask you how bad it is. I forgot everything butbut just speaking to
                        you. Is it dangerous? Is it a bad wound?"
                    "I don't know. The doctor is waiting for me up at Miss
                        Crown's. They sent me back, the other fellows did. I wanted to go
                        with the gang,but I was weak and Oh, I'll be all right.
                        Don't you worry, little girl. Dr. Smith may slap me into
                        bed,"
                    "You must not be foolish, Courtney. Do what the doctor says. You
                        must get welloh, you must get well!"
                    She had come quite close to him and was peering at his face. Even in the
                        darkness he could see her big, dark eyes. Her teeth no longer chattered, but
                        there was a perilous quaver in her low, tense voice. She put out a hand to
                        touch him. He drew back.
                    "I'll be as fit as a fiddle in no time at all," he
                        said hurriedly. "See you tomorrow, Rosie,or as soon as the blamed
                        old doctor turns me loose. I've got to be on my way now.
                        He's waiting for me up there. May 
                        have to put a stitch in my mug,and yank my leg like the devil, but"
                    She still blocked his path.
                    "Courtney, I'mI'm terribly unhappy. I want to see
                        you,very soon."
                    "I hear you have been ill, Rosie. Some one was telling me you were
                        looking thin andand all that sort of thing. I hope you're feeling
                        better."
                    She waited a moment. When she spoke it was with difficulty.
                    "I'm awfully worried, Courtney," she cried, her
                        voice little more than a whisper. He was silent, so after a little while she
                        went on: "I wish I could die,I wish I could die!"
                    "Come, come!" he said reassuringly. "You must not
                        talk like that, Rosie. Cheer up! You're too young to talk about
                        dying. Think what I've been through,and I'm still alive!
                        I'll run over tomorrow,or next day,and try to cheer you up a bit,
                        little girl. So long. I've got to see the doctor.
                        I'mI'm suffering like the dickens."
                    "I mustn't keep you, Courtney," she murmured,
                        stepping aside to let him pass. "Good night! Youyou will come, won't you? Sure?"
                    "Sure!" he replied, and limped painfully away.
                    A little later Annie Jordan found her standing beside the road, where he had
                        left her. She was looking up at the brightly lighted house at the top of the
                        lane.
                    "Goodness!" cried Annie. "I thought you were lost,
                        Rosie. Where on earth have you been?"
                    "Maybe I am lost," replied the girl, and
                        Annie, failing to see anything cryptic in the words, laughed gaily at the
                        quaintness of them.
                    
                    "Come on," she said, thrusting her arm through
                        Rosabel's, "let's go back home. There's
                        nothing doing here. And that wind cuts through one like a knife. Gee,
                        it's fierce, isn't it?"
                    "I don't want to go in yet," protested Rosabel,
                        hanging back. "Let's wait awhile. Let's wait till
                        Dr. Smith comes out. He's up there withwith Alix Crown. Maybe he
                        can tell us how"
                    "Doc Smith isn't up there. He's gone up the road
                        in his car with Dick Hurdle andwhy, Rosie, you're shivering like a
                        leaf. Have you got a chill? Come on home. We'll have Dr. Smith in
                        as soon as he gets back to"
                    "I don't want the doctor," cried Rosabel fiercely.
                        "I won't have one, I tell you. I won't have
                        one!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    SHADOWS
                    
                        GREATLY to Courtney's chagrin, his triumphal progress was
                            summarily checked when he presented himself at the door. He could hardly
                            believe his ears. Miss Crown was in her room and would not be able to
                            see any one that night. She was very nervous and
                            "upset," explained the maid, and had given orders to
                            admit no one. Of course, Hilda went on to say, if Mr. Thane wanted to
                            come in and rest himself, or if there was anything she or the cook could
                            do for him,but Courtney brusquely interrupted her to say that he was
                            sure Miss Crown did not mean to exclude him, and directed Hilda to take
                            word up to her that he was downstairs.
                        "It won't do any good," said Hilda, who was
                            direct to say the least. "She's gone to bed. My orders
                            is not to disturb her."
                        "Are they her orders or Mrs. Strong's orders?"
                            demanded Courtney, driven to exasperation.
                        "All I can say, sir, is they're my
                            orders, sir," replied Hilda, quite succinctly.
                        "All right," said he curtly. Then, as an afterthought:
                            "Please say that I stopped in to see if I could be of any
                            further service to Miss Crown, will you, Hilda?"
                        He was very much crestfallen as he made his way  down the steps to the lane. This wasn't at all
                            what he had expected.
                        There were a number of people near the gate. Instead of going directly
                            down the walk, he turned to the right at the bottom of the terrace and
                            cut diagonally across the lawn. Coming to one of the big oaks he sat
                            down for a moment on the rustic seat that encircled its base. Sheltered
                            from the wind he managed to strike a match and light a cigarette.
                            Assured that no one was near, he leaned over and felt with his hand
                            under the bench. His fingers closed upon an object wedged between the
                            seat and one of the slanting supports. Quickly withdrawing it, he
                            dropped it into his overcoat pocket, and, after a moment, resumed his
                            progress, making for the carriage gate in the left lower corner of the
                            grounds.
                        He had a sharp eye out for Rosabel Vick. He heard Annie Jordan's
                            high-pitched voice in the road ahead of him and slackened his pace. In
                            due time he limped up the steps of Dowd's Tavern.
                        Several women were in the "lounge," chattering like
                            magpies in front of the fire. There were no men about. He went in and
                            for ten minutes listened to the singing of his praises. Then, requesting
                            a pitcher of hot water, he hobbled upstairs, politely declining not only
                            the Misses Dowd's offer to bathe and bandage his heroic knee,
                            but Miss Grady's bottle of witchhazel, Miss Miller's
                            tube of Baume Analgesique and old Mrs. Nichols' infallible
                            remedy for every ailment under the sun,a flaxseed poultice.
                        The first thing he did on entering his room was to open his trunk and
                            deposit therein the shiny object he had recovered from its hiding-place
                            under the tree-seat.  Before hanging his
                            hat on the clothes-tree in the corner of the room, he thoughtfully
                            examined the bullet hole in the crown.
                        "Thirty-eight calibre, all right," he reflected. Poking
                            his forefinger through the hole, he enlarged it to some extent.
                            "More like a forty-four now," he said in a satisfied
                            tone.
                        Margaret Slattery brought up the hot water and some fresh firewood for
                            his stove, in which the fire burned low.
                        "Would you be liking a drink of whiskey, Mr. Thane?"
                            she inquired, with a stealthy look over her shoulder.
                            "You're all done up,and half-frozen, I
                            guess."
                        "Whiskey?" he exclaimed. "There ain't
                            no sitch animal," he lamented dolefully.
                        "Miss Jennie's got some cooking brandy stuck away in
                            the cellar," whispered Margaret. "We use it at
                            Christmas time,for the plum pudding, you know. I guess it's the
                            same thing as whiskey, ain't it?"
                        "Well, hardly. Still, I think I could do with a nip of it,
                            Maggie."
                        "I'll see what I can do," said Margaret, and
                            departed.
                        She did not return, for the very good reason that Miss Jennie apprehended
                            her in the act of pouring somthing from a dark brown bottle into a brand
                            new fruit jar.
                        "What are you doing there, Maggie?" demanded Miss Dowd
                            from the foot of the cellar stairs.
                        Miss Slattery's back was toward her at the time. She was
                            startled into hunching it slightly, as if expecting the lash of a
                            whip,an attitude of rigidity maintained 
                            during the brief period in which her heart suspended action altogether.
                        "I'mI'm getting some vinegar for Mr. Thane to
                            gargle with, Miss Jennie," she mumbled.
                            "He'she's got a sore throat."
                        "Let me smell that stuff, Maggie," said Miss Jennie
                            sternly. One sniff was sufficient. "You ought to be ashamed of
                            yourself, Margaret Slattery, leading a young man into temptation like
                            this. You may be starting him on the road to perdition. It is just such
                            things as this that"
                        "Oh, gosh!" exclaimed Margaret, recovering herself.
                            "Don't you go thinking he's as good as all
                            that. From what he was telling me at breakfast the other day, he used to
                            make the round trip to purgatory every night or so,only he said it was
                            paradise. Keep your old brandy. He wouldn't like it anyway. Not
                            him! He says he's swallered enough champagne to float the whole
                            American Navy."
                        "The very idea!" exclaimed Miss Jennie. "Go to
                            your room, Maggie. It's bad enough for you to be stealing but
                            when you make it worse by lying, I"
                        "I'm quitting you in the morning," said
                            Margaret, her Irish up.
                        "It won't be the first time," said Miss
                            Jennie, imperturbably.
                        Courtney sat for a long time before the booming little stove. He forgot
                            Margaret Slattery and her mission.
                        "I guess it took her off her feet," he reflected aloud.
                            "That's the way with some of them. They get panicky.
                            Go all to pieces when they find out what it really means to let go of
                            themselves. God! She's wonderful!"  He leaned back in the chair and closed
                            his eyes; a smile settled on his lips. For a long time he sat there,
                            fondling the memory of that blissful moment. A slight frown made its
                            appearance after a while. He opened his eyes. His thoughts had veered.
                            "What rotten luck! If it could only have been Alix instead of
                            that" He arose abruptly and began pacing the floor. After a
                            long time he sighed resignedly. "I mustn't forget to
                            telephone her tomorrow." Then he began to undress for bed.
                        He looked at his knee. There was a deep, irregular scar on the outside of
                            the leg, while on the inside a knuckle-like protuberance of considerable
                            size provided ample evidence of a badly shattered joint, long since
                            healed. Along the thigh there was another wicked looking scar, with
                            several smaller streaks and blemishes of a less pronounced character. He
                            placed some hot compresses on the joint, gave it a vigorous massage,
                            and, before getting into bed, worked it up and down for several minutes.
                        "Clumsy ass!" he muttered. "Next time
                            you'll watch your step. Don't go jumping over fences
                            in the dark. Gad, for a couple of minutes I thought I'd put it
                            on the blink for keeps."
                        The next morning, up in the woods above Alix's house, the crude
                            black mask was found, and some distance farther on an old grey cap, from
                            which the lining and sweatband had been ripped. The search for the man,
                            however, was fruitless. Constable Foss visited the camp of a gang of
                            Italian railroad labourers near Hawkins and was reported to be bringing
                            several indignant "dagoes" over to Windomville to see
                            if Courtney  or the two ladies could
                            identify them. He was very careful to choose men with thick black
                            moustaches.
                        Bright and early, Courtney repaired to the house on the hill. His
                            progress was slow. Aside from the effort it cost him to walk, he was
                            delayed all along the route by anxious, perturbed citizens who either
                            complimented him on his bravery or advised him to "look out for
                            that cut" on his cheek, or he'd have "a tough
                            time if blood-poisoning set in."
                        Mrs. Strong admitted him.
                        "Well, when will she be able to see me?" he demanded on
                            being informed that Alix was in no condition to see any one.
                        "I can't say," said Mrs. Strong shortly.
                        "Have you had the doctor in to see her?"
                        "No."
                        "Well, that's rather strange, isn't
                            it?"
                        "Not at all, Mr. Thane. She isn't ill. She has had a
                            shock,same as I have had,and she'll get over it in good
                            time."
                        "You seem to have survived the shock remarkably well, Mrs.
                            Strong," he said with unmistakable irony.
                        "How is the scratch on your face?" she asked, ignoring
                            the remark.
                        "Amounts to nothing," he replied, almost gruffly.
                            "I'll write a little note to Alix, if you'll
                            be so good as to take it up to her."
                        "Very well. I'll see that she gets it. Will you write
                            it here?"
                        "If you don't mind. I'll wait in case she
                            wants to send down an answer."
                        "I'll get you some paper and pen and ink,"
                            said she.
                        
                        "Some paper, that's all. I have a fountain
                            pen."
                        He dashed off a few lines, folded the sheet of note paper and handed it
                            to Mrs. Strong. He had written nothing he was unwilling for her to read.
                            In fact, he expected her to read it as soon as she was safely out of his
                            sight.
                        "She thinks she may feel up to seeing you tomorrow,or next
                            day," reported the housekeeper on her return from
                            Alix's room.
                        His rankling brain seized upon the words"tomorrownext
                            day." He had used them himself only the night before.
                            "Tomorrow,or next day!" He frowned. Hang it all, was
                            she putting him off? He experienced a slight chill.
                        "I will run in again in the morning," he said, managing
                            to produce a sympathetic smile. "And I'll telephone
                            this evening to see how she is."
                        All the way down the walk to the gate, he kept repeating the words
                            "tomorrow,or next day." In some inexplicable way they
                            had fastened themselves upon him. At the gate he turned and looked up at
                            Alix's bedroom windows. The lace curtains hung straight and
                            immovable. It pleased him to think that she was peering out at him from
                            behind one of those screens of lace, soft-eyed and longingly. Moved by a
                            sudden impulse, he waved his hand and smiled.
                        His guess was right. She was looking down through the
                            narrow slit between the curtains. Her eyes were dark and brooding and
                            slightly contracted by the perplexity that filled them. She started back
                            in confusion, her hand going swiftly to her breast. Was it possible that
                            he could see through the curtains? A warm flush  mantled her face. She felt it steal down over her body.
                            Incontinently she fled from the window and hopped back into the warm bed
                            she had left on hearing the front door close.
                        "How silly!" she cried irritably. She sat bolt upright
                            and looked at her reflection in the mirror of her dressing-table across
                            the room. Her night-dress had slipped down from one shapely shoulder;
                            her dark, glossy hair hung in two long braids down her back; her warm,
                            red lips were parted in a shy, embarrassed smile.
                        "I wonder But of course he couldn't. Unless,"
                            and here the smile faded away,"unless he possesses some strange
                            power to see through walls and Sometimes I feel that he has that power.
                            If he could not see me, why did he wave his hand at me?"
                        There came a knock at her door. She was seized by a sudden panic. For a
                            moment she was unable to speak.
                        "Alix! Are you awake?"
                        It was Mrs. Strong's voice. A vast wave of relief swept through
                            her.
                        "Goodness!" she gasped, and then: "Come in,
                            Aunt Nancy?"
                        "Courtney Thane has just been here," said the
                            housekeeper as she approached the bed.
                        "Has he?" inquired Alix innocently.
                        "He left a note for you."
                        "Read it to me," said the girl.
                        "'Dearest: I am grieved beyond words to hear that you
                            are so awfully done up. I am not surprised. It was enough to bowl
                            anybody over. I did not sleep a wink last night, thinking about it. I
                            have been living in a daze ever since. I cannot begin to tell you how
                                 disappointed I am in not being able
                            to see you this morning. Perhaps by tonight you will feel like letting
                            me come. Ever yours, Courtney.'"
                        "Well?" said Mrs. Strong, sitting down on the edge of
                            the bed.
                        A fine line appeared between Alix's eyes. She was deep in
                            thought.
                        "Have they caught the man?" she asked, after a moment.
                        "Not that I know of. What's more, they'll
                            never catch him. Bill Foss sent word up he was bringing several Italians
                            here to see if we could identify one of them as the man."
                        "How can we be expected to identify a man whose face was covered
                            by a mask?"
                        "Well, Bill is doing his best," replied Mrs. Strong
                            patiently. "We've got to say that much for him.
                            Charlie Webster was here early this morning to say that the police up in
                            town have been notified, and they're sending a detective out.
                            But he won't be any better than Bill Foss, so it's a
                            waste of time. What we ought to have is a Pinkerton man from
                            Chicago."
                        Despite the calm, deliberate manner in which she spoke, there was an odd,
                            eager light in Mrs. Strong's eyes.
                        "I wish you would go down to the warehouse, Aunt Nancy, and ask
                            Charlie to take the car and go up to the city. Tell him to call up the
                            Pinkerton offices in Chicago and ask them to send the best man they
                            have. No one must know about it, however. Impress that very firmly upon
                            Charlie. Not even the policeor Bill Foss. Have him arrange to meet the
                            man in town and give him directions and all the information possible.
                                 Please do it at once,and tell Ed to
                            have the car ready."
                        "That's the way I like to hear you talk,"
                            cried Mrs. Strong.
                        Half an hour later, Charlie Webster was on his way to the city. He had an
                            additional commission to perform. Mrs. Strong was sending a telegram to
                            her son David.
                    
                    
                        II
                        The next day a well-dressed, breezy-looking young man walked into
                            Charlie's office and exclaimed:
                        "Hello, Uncle Charlie!"
                        "Good Lord!" gasped Charlie Webster. "It
                            can't bewhy, by gosh, if it ain't Harry! Holy
                            smoke!" He jumped up and grasped the stranger's hand.
                            Pumping it vigorously, he cried: "I'd know that
                            Conkling nose if I saw it in Ethiopia. God bless my soul,
                            you'reyou're a man! It beats all how
                            you kids grow up. How's your mother? And what in thunder are
                            you doing here?"
                        "I guess I've changed a lot, Uncle Charlie,"
                            said the young man, "but you ain't? You look just the
                            same as you did fifteen years ago."
                        "How old are you? My gosh, I can't believe my
                            eyes."
                        "I was twenty-four last birthday. You"
                        "If ever a feller grew up to look like his father, you have,
                            Harry. You're the living image of George Conkling,and you
                            don't look any more like your mother than you look like
                            me."
                        "Well, you and Mother look a lot alike, Uncle Charlie.
                            She's thinner than you are but"
                        
                        "Well, I should hope so," exploded Charlie.
                            "Take a chair, Harry,and tell us all about yourself. Wait a
                            minute. Sam, shake hands with my nephew, Harry Conkling,Mr. Slutterback,
                            Mr. Conkling. Harry lives up in Laporte. His mother"
                        "Guess again, Uncle Charlie. No more Laporte for me.
                            I've been living in Chicago ever since I got married. Working
                            for"
                        "Married? You married? A kid like you? Well,
                            I'llbedarned!"
                        "Sure. And I'm not Harry, Uncle Charlie. I'm
                            Wilbur. Harry's two years older than I am. He's
                            married and got a kid three years old. Lives in Gary."
                        "You don't mean to say you're little Wilbur?
                            Little freckle-faced Wilbur with the pipe-stem legs?"
                        Mr. Webster's nephew took a chair near the stove, unbuttoned his
                            overcoat, and held his hands to the fire. He was a tall, rather awkward
                            young man, with large ears, a turned-up nose and a prominent
                            "Adam's Apple."
                        "I'm working for one of the biggest oil companies in
                            the world. We've got six hundred thousand acres of the finest
                            oil-producing territory in the United States, and we control most of the
                            big concessions in Honduras, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia andthirty million
                            dollar concern, that's all it is. Oh, you needn't look
                            worried. I'am not going to try to sell you any stock, Uncle
                            Charlie. That is, not unless you've got fifty thousand to
                            invest. I'll tell you what I'm here for. My company
                            wants to interest Miss Crown in"
                        "Hold on a minute, Wilbur," interrupted Charlie firmly.
                            "You might just as well hop on a train and go back to Chicago.
                            If you're expecting me to help 
                            you unload a lot of bum oil stock on Miss Alix Crown you're
                            barking up the wrong tree,I don't give a cuss if you are my own
                            sister's son. Miss Crown is my"
                        The young man held up his hand, and favoured his uncle with a tolerant
                            smile.
                        "I'm not asking your help, old chap. I've got
                            a letter to her from Mr. Addison Blythe, one of our biggest
                            stockholders. All I'm asking you to do is to put me up at your
                            house for a day or two while I lay the whole matter before Miss
                            Crown."
                        "I haven't got any house," said Charlie,
                            rather helplessly. "Wait a second! Let me think. How long do
                            you expect to be here, Wilbur?"
                        "I wouldn't be here more than half an hour if I could
                            get Miss Crown to say she'd take"
                        "Well, she's sick and can't see anybody for a
                            couple of days,'specially book agents or oil promoters. I was
                            just thinking I might fix something up for you over at the Tavern where
                            I'm staying. It won't cost you a cent, my boy.
                            I'd be a darned cheap sort of an uncle if I couldn't
                            entertain my nephew when he comes to our town,out of a clear sky, you
                            might say. I'll be mighty glad to have you, Wilbur, but
                            you've got to understand I won't have Miss Crown
                            bothered while she's sick."
                        "Permit me to remind you, Uncle Charlie, that I am a gentleman.
                            I don't go butting in where I'm not wanted. My
                            instructions from the General Manager are very explicit. I am to see
                            Miss Crown when convenient, and give her all the dope on our gigantic
                            enterprise,that's all."
                        "By the way,er,is that your automobile out there?"
                        
                        "It's one I hired in the city."
                        "Youerdidn't happen to bring your wife with you, did
                            you? Because it would be darned awkward if you did. She'd have
                            to sleep with Angie Miller or Flora"
                        "She's not with me, Uncle Charlie,so don't
                            worry. Of course, if it isn't convenient for you to have me for
                            a day or two, I can motor in and out from the city. Money's no
                            object, you know. I've got a roll of expense money here that
                            would choke a hippopotamus."
                        "Come on over to the Tavern, Wilbur. We'll see Miss
                            Molly Dowd and fix things up. Sam, if anybody asks for me, just say
                            I'll be back in fifteen minutes."
                        And that is how "Mortie" Gilfillan, one of the ablest
                            operatives in the Pinkerton service, made his entry into the village of
                            Windomville. Inasmuch as he comes to act in a strictly confidential
                            capacity, we will leave him to his own devices, content with the simple
                            statement that he remained two full days at Dowd's Tavern as
                            the guest of his "Uncle Charlie"; that he succeeded in
                            obtaining an interview with the rich Miss Crown, that he
                            "talked" oil to everybody with whom he came in
                            contact, including Courtney Thane; that he declined to consider the
                            appeals of at least a score of citizens to be "let in on the
                            ground floor" owing to the company's irrevocable
                            decision to sell only in blocks of ten thousand shares at five dollars
                            per share; that he said good-bye to Mr. Webster at the end of his second
                            day and departednot for Chicago but, very cleverly disguised, to accept
                            a job as an ordinary labourer with Jim Bagley, manager of the Crown
                            farms.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    MR. GILFILLAN IS PUZZLED
                    
                        THREE days passed. The village had recovered from its excitement. The Weekly Sun appeared with a long and harrowing account
                            of the "vile attempt to rifle the home of our esteemed and
                            patriotic citizeness," and sang the praises of Courtney Thane,
                            whose "well-known valour, acquired by heroic services during
                            the Great War," prevented what might have been "a most
                            lamentable tragedy."
                        Those three days were singularly unprofitable to the
                            "hero." He was unable to see Alix crown. He made daily
                            visits to her home but always with the same result. Miss Crown was in no
                            condition to see any one.
                        "But she saw this fellow Conkling," he expostulated on
                            the third day. "He sold her a lot of phony oil stock. If she
                            could see him, I"
                        "He came all the way from Chicago to see her,with a letter from
                            Mr. Blythe," explained Mrs. Strong. "She had to see
                            him. I guess you can wait, can't you, Mr. Thane?"
                        "Certainly. That isn't the point. If I had seen her in
                            time I should have warned her against buying that stock. She's
                            been let in for a whale of a loss, that's all I can say,and
                            it's too late to do anything about it. Good Lord, if ever a
                            woman needed a man around the house, she does. She"
                        "I will tell her what you say," said Mrs. Strong
                            calmly.
                        
                        "Don't you do anything of the kind," he
                            exclaimed hastily. "I was speaking to you as a friend, Mrs.
                            Strong. She means a great deal to both of us. You understand how it
                            stands with Alix and me, don't you? II would cheerfully lay
                            down my life for her. More than that, I cannot say or do."
                        "She will be up by tomorrow," said Mrs. Strong,
                            impressed in spite of herself by this simple, direct appeal. (All that
                            day she caught herself wondering if he had cast his spell over her!)
                        "Please give her my love,and say that I am thinking about her
                            every second of the day," said he gravely, and went away.
                        Alix had received another letter from Addison Blythe. Enclosed with it
                            was a communication from an official formerly connected with the
                            American Ambulance. It was brief and to the point:
                        Courtney Thane volunteered for service in the American Ambulance in Paris
                            in November, 1915. He was accepted and ordered to appear at the hospital
                            at Neuilly-sur-Seine for instructions. His conduct was such that he was
                            dismissed from the service before the expiration of a week, his uniform
                            taken away from him, and a request made to the French Military
                            authorities to see that he was ordered to leave the country at once. Our
                            records show that he left hurriedly for Spain. He was a bad influence to
                            our boys in Paris, and there was but one course left open to us. We have
                            no account of his subsequent movements. With his dismissal from the
                            service, he ceased to be an object of concern to us.
                        Alix did not destroy this letter. She locked it away in a drawer of her
                            desk. She had made up her mind to confront Thane with this official
                            communication. It  was an ordeal she
                            dreaded. Her true reason for refusing to see him was clear to her if to
                            no one else: she hated the thought of hurting him! Moreover, she was
                            strangely oppressed by the fear that she would falter at the crucial
                            moment and that her half-guarded defences would go down before the
                            assault. She knew his strength far better than she knew his weakness.
                            She had had an illuminating example of his power. Was she any stronger
                            now than on that never-to-be-forgotten night?... She put off the evil
                            hour.
                        And on the same third day of renunciation, she had a letter from David
                            Strong. She wept a little over it, and driven finally by a restlessness
                            such as she had never known before, feverishly dressed herself, and set
                            forth late in the afternoon for a long walk in the open air. She took to
                            the leaf-strewn woodland roads, and there was a definite goal in
                        mind.
                    
                    
                        II
                        Courtney remembered Rosabel Vick.
                        "I guess I'd better call her up," he said to
                            himself. "I ought to have done it several days ago. Beastly
                            rotten of me to have neglected it. She's probably been sitting
                            over there waiting ever since Gad, she may have some good news. Maybe
                            she is mistaken."
                        He went over to the telephone exchange and called up the Vick house.
                            Rosabel answered.
                        "That you, Rosie?... Well, I couldn't. I've
                            been laid up, completely out of commission ever since I saw you. ...
                            What? ... II didn't get that, Rosie. Speak louder,closer to the
                            telephone."
                        Very distinctly now came the words, almost in a wail:
                        
                        "Oh, Courtney, whywhy do you lie to me?"
                        "Lie to you? My dear girl, do you know what you are"
                        A low moan, and a harsh, choking sob smote his ear, and then the click of
                            the receiver on the hook.
                        "Well, I'll be hanged!" he muttered angrily.
                            "That's the last time I'll call you up, take
                            it from me."
                        And it was the last time he ever called her up.
                        Then he, too, ravaged by uneasy thoughts, struck off into the country
                            lanes, the better to commune with himself. In due course, he came to the
                            gate leading up to the top of Quill's Window. Here he lagged.
                            His gaze went across the strip of pasture-land to the deserted house
                            above the main-travelled road. He started. His gaze grew more intense. A
                            lone figure traversed the highway. It turned in at the gate, and, as he
                            watched, strode swiftly up the path to the front door. ... He saw her
                            bend over, evidently to insert a key in the lock. Then the door opened
                            and closed behind her.
                    
                    
                        III
                        Every word of David's letter was impressed on Alix's
                            brain. Over and over again she repeated to herself certain passages as
                            she strode rapidly through the winding lanes. She spoke them tenderly,
                            wonderingly, and her eyes were shining. 
                                
                                    
                                        DEAREST ALIX:
                                        
                                        I have always loved you. I want you to know it. There has
                                            never been an hour in all these years that I have not
                                            thought of you, that your dear face has not been before
                                            me. In France, here, everywhere,always I am looking into
                                            your eyes, always I am hearing your voice, always I am
                                                 feeling the gentle
                                            touch of your hand. Now you know. I could not have told
                                            you before. I am the blacksmith's son. God
                                            knows I am not ashamed of that. But I cannot forget, nor
                                            can you, that a blacksmith's son lies buried at
                                            the top of that grim old hill, and that he was not good
                                            enough for the daughter of a Windom. I hear that you
                                            have given your heart to some one else. You will marry
                                            him. But to the end of your days,and I hope they may be
                                            many,I want you to know that there is one man who will
                                            love you with all his heart and all his soul to the end
                                            of his days. I hope you will be happy.
                                            It is my greatest, my only wish. Once upon a time, we
                                            stole away, you and I, to write romances of love and
                                            adventure. Even then, you were my heroine. I was putting
                                            you into my poor story, but you were putting your dreams
                                            into yours, and I was not your dream hero. Then we would
                                            read to each other what we had written. Do you remember
                                            how guardedly we read and how stealthy we were so as not
                                            to arouse suspicion or attract attention to our lair? I
                                            shall never forget those happy hours. Every line I wrote
                                            and read to you, Alix dear, was of you and for you. You were my heroine. My hero, feeble
                                            creature, told you how much I loved you, and you never
                                            suspected.
                                        I am telling you all this now, when my hope is dead, so
                                            that you may know that my love for you began when you
                                            were little more than a baby, and has endured to this
                                            day and will endure forever. I pray God you may always
                                            be happy. And now, in closing, I can only add the trite
                                            sentence,which I recall reading in more than one novel
                                            and which I was imitative enough to put into my own
                                            unfinished masterpiece: If ever you are in trouble and
                                            despair and need me, I will come to you from the ends of
                                            the earth. I mean it, Alix. With all the best wishes in
                                            the world, I am and will remain
                                        Yours devotedly, DAVID.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        P.S.I have just looked up from this letter to catch sight of myself in a
                            mirror across the office. I have to smile. That beastly but honourable
                            glass reveals the true secret of my failure to captivate you. How could
                            any self-respecting heroine fall in love with a chap with a nose like
                            mine, and a mouth that was intended for old Goliath himself, and cheek
                            bones that were handed down by Tecumseh, and eyes that squint a
                            littlebut I daresay that's because they are somewhat blurred at
                            this particular instant. I am reminded of the "Yank"
                            who had his nose shot off at Chteau Thierry. He said that now that the
                            Germans didn't have anything visible to train their artillery
                            on, the war would soon be over. He had lost his nose but not his sense
                            of the ridiculous. I have managed to retain both.
                        Up in that bare, dust-laden room, with the two candles burning at her
                            elbows, sat Alix. There were tears in her eyes, a wistful little smile
                            on her lips. She was reading again the clumsy lines David had written in
                            those long-ago days of adolescence. Now they meant something to her.
                            They were stilted, commonplace expressions; she would have laughed at
                            them had they been written by any one else, and she still would have
                            been vastly amused, even now, were it not for the revelations contained
                            in his letter. And the postscript,how like him to have added that
                            whimsical twist! He wanted her to smile, even though his heart was hurt.
                        Ten years! Ten years ago they had sat opposite each other at this dusty
                            table, their heads bent to the task, their brows furrowed, their hands
                            reaching out to the same bottle of ink, their souls athrill with
                            romance. And she was writing of a handsome, incredibly  valiant hero, whilst hehe was writing of
                            her! Time and again his hand, in seeking the ink, had touched the hand
                            of his heroine,she remembered once jabbing her pen into his less nimble
                            finger as she went impatiently to the fount of romance, and he had
                            exclaimed with a grimace: "Gee, you must have struck a snag,
                            Alix!" She recalled the words as of yesterday, almost as of
                            this very moment, and her arrogant rejoinder, "Well, why
                            can't you keep your hand out of the way?"
                        She was always hurting him, and he was always patient. She was always
                            sorry, and he was always forgiving. She was superior in her weakness, he
                            was gentle in his strength.
                        And his heroine? She read through the mist that filled her eyes and saw
                            herself. The lofty heroine wooed by the poor and humble musician who
                            crept up from unutterable depths to worship unseen at her feet!
                            "The Phantom Singer!" The lover she could not see
                            because her starry eyes were fixed upon the peak! And yet he stood
                            beneath her casement window and sang her to sleep, lulled her into sweet
                            dreams,and went his lonely way in the chill of the morning hours, only
                            to return again at nightfall.
                        She looked up from the sheet she held. She stared, not into space, but at
                            the face of David Strong, sitting opposite,the phantom singer. It was as
                            plain to her as if he were actually there. She looked into his deep grey
                            eyes, honest and true and smiling.
                        What was it he said in his letter? About his nose and mouth and eyes?
                            They were before her now. That keen, boyish face with its coat of
                            tan,its broad, whimsical mouth and the white, even teeth that once on a
                                 dare had cracked a walnut for her;
                            its rugged jaw and the long, straight nose; its wide forehead and the
                            straight eyebrows; and the thick hair as black as the raven's
                            wing, rumpled by fingers that strove desperately to encourage a
                            recalcitrant brain; and those big, bony hands, so large that her little
                            brown paws were lost in them; and the broad shoulders hunched over the
                            table, supported by widespread elbows that encroached upon her allotted
                            space so often that she had to remind him: "I do wish
                            you'd watch what you're doing," and he would
                            get up and meekly recover the scattered sheets of paper from the floor.
                            Ugly? David ugly? Why, he was beautiful!
                        
                        Suddenly her head dropped upon her arms, now resting on David's
                            manuscript; she sobbed.
                        "Oh, Davy,Davy, I wish you were here! I wish you were here
                            now!"
                        The creaking of the stairs startled her. She half arose and stared at the
                            open door, expecting to seethe ghost! Goose-flesh crept out all over
                            her. The ghost that people said came to
                        The very corporeal presence of Courtney Thane appeared in the doorway.
                        For many seconds she was stupefied. She could see his lips moving, she
                            knew he was speaking, she could see his smile as he approached, and yet
                            only an unintelligible mumble came to her ears.
                        "and so I cut across the field and ventured in where angels do
                            not fear to tread," were the first words that possessed any
                            degree of coherency for her.
                        She hastily thrust the precious manuscript into the drawer. He stopped
                            several feet away and looked about the room curiously, his gaze coming
                            back to her  after a moment. The light of
                            the candles was full on her face.
                        "Well, of all the queer places," he said.
                            "What in the world brings you here? I thought no one ever
                            entered this house, Alix."
                        "I have not been inside this house in ten years," she
                            said, struggling for control of herself. "I came today toto
                            look for some papers that were left here. I was on the point of leaving
                            when you came up." She picked up her gloves from the table.
                        "It's cold here. Do you think it was wise for you to
                            sit here in this chilly Gad, it's like an ice-house or a tomb.
                            Better let me give you my coat." He started to remove his
                            overcoat. There was an anxious, solicitous expression in his eyes.
                        "No,no, thank you. I am quite warm,and I shall be as warm as
                            toast after I've walked a little way. I must be going now, Mr.
                            Thane." She took a few steps toward the door.
                        "Are you going away without blowing the candles out?"
                            he inquired.
                        She halted. She felt herself trapped. She did not want to be alone in the
                            dark with him.
                        "If you will go ahead while there is light, I will
                            follow" The solution came suddenly. "How stupid! There
                            is nothing to prevent us carrying the candles downstairs with us, is
                            there? Will you take one, please?"
                        She returned to the table and took up one of the candlesticks.
                        "I've been terribly worried about you, Alix,"
                            he said, without moving. "How wonderful it is to see you
                            again,to see what is really you and not the girl I've  seen in dreams for the past few endless
                            nights. You in the flesh, you with your beautiful eyes, you whose
                            lipsoh, God, II have been nearly mad, Alix. A thousand times I have felt
                            you in my arms,you've never been out of them in my thoughts.
                            I"
                        "Pleaseplease!" she cried, shrinking back and putting
                            her hands to her temples.
                        Still he did not move. There was a gentleness in his voice, a softness
                            that disarmed her. It was not the voice of a conqueror, rather it was
                            that of a suppliant.
                        "I am not worthy to touch the hem of your garment," he
                            went on, an expression of pain leaping swiftly to his eyes. "I
                            am most unworthy. My life has not been perfect. I have done many things
                            that I am ashamed of, things I would give my soul to recall. But my love
                            for you, Alix Crown, is perfect. All the good that God ever put into me
                            is in this feeling I have for you. You are the very soul of me. If you
                            tell me to go away, I will go. That is how I love you. You do believe I love you with all my heart and soul,
                            don't you, Alix? You do believe that I would
                            die for you?"
                        Now she was looking into his eyes across the candle flames.
                            David's features had vanished. She saw nothing save the white,
                            drawn face of the man whose voice, sweet with passion, fell upon her
                            ears like the murmur of far-off music. She felt the warm thrill of blood
                            rushing back into her icy veins, surging up to her throat, to her
                            trembling lips, to her eyes.
                        "II don't know what to thinkI don't know what
                            to believe," she heard herself saying.
                        He came a step or two nearer. Her eyes never left his. She tried to look
                            away.
                        "I want you to me mine forever, Alix. I want you  to be my wife. I want you to be with me
                            to the end of my life. I cannot live without you. Do not send me away
                            now. It is too late."
                        Her knees gave way. She sank slowly to the bench,and still she looked
                            into his gleaming eyes.
                        He came to her. She was in his arms. His face was close to hers, his
                            breath was on her cheek. ...
                        "No! No!" she almost shrieked, and wrenched herself
                            free. "Not now! Not here! Give me timegive me time to
                            think!"
                        She had sprung to her feet and was glaring at him with the eyes of an
                            animal at bay. He fell back in astonishment.
                        "Youyou had no right to follow me here," she was
                            crying. "You had no right! This place is sacred. It is
                            sanctuary." Her voice broke. "My mother was born in
                            this room. She died in this room. And I was born here. Go! Please
                            go!"
                        He controlled himself. He held back those words that were on his tongue,
                            ready to be flung out at her: "Yes, and in this room you
                            behaved like hell with David Strong!" But he checked them in
                            time. He lowered his head.
                        "Forgive me, Alix," he said abjectly. "II did
                            not know. I was wrong to follow you here. I could not help myself. I was
                            mad to see you. Nothing could have stopped me." He looked up,
                            struck by a sudden thought. "You call this sanctuary. It is a sacred place to you. Will you make it sacred to
                            me? Promise here and now, in this sanctuary of yours, to be my wife, and
                            all my life it shall be the most sacred spot on earth."
                        She turned her head quickly to look at David Strong.  A startled, incredulous expression leaped into her eyes.
                            He was not there. By what magic had he vanished? She had felt his
                            presence. He was sitting there a moment ago, his tousled head bent down
                            over the pad of paper,she was sure of it! Then she realized. A wave of
                            relief surged over her. He was not there to hear this man making love to
                            her in the room where he had poured out his soul to her. She experienced
                            a curious thrill of exultation. David could never take back those
                            unspoken words of love. She had them safely stored away in that blessed
                            drawer!
                        A flush of shame leaped to her cheeks. She could not banish the notion
                            that he,honest, devoted David,had seen her in this man's arms,
                            clinging to him, giving back his passionate kisses with all the horrid
                            rapture of a She stiffened. Her head went up. She faced the man who had
                            robbed David.
                        "I cannot marry you," she said quietly. The spell was
                            gone. She was herself again. "I do not love you."
                        He stared, speechless, uncomprehending.
                        "Youyou do not love me?" he gasped.
                        "I do not love you," she repeated deliberately.
                        "But, good God, youyou couldn't have kissed me as
                            you"
                        "Please!"
                        "as you did just now," he went on, honestly bewildered.
                            "You put your arms around my neck,you kissed me"
                        "Stop! Yes, I know I did,I know I did. But it was not love,it
                            was not love! I don't know what it was. You have some dreadful,
                            appalling power toOh, you need not look at me like that! I
                            don't care that for your scorn. Call me a
                            fool, if you like,call me 
                            anything you like. It is all one to me now.
                            What's done, is done. But it can never happen again. I will not
                            even say that I am ashamed, for in saying so I would be confessing that
                            I was responsible for my actions. I was not responsible. That is all,
                            Mr. Thane. No doubt you are sincere in asking me to be your wife. No
                            doubt your love for me is sincere. I should like to think soalways. It
                            would help me to forget my own weakness. I am going. I want you to leave
                            this house before I go, Mr. Thane."
                        She spoke calmly, evenly, with the utmost self-possession.
                        "I can't let you go like this, Alix! I can't
                            take this as final. Youyou must care for me. How can I
                            think otherwise? In God's name, what has happened to turn you
                            against me? You owe me more of an explanation than"
                        "You are right," she interrupted. "I do owe
                            you an explanation. This is not the time or the place to give it. If you
                            will come to see me tomorrow, I will tell you everything. It is only
                            fair that you should know. But not now."
                        "Has some one been lying about me?" he demanded, his
                            eyes narrowing.
                        She waited an instant before replying.
                        "No, Mr. Thane," she said; "no one has been
                            lying about you."
                        He took up his hat from the table.
                        "I will come tomorrow," he said. At the door he paused
                            to say: "But I am not going to give you up, Alix. You mean too
                            much to me. I think I understand. You are frightened. II should not have
                            come here."
                        
                        "Yes, I was frightened," she cried
                            out shrilly. "I was frightened,but I am not afraid
                            now."
                        She had moved to Thane's side of the table, and there she stood
                            until she heard his footsteps on the little porch outside.
                        She was in an exalted frame of mind as she hurried from the house. The
                            short October day had turned to night. For a moment she paused, peering
                            ahead. A queer little thrill of alarm ran through her. She had never
                            been afraid of the dark before. But now she shivered. A great uneasiness
                            assailed her. She listened intently. Far up the hard gravel road she
                            heard the sound of footsteps, gradually diminishing. He was far ahead of
                            her and walking rapidly.
                        At the gate she stopped again. Then she struck out resolutely for
                            home,the Phantom Singer was beside her. She was not afraid.
                        A farm-hand, leaning on the fence at the lower corner of the yard,
                            scratched his head in perplexity.
                        "Well, here's a new angle to the case," he
                            mused sourly. "I'm up a tree for sure. Why the devil
                            should Miss Crown be meeting him out there in this old deserted house.
                            My word, it begins to look a trifle spicy. It also begins to look like a
                            case that ought to be dropped before it gets too hot. I guess
                            it's up to me to see my dear old Uncle Charlie
                            What's-His-Name."
                        Whereupon Mr. Gilfillan set off in the wake of the girl who had employed
                            him to catch the masked invader.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    BRINGING UP THE PAST
                    
                        CHARLIE WEBSTER wore a troubled expression when he appeared for dinner
                            that same evening. He was late. If such a thing were believable, his
                            kindly blue eyes glittered malevolently as they rested upon the face of
                            Courtney Thane, who had taken his place at table a few minutes earlier.
                            The fat little man was strangely preoccupied. He was even gruff in his
                            response to Mr. Pollock's bland inquiry as to the state of his
                            health.
                        "How's your liver, Charlie?" inquired the
                            genial editor. This amiable question was habitual with Mr. Pollock. He
                            varied it a little when the object of his polite concern happened to be
                            of the opposite sex; then he gallantly substituted the word
                            "appetite." It was never necessary to reply to Mr.
                            Pollock's question. In fact, he always seemed a little
                            surprised when any one did reply, quite as if he had missed a portion of
                            the conversation and was trying in a bewildered sort of way to get the
                            hang of it again.
                        "Same as it was yesterday," said Charlie. "I
                            don't want any soup, Maggie. Yes, I know it's bean
                            soup, but I don't want it, just the same."
                        "Going on a hunger strike, Charlie?" inquired Doc
                            Simpson.
                        "Sh! He's reducing," scolded Flora Grady.
                        "What's on your mind, Charlie?" asked
                            Courtney.
                        
                        Charlie swallowed hard. He made a determined effort and succeeded in
                            recovering some of his old-time sprightliness.
                        "Nothing, now that I've got my hat off."
                        "Have you heard the latest news, Charlie?" inquired
                            Mrs. Pollock, a thrill of excitement in her voice.
                        He started, and looked up quickly. "There's been so
                            blamed much news lately," he muttered, "I
                            can't keep track of it."
                        "Well, this is the greatest piece of news we've had in
                            ages," said the poetess. "Wedding bells are to ring in
                            our midst. Somebody you know very well is going to be married."
                        Mr. Webster's heart went to his boots. He stared open-mouthed at
                            the speaker.
                        "Oh, my Lord!" he almost groaned.
                            "Don't tell me she has promised to marry" He
                            broke off to glare venomously at Thane.
                        "Don't blame me for it, Charlie," exclaimed
                            the latter. "I am as innocent as an unborn babe. Charge it to
                            woman's wiles." He laughed boisterously, unnaturally.
                        Mr. Pollock spoke. "The next issue of the Sun
                            will contain the formal announcement of the engagement of the most
                            popular and beloved young lady in Windomville. No doubt it will be old
                            news by that time,next Thursday,but publication in the press gives it
                            the importance of officialty."
                        "We may congratulate ourselves, however, that we are not to lose
                            her," said Mrs. Pollock. "She is to remain
                            in"
                        "Whe-when is it to take place?" groaned Charlie,
                            moisture starting out on his brow.
                        
                        "That," began Mr. Pollock, "is a matter which
                            cannot be definitely announced at present, owing to certain
                            familyerahconditions. In addition to this, I may say that there is also
                            the children to consider, as well as the township trustee and, to an
                            extent, the taxpayer. The"
                        "All I've got to say," grated Charlie,
                            "is that the police ought to be consulted, first of
                            all."
                        "The police!" exclaimed Angie Miller.
                        "Thethe what?" gasped Furman Hatch, lifting his head
                            suddenly. He was very red in the face. "I'd like to
                            know what the devil the police have to do with it?"
                        Charlie took a look at Angie Miller's face, and then the truth
                            dawned upon him. He sank back in his chair so suddenly that the legs
                            gave forth an ominous crack.
                        "Don't do that!" cried Margaret Slattery
                            sharply. "You know them chairs are not made of iron. And I
                            don't want you flopping all over me when I'm passing
                            the stew"
                        "Yes, sir!" boomed Charlie, who had collected his wits
                            by this time, and was pointing his finger accusingly at Mr. Hatch.
                            "The police have simply got to be called. It's going
                            to take half the force, including Bill Foss, to keep me from drinking
                            the heart's blood of my hated rival. Ladies and gents, that
                            infernal, low-down villain over there has come between me andBut nobody
                            shall say that Charles Darwin Webster is a poor loser! Say what you
                            please about him, but do not say he is a short sport. It breaks my heart
                            to do it, but I'm coming around there to shake hands with you,
                            old Tintype. I'm going to congratulate you, but I'm
                            never going to get through hating you."
                        
                        He arose and bolted around the table. Mr. Hatch got to his feet and the
                            long and the short man clasped hands.
                        "Put her there, old boy! I've already made up my mind
                            what my wedding present is going to be. The day before the wedding
                            I'm coming in and order a dozen photographs of myself,pay for
                            'em in advance. And I'm going to give every darned one
                            of 'em to the bride, so's she can stick 'em
                            up all over the house just to make you feel at home, you blamed old
                            bachelor. And as for you, Miss Angelina Miller, the very topmost height
                            of my ambition will be reached in less than two minutes after the
                            ceremony. Because, then and there, I'm going to kiss you. Bless
                            you, my children. As old Rip Van Winkle used to say, 'may you
                            live long and brosper.'"
                        Having delivered himself of this felicitous speech, the somewhat relieved
                            Mr. Webster wiped his brow.
                        "What did he say?" quaked old Mrs. Nichols, putting her
                            hand to her ear.
                        "Says he hoped they'd be happy," bawled old
                            Mr. Nichols, close to her ear.
                        "Pass the bread, Doc," said Mr. Hatch, getting pinker
                            and pinker.
                        "When's it to take place, Angie?" inquired
                            Charlie, resuming his seat. He cast a sharp look at Courtney. The young
                            man shifted his gaze immediately.
                        "As I explained to Mr. Pollock, everything depends on my
                            aunt," said Angie composedly. "She is very
                            old,eighty-three, in fact."
                        "You don't mean to say your aunt objects to your
                            marrying old Tintype," exclaimed Charlie.
                        "Not at all," replied Angie, somewhat tartly.
                        
                        "You see, it's this way," volunteered Mr.
                            Pollock. "Miss Angie is the sole support of a venerable and
                            venerated aunt who lives in Frankfort. That is a thing to be considered.
                            Her duty to her father's sister"
                        Courtney interrupted, chuckling. "It's too much to ask
                            of any woman. I suppose it must take nearly all you earn, Miss Miller,
                            to support your aged relative, so naturally you do not feel like taking
                            on Mr. Hatch immediately."
                        There was a moment's silence around the table.
                        "I see by the Chicago Tribune," said
                            Mr. Pollock, after a hurried gulp of coffee, "that
                            there's likely to be a strike of the street-car men up
                            there."
                        "You don't say so," said Doc Simpson, looking
                            so concerned that one might have been led to suspect that he was
                            dismayed over the prospect of getting to his office the next day.
                        "What's the world coming to?" sighed Maude
                            Baggs Pollock Nervously. "Strikes, strikes everywhere. Murder,
                            bloodshed, robbery, revolution"
                        "Next thing we know," put in Charlie Webster, without
                            looking up from his plate, "God will strike, and when He does
                            there'll be hell to pay, begging your pardon, ladies, for using
                            a word that sounds worse than it tastes."
                        "I use it every day of my life," said Miss Flora Grady.
                            "It's a grand word, Charlie," she added, a
                            little defiantly.
                        "Times have changed," remarked Mr. Pollock blandly.
                            "It wasn't so very long ago that women said
                            'pshaw' when they wanted to let off steam. Then they
                            got to saying 'shucks,' and from that they progressed
                                 to 'darn,' and now
                            they say 'damn' without a quiver. Only yesterday I
                            heard my wife say something that sounded suspiciously like
                            'dammit to hell' when she upset a bottle of ink on her
                            desk. She hasn't stubbed her toe against a rocking-chair
                            lately, thank goodness."
                        Doc Simpson stopped Courtney as he was starting upstairs after dinner.
                            The dentist was unsmiling.
                        "Say, Court, I'm running a little close this week. Been
                            so much excitement a lot of patients have forgotten all about their
                            teeth. Can you let me have that ten you borrowed last week?"
                        "Sure," said Courtney, in his most affable manner.
                            "I'll hand it to you tomorrow. I'll give it
                            to you now if you'll wait till I run upstairs and get it out of
                            my trunk. That's my bank, you know."
                        "Tomorrow'll do all right," said Doc, a trifle
                            abashed.
                        "Can I see you a second, Mr. Thane?" called Miss Grady,
                            when he was halfway up the stairs.
                        He stopped and smiled down at her. "I hope you'll
                            forgive me if I don't come down, Miss Flora. My knee is still
                            on the blink. It hurts worse to go downstairs than it does up."
                        "I'll come up," said Miss Grady promptly.
                            "You remember those roses I ordered for you last week? Well, I
                            had to pay cash for them, including parcel post. You owe me seven
                            dollars and thirteen cents."
                        "I'm glad you spoke of it. I hadn't forgotten
                            it, of course, butI simply neglected to square it up with you. Have you
                            change for a twenty, Miss Flora?"
                        "Not with me."
                        "I'll hand it to you tomorrow. Seven-thirteen, you  say? Shall we make it
                            seven-fifteen?" He favoured her with his most engaging smile,
                            and Miss Grady, who thought she had steeled her heart against his
                            blandishments, suffered a momentary relapse and said, "No
                            hurry. I just thought I'd remind you."
                        He failed completely, however, to affect the susceptibilities of Miss
                            Mary Dowd, who presently rapped at his door, and rapped again when he
                            called out "Come in." He opened the door.
                        "Pardon me, Mr. Thane, for coming up to speak to you about your
                            bill. Will it be convenient for you to let me have the money this
                            evening?"
                        She did not soften the dun by offering the usual excuse about
                            "expenses being a little heavier this month than we
                            expected," or that she "hated to ask him for the
                            amount."
                        "Is it three or four weeks, Miss Molly?" he inquired,
                            taking out an envelope and a pencil.
                        "Four weeks today."
                        "Sixty dollars." He jotted it down. "I cannot
                            let this opportunity pass to tell you how thoroughly satisfied I have
                            been with everything here, Miss Molly. The table is really
                            extraordinarily good. I don't see how you can do it for fifteen
                            dollars a week, including room." He replaced the envelope in
                            his pocket, and smiled politely, his hand going to the door knob.
                        "We couldn't do it, Mr. Thane, unless we stuck pretty
                            closely to our rule,that is, of asking our patrons to pay promptly at
                            the end of every week."
                        "It's really the only way," he agreed.
                        "So if you will be kind enough to let me have the amount now, I
                            will be very much obliged to you."
                        He stepped to the head of the stairs, ostensibly to  be nearer a light, and took out his purse. While counting
                            out the bills, he cast frequent glances down into the lower hall. The
                            buzz of conversation came up from the "lounge."
                        "I think you will find the proper amount here, Miss
                            Molly," he said, after restoring the purse to his pocket.
                        She took the bank-notes and counted them.
                        "Quite correct, Mr. Thane. Thank you. By the way, I have been
                            meaning to ask how much longer you contemplate remaining with us. Pastor
                            Mavity has been inquiring for room and board for his sister, who is
                            coming on from Indianapolis to spend several months in Windomville. If
                            by any chance you are thinking of vacating your room within the next few
                            days, I would be obliged if you would let me know as soon as possible in
                            order that I may give Mr. Mavity an answer."
                        "I think I shall be leaving shortly, Miss Dowd. I can let you
                            know in a day or two," said he stiffly. "I am afraid
                            your winters are too severe for me. Good night,and thank you for being
                            so patient, Miss Dowd."
                        Meanwhile, Miss Angie Miller had taken Charlie Webster off to a corner of
                            the "lounge" remote from the fireplace. She was
                            visibly excited.
                        "I had a letter in this afternoon's mail from my uncle,
                            Charlie," she announced in subdued tones. "My
                            goodness, you'll simply pass away when you read it."
                        "Where is it?" demanded Charlie eagerly.
                        "I haven't even shown it to Furman," said she,
                            looking over her shoulder. "I've been wondering
                            whether I ought to let him read it first."
                        "Not at all," said he promptly. "It's
                            none of his  business. This is between you
                            and me, Angie. Let's have a look at it."
                        "I don't think you'd better read it
                            here," she whispered nervously. "Itit is very private
                            and confidential."
                        "That's all right," said Charlie.
                            "I'll sneak upstairs with it, Angie."
                        "Well, act as if you are looking out of the window,"
                            she said, and when his back was turned she produced the letter from its
                            hiding place inside her blouse.
                    
                    
                        II
                        Charlie retired to his room a few minutes later. There he perused the
                            following letter, written on the stationery of Beck, Blossom, Fredericks
                            & Smith, Attorneys-at-law, New York City: 
                                
                                    
                                        MY DEAR NIECE:
                                        
                                        Pardon my delay in replying to your letter of recent
                                            date. I have been very busy in court and have not been
                                            in a position to devote even a little of my time to your
                                            inquiry. Your second letter reached me yesterday, and I
                                            now make amends for my previous delinquency by answering
                                            it with a promptness most uncommon in lawyers.
                                        The firm of which I am a member appeared in 1912 for the
                                            plaintiff in the case of Ritter vs. Thane. Our client
                                            was a young woman residing in Brooklyn. The defendant
                                            was Courtney Thane, the son of Howard Thane, and no
                                            doubt the young man to whom you refer. In any case, he
                                            was the grandson of Silas Thane, who lived in your part
                                            of the State of Indiana. We were demanding one hundred
                                            thousand dollars for our client. Miss Ritter was a
                                            trained nurse. Young Thane had been severely injured in
                                            an automobile accident. If your
                                            Courtney Thane is the 
                                            same as mine, he will be walking with
                                            a slight limp. His left leg was badly crushed in the
                                            accident to which I refer. For several months he was
                                            unable to walk. Upon his removal from St.
                                            Luke's Hospital to his father's home
                                            in Park Avenue, a fortnight after the accident, our
                                            client was employed as a nurse on the case. This was
                                            early in the spring of 1912. In June the Thane family
                                            went to the Berkshires, where they had rented a house
                                            for the summer. Our client accompanied them. Prior to
                                            their departure, Thane, senior, had settled out of court
                                            with the occupants of the automobile with which his
                                            son's car had collided in upper Broadway. His
                                            son was alone in his car when the accident occurred, but
                                            there were a number of witnesses ready to testify that
                                            he was driving at a high rate of speed, regardless of
                                            traffic or crossings. If my memory serves me correctly,
                                            his father paid something like twenty-five thousand
                                            dollars to the three persons injured. That, however, is
                                            neither here nor there, except to illustrate the young
                                            man's disregard for the law.
                                        Miss Ritter had been on the case a very short time before
                                            he began to make ardent love to her. She was an
                                            extremely pretty girl, two years his senior, and, I am
                                            convinced, a most worthy and exemplary young woman. She
                                            became infatuated with the young man. He asked her to
                                            marry him. (Permit me to digress for a moment in order
                                            to state that while Courtney Thane was in his freshman
                                            year at college his father was obliged to pay out quite
                                            a large sum of money to a chorus-girl with whom, it
                                            appears, he had become involved.) To make a long story
                                            short, our client, trusting implicitly to his honour and
                                            submitting to the ardour of their joint passion,
                                            anticipated the marriage ceremony with serious results
                                            to herself. When she discovered that he had no intention
                                            of marrying her, she attempted suicide. Her mother, on
                                            learning the truth, went to Thane's parents and
                                            pleaded for the righting of the wrong. Howard Thane had,
                                            by this time, lost all patience  with his son. He refused to have anything
                                            to do with the matter. The young man's mother
                                            ordered Miss Ritter's mother out of the
                                            apartment and threatened to have her arrested for
                                            blackmail. Shortly after this episode, we were consulted
                                            by Mrs. Ritter, much against the wishes of her daughter,
                                            who shrank from the notoriety and the disgrace of a
                                            lawsuit. The elder Thane was adamant in his decision
                                            that his son should marry the girl, who, he was fair
                                            enough to admit, was a young woman of very superior
                                            character and who, he was convinced, had been basely
                                            deceived. The mother, on the other hand, was
                                            relentlessly opposed to the sacrifice of her son. We
                                            took the matter to court. On the morning of the first
                                            day of the trial, before the opening of court, the
                                            defendant's counsel came to us with a
                                            proposition. They offered to settle out of court for
                                            twenty-five thousand dollars. In the end, we accepted
                                            fifty thousand, and the case was dismissed. Afterwards
                                            counsel for the other side informed us that the elder
                                            Thane turned his son out of his home and refused to have
                                            anything more to do with him. I understand the young man
                                            went to Europe, where he subsisted on an allowance
                                            provided by his mother. Thane, senior, died shortly
                                            after this. Our client, I am pained to say, died with
                                            her babe in childbirth.
                                        You may be interested to know, my dear niece, that Mrs.
                                            Thane married soon after her husband's death.
                                            Her second husband was a young French nobleman, many
                                            years her junior. He was killed in the war, I think at
                                            Verdun. I understand she is now living in this city. Her
                                            present name escapes me, but I know that her widowhood
                                            has been made endurable by a legacy which happens to be
                                            one in name only. In other words, he left her the title
                                            of Countess.
                                        If I can be of any further service to you, my dear niece,
                                            pray do not hesitate to call upon me. Believe me to be
                                            ... etc., etc.
                                        
                                        Within ten minutes after the perusal of this very
                                            convincing indictment, Charlie Webster was on his way to
                                            Alix's home. He was quite out of breath when he
                                            presented himself at the front door, and his first words
                                            to Alix were:
                                        "While I'm getting my breath, Alix, you
                                            might prepare yourself for a shock."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE DISAPPEARANCE OF ROSABEL VICK
                    
                        EARLY the next morning, the telephone in township assessor
                            Jordan's house rang. Annie Jordan was
                            "setting" the breakfast table. She waited for the call
                            to be repeated; she was not sure whether the bell had rung thrice or
                            four times. Their call was "Party J, ring four." Four
                            sharp rings came promptly. She looked at the kitchen clock. It lacked
                            five minutes of seven.
                        "Gee," she grumbled, "I didn't know
                            anybody had to get up as early as I do." Taking down the
                            receiver she uttered a sweet "hello," because, as she
                            said, "You never know who's at the other end, and
                            it's just as likely to be him as
                            not."
                        "Is that you, Annie? This is Mrs. Vick. May I speak to
                            Rosabel?"
                        "Why, Rosabel isn't here, Mrs. Vick."
                        "What?"
                        "Rosabel isn't here."
                        There was a short silence. Then: "Are you joking with me, Annie?
                            If she isn't up yet, please tell her to"
                        "Honest to goodness, Mrs. Vick, she's not here. I
                            haven't seen her since day before yesterday."
                        "She said she was going over to spend the night with you. She
                            left home about four yesterday. Oh,  my
                            goodness, IIis there any one else she might have,I'm sure she
                            said you, though, Annie. Can you think of any one else? She took her
                            nightdressand things."
                        "She always comes here, Mrs. Vick," said Annie, and
                            felt a little chill creeping over her. "Still she may have gone
                            to Mrs. Urline's. She and Hattie are good friends. Shall I call
                            up and ask? I'll ring you up in a couple of minutes."
                        That was the beginning. Within the hour the whole of Windomville was
                            talking about the strange disappearance of the pretty daughter of Amos
                            Vick, across the river. Old Jim House, the handy-man at Dowd's
                            Tavern, inserted his shaggy head through the dining-room door and
                            informed the editor of the Sun in a far from
                            ceremonious manner that he had an "item" for the
                            paper.
                        "I'll be out as soon as I've finished
                            breakfast," said Mr. Pollock.
                        "Well, you can't say I didn't tell
                            ye," said Jim, and withdrew his head. "No wonder there
                            ain't ever anything worth readin' in that pickerune
                            paper of his, Maggie," he growled to Margaret Slattery.
                            "If ever I do subscribe for a paper,
                            it's goin' to be one that's got some git up
                            and go about it. Some Injinapolis er Cincninnaty paper, b'gosh.
                            There's Link Pollock settin' in there eatin'
                            pancakes while a girl is bein' missed from one end of the
                            township to the other. Bill Foss has"
                        "What girl?" demanded Margaret.
                        "That girl of Amos Vick's. They ain't seen
                            hide er hair of her sence yesterday afternoon. Amos is over to the drug
                            store, nearly crazy with suspicion. I got it all figgered out. One of
                            two things has happened.  She's
                            either run off to get married er else she's been waylaid
                            anderexecrated by some tramp. Like as not the very feller that peeped in
                            at Alix Crown's winder the other night.
                            'Twouldn't surprise me a particle if she was found
                            some'eres er other with her head beat in or somethin'!
                            And Link Pollock jest sits in there stuffin' pan"
                        Margaret Slattery having disappeared abruptly into the dining-room, Jim
                            grunted and edged over to the kitchen range, where Miss Jennie Dowd was
                            busily engaged.
                        "I ain't got nothin' personal ag'in
                            Link Pollock, Jennie," he said, sniffing the browning batter
                            with pleasurable longing, "but if you was to ask me
                            I'd say his wife is twice the man he is, and a little over. The
                            minute that woman is a widder I'm goin' to subscribe
                            for the paper, 'cause I know she'll What say,
                            Jennie?"
                        "Bring me another scuttle of coal,and, for goodness'
                            sake, don't smoke that pipe in my kitchen."
                        "What's the matter with this here pipe?"
                            demanded Mr. House in some surprise.
                        "Never mind. I'm busy."
                        "Yes,cookin' pancakes for thatall right, all right, I'll get your coal fer ye. I ought to be
                            out helpin' Amos Vick to investigate fer his daughter,
                            that's where I ought to be. First thing you know,
                            he'll be offerin' twenty-five er fifty dollars fer her
                            andsay, it seems to me you ought to be more interested in that pore lost
                            girl than makin' pancakes fer Link Pollock." He
                            prepared to sit down. "There's a lot of people in this
                            here town payin' him two dollars a year fer to git the news,
                            and all he does is to All right, I wasn't goin' to set
                            down anyways. I was jest movin' this cheer out  o' the way a little,
                            so's Maggie Yes, and with coal as high as it is now and a lot
                            of pore people starvin' and freezin' to death, it
                            exaggerates me considerable to see you wastin' Well, is he
                            still eatin', Maggie?"
                        "He's beat it upstairs to change his carpet
                            slippers," announced Margaret Slattery excitedly. "You
                            needn't make any more, Miss Jennie. They're all
                            beatin' it,all except Mr. Thane, and he says he don't
                            want any more. He says he ain't feelin' well and
                            thinks he'll go up to his room and lay down for a
                            while."
                        "Well, seein's you don't need that coal,
                            Jennie, I guess I'll mosey along and see if I c'n be
                            any help to Amos. This jest goes to show what an ijit I'd
                            ha' been to let my pipe go out."
                        Courtney Thane hung over the little stove in his room, shivering as with
                            a chill. About ten o'clock some one knocked at his door. He
                            started up from the chair, his gaze fixed on the door. With an effort he
                            pulled himself together and inquired who was there.
                        "Is there anything I can do for you, Mr. Thane?" asked
                            Miss Molly Dowd, outside.
                        "Nothing, thank you." After a moment's
                            indecision, he crossed over and opened the door. "It's
                            awfully good of you, Miss Molly. There's nothing really the
                            matter with me. I was awake most of the night with a pain in my
                            back,something like lumbago, I suppose. I was afraid at first it was my
                            old pleurisy coming back for another visit, but it seems to be lower
                            down. I feel much better, thank you. The fresh air will do me good. I
                            think I'll go out and see if I can be of any assistance to poor
                            Vick. Have they had any news of Rosabel?"
                        
                        "I think not. They have telephoned to the city to ask the police
                            to watch out for her, especially at the trains. She's been
                            terribly depressed, they say, since her brother went to the Navy
                            training school up near Chicago. Amos thinks she may have taken it into
                            her head to go up there somewhere to be near him."
                        "It is possible. She was devoted to her brother. I hope nothing
                            worse has happened to her. She is a sweet, lovable girl, and they
                            worshipped her."
                        Later on, as he was standing in front of the postoffice, smoking a
                            cigarette, Vick came up in Alix Crown's automobile.
                        The former had been to the city to consult with the police. He inquired
                            anxiously if any word had been received from the men who had volunteered
                            to search in the woods and along the river bank for the girl. Receiving
                            a reply in the negative from several of the hangers-on, he turned to
                            give an order to the chauffeur. As he did so, his gaze fell upon
                            Courtney, who was on the outer edge of the little group surrounding the
                            car.
                        After a moment of indecision, the young man pushed his way forward, an
                            expression of deep concern in his eyes.
                        "Morning, Courtney," greeted the older man, extending
                            his hand. "I'm glad to see you. I suppose
                            you've heard about Rosabel?"
                        Thane shook hands with Rosabel's father.
                        "I wouldn't be worried if I were you, Mr. Vick.
                            She'll turn up all right. I feel sure of it. If there is
                            anything in the world I can do, I wish you would say so, Mr. Vick.
                            Anything, sir. There is nothing I wouldn't do for you and Mrs.
                            Vick and Rosabel. I adore that child. Why, I get positively sick all
                            over  when I let myself think thatbut,
                            it's impossible! I feel it in my bones she'll come
                            home sometime today."
                        Vick pressed the young man's hand.
                        "I wish I could be sure of that,God, I wish I could be
                            sure," he said, with a little catch in his gruff voice.
                            "I don't see what got into her to run away like this.
                            She ain't been very chipper since Cale went away, you know.
                            Sort of sick and down in the mouth. Her mother's heard her
                            crying a good bit lately up in her room. I promised her only a couple of
                            days ago to take her up to Chicago for a spell, so's she could
                            see Cale every once in a while. So it can't be she's
                            gone off on her own hook to see him, knowin' that either me or
                            her mother was planning to go up with her next week. Thank you,
                            Courtney, for offering to help us. If there's anything,
                            I'll let you know. We've been telegraphin'
                            and telephonin' everywhere to see if we can get track of her,
                            and we've been to all her friends' homes to ask if
                            they've seen her. I wish, if you feel like it, you'd
                            go over and see Mrs. Vick. Maybe you can cheer her up, encourage her or
                            something. She's terribly worried. II think it would break her
                            heart if anything happened toto" His lips twisted as with pain.
                            He bent over and picked a burr from his trousers' leg.
                        "Buck up, old fellow," said Courtney, a ringing note of
                            confidence in his voice. He laid his hand on Vick's arm.
                            "Tell me all about it. When did she leave the house, and where
                            did she say she was going?"
                        "Yesterday afternoon. She said she was going to spend the night
                            at the Jordans'. She kissed her mother good-bye,just as she
                            always does,and we ain't seen or heard anything of her since.
                            Nobody in Windomville saw her. Bill Foss is afraid she may have been  waylaid by hoboes down along the river
                            road. Ifif that happened there'll be
                            something worse than lynchin' if I ever lay hands on"
                        Thane broke in with an oath.
                        "By God, I'll do the job for you if I get hold of him
                            first, Vick. I could set fire to a devil like that and see him burned
                            alive without moving a muscle."
                        "I can't let myself believe she's met with any
                            such horrible fate as that, Courtney. I simply can't bear to
                            think of my pretty little Rosie in the hands of"
                        "Don't think about it, Vick. I believe she will turn up
                            safe and sound and By the way, has it occurred to you that she may have
                            eloped? Was she in love with anybody? Was she interested in any young
                            fellow that you didn't approve of?"
                        "She never spoke of being in love with anybody. She never even
                            gave us an inklin' of such a thing. She would have told her
                            mother. Why, good heavens, Courtney, she wasn't much
                            more'n a little girl! She was eighteen her last birthday, and
                            we never thought of her as anything but a child just out of short
                            dresses. Did she ever speak to you about being gone on any of these
                            young fellows that come to see her? She liked you tremendous,
                            Courtney,and I didn't know but what maybe she might have
                            mentioned something to you about it when you were off on those long
                            walks together. Some of the times when you used to take a lunch basket
                            and go off"
                        "Not a word," broke in Courtney. "Why, she was
                            just like a kid, laughing and singing and begging me to tell her stories
                            about the war, and life in New York, and all that sort of thing. She
                            used to read to me, bless her heart,read by the hour while I smoked,or
                            went  to sleep. If she was in love with
                            anybody she certainly never took me into her confidence."
                        "II guess there's nothing in that theory,"
                            said Amos Vick, shaking his head. "She didn't run away
                            with anybody. That's out of the question. I'm working
                            on the theory that she sort of went out of her head or something and
                            wandered away. You read about cases like that in the papers. I forget
                            what they call the disease, but there's"
                        "Aphasia," supplied Courtney absently. His gaze was
                            fixed on a graceful, familiar figure down the street.
                        Alix Crown had just dismounted from her horse in front of the library.
                            She stood, straight and slim, on the sidewalk awaiting the approach of
                            Editor Pollock, who was hurrying up from Assessor Jordan's
                            house where he had been "interviewing" Annie.
                        A warm glow shot through Courtney's veins. He had held that
                            adorable, boyish figure tight in his arms! Nothing could rob him of that
                            rapturous thought,nothing could deprive him of those victorious moments.
                            Amos Vick's voice recalled him.
                        "I'll have to be on the move, Courtney. Here comes Bill
                            Foss. He's been telephonin' to Litchtown, down the
                            river. I do wish you'd go over and see Lucinda. She'll
                            be mighty grateful to you."
                        "Don't fail to call on me, Mr. Vick, if
                            there's anything I can do," called out Courtney after
                            the moving machine.
                        He did not take his eyes from Alix until she disappeared through the
                            library door. The horse, a very fine animal, was wet with sweat. He
                            could see, even at that distance, the "lather" on her
                            flanks.
                        
                        "Any news?" he inquired of Pollock, as that worthy came
                            up panting.
                        "Nope. Alix Crown is just back from Jim Bagley's. Some
                            one said a hired man of his had seen a woman walking across the pasture
                            yesterday just before darkout near the old Windom place,but it
                            couldn't have been Rosie Vick because she had no way to get
                            across the river except by the ferry, and she didn't come that
                            way, Joe Burk swears. Alix saw this hired man and he says it was almost
                            dark and he couldn't be sure whether it was a man or a
                            woman."
                        A greyish pallor spread over Courtney's face. He turned away
                            abruptly and hurried down the street. He remembered the
                            "skiff" that belonged to young Cale, salvaged some
                            years before on the abatement of a February flood. On more than one
                            occasion he had taken Rosabel out on the river in this clumsy old boat,
                            twice at least to the base of Quill's Window where she had
                            refused to land because of the dread she had for the gruesome place.
                        Cale kept his boat down among the willows, chained to a pole he had
                            driven deep in the bed of the river. It was one of his treasures. He had
                            fished from it up and down the stream; he had gone forth in it at
                            day-break for wild ducks and geese.
                        Yes, Thane remembered the "skiff." Strange that no one
                            else had thought of it. Strange that even Amos Vick was satisfied she
                            could not have crossed the river except by the ferry. He wondered
                            whether it was tied up in its accustomed place over yonder, or was it
                            now on this side of the river? He felt a strange chill in his blood.
                        He was nearing the library when Alix came out. If  she saw him she gave no sign. She crossed the sidewalk,
                            threw the bridle rein over the horse's neck, and swung herself
                            gracefully into the saddle. Without so much as a glance over her
                            shoulder, she rode off at a brisk canter in the direction of the ferry.
                            He knew she was on her way to see Mrs. Vick.
                        The R. F. D. postman making his rounds, came to Amos Vick's
                            shortly after noon that day. He volunteered a bit of information.
                            Rosabel had given him a letter when he stopped the day before. It was
                            addressed to Caleb Vick. She asked him how long he thought it would take
                            the letter to reach its destination. When he told her that it might be
                            delivered to Cale early the next day, she thanked him and returned to
                            the house.
                        He thought at the time that she looked "kind of white around the
                            gills."
                    
                    
                        II
                        Jim Bagley and his new "hired man," pursuing a
                            suggestion made by the latter, went to the top of Quill's
                            Window for a bird's-eye view of the river and the surrounding
                            country. The sharp eyes of the Pinkerton man descried the rowboat under
                            the willows along the opposite bank of the stream.
                        Half an hour later, Bagley and several companions came upon the boat. On
                            one of the seats lay Rosabel Vick's heavy coat and the black
                            fur collar she was known to have worn when she left home. Under the seat
                            in the stern was a small paper bundle. It contained a nightgown, a pair
                            of black stockings, and several toilet articles.
                        Across the river, several hundred yards above Quill's  Window, a small gravelly
                            "sand-bar" reached out into the stream. Here the
                            practised eyes of Gilfillan found unmistakable indications of a recent
                            landing. The prow of the boat, driven well out upon the bar, had left
                            its mark. Also, there were two deep cuts in the sand where an oar had
                            been used in pushing off. It was impossible to make out footprints in
                            the loose, shifting grave.
                        Mr. Gilfillan pondered deeply.
                        "That boat crossed over here yesterday," he reflected.
                            "It's pretty clear that it belongs over on that side.
                            If the Vick girl came over in it, there's no use looking for
                            her on this side of the river. That boat couldn't have got back
                            to the other side unless somebody rowed it over. If it was a woman I saw
                            walking across the pasture in the direction of the river, it must have
                            been this girl. Nowone of two things happenedin case it was the Vick
                            girl. Either she was up near that old house before I got there, or she
                            saw me when she was approaching, and turned back. In either case, she
                            had an object in hanging around that house. Now we come to the object.
                            Was she going there to meet some one? If so, it would naturally be a
                            man.
                        "Now let's get this thing straight. Thane crossed the
                            pasture from this direction. That's positive,because I followed
                            him. It is a dead certainty he did not meet the Vick girl. I would have
                            witnessed any such meeting. The fact that he lived at her
                            father's house for several weeks may have something to do with
                            the case,but that's guesswork. What we want is facts. This much
                            is certain. I did not see Miss Crown go into that house,but I did see
                            her come out. I never was so paralysed in my life. It is clear,
                            therefore,  that she was in there before
                            either I or Thane came upon the scene. Now the question is, was she
                            there to meet Thane? I doubt it. Things begin to look a little clearer
                            to me. Suppose, for instance, he went out to that big hill to meet some
                            one else,presumably the Vick girl, and that they had planned to go to
                            that old deserted house. He was late. So, thinking she had gone on, he
                            hustled across the field and received the surprise of his life. Now,
                            we'll say the Vick girl was over there waiting for him when
                            Miss Crown came to the house,a thing they couldn't have
                            foreseen in view of the fact that she shunned the place. Our hero comes
                            up and enters the house as if he owned it. The other girl hangs around
                            outside till it gets dark enough for her to risk making a getaway
                            without attracting my attention,in case she saw me. She beats it back to
                            the river, and then, being afraid that I saw and recognized her, she
                            concludes to beat it to somebody's house over in the next
                            county, so's she'll have an alibi if I go to Miss
                            Crown with the story. Now, that's one way to look at it. The
                            other angle is that she was jealous and trailed Thane to his rendezvous,
                            as my old friend Nick Carter would say. In that case, By
                            thunder!" He gave vent to a soft whistle.
                        "In that case, she may have jumped into the river and No, that
                            doesn't hang together. She wouldn't have gone to the
                            trouble to row back to the other side. Wait a second! Now, let me think.
                            Here's an idea. We'll suppose somebody waylaid her
                            over there on the other side of the river, put the quietus on her and
                            chucked her into the water. Then he rowed across here and started for
                            the turnpike. Seeing me and also Thane, he turns back. It's a
                            man I see in the darkness  instead of a
                            woman. He goes back to the boat, rows over to the other side again and
                            Holy Mackerel! Here's a new one. That girl's body may
                            be lying up there in the underbrush at this instant. Dumped there by the
                            murderer, who turned back after seeing meI'll take a
                            look!"
                        For an hour Gilfillan searched through the underbrush along the bank.
                            Finally he gave it up and started toward the village. He found the town
                            in a state of great excitement. Everybody was hurrying down to the
                            river. Overtaking an old man, he inquired if there was any news of the
                            missing girl.
                        "They say she's been drownded," chattered the
                            ancient. "My daughter says they found her things in a boat, but
                            no sign of her. Did you ever see the beat? They's been more
                            goin' on in this here town in the last week than"
                        Gilfillan hurried on. He caught Charlie Webster as he was leaving the
                            warehouse.
                        "I want to see Miss Crown as soon as possible,
                            Webster," he said. "Do you suppose she will go up in
                            the air if I mention the fact that I know she was with Thane yesterday
                            up in that old house? It's a rather ticklish thing to spring on
                            her if she"
                        "It's all right," interrupted Charlie.
                            "I talked with her about it last night. She had no idea he was
                            coming there. He told her he saw her from across the pasture and hustled
                            over. She was surprised almost out of her skin when he popped in on her.
                            She tells me she ordered him out of the house."
                        The detective was thoughtful. "I wonder if it has occurred to
                            Miss Crown that Thane might have mistaken her for some one else at that
                            distance."
                        
                        "Not so's you'd notice it," declared
                            Charlie. "He knew it was Alix all right. She isn't in
                            any doubt on that score."
                        "It begins to take shape," mused Gilfillan.
                            "He didn't wait for her, that's
                            all."
                        "What say?"
                        "I was just thinking," replied the other.
                            "Where is Thane at the present moment, Webster?"
                        "He just went off in an automobile with Dick Hurdle and a couple
                            of fellows to stretch one of Joe Hart's big fish nets across
                            the river down at the Narrows, five or six miles below here."
                        "Would you mind inviting me up to your room at the Tavern for a
                            little while, Webster?"
                        "Well, I was going down to the ferry. There are half a dozen
                            skiffs down"
                        "See here, Webster, as I understand it, my real job is to find
                            out all I can about this chap Thane. I am really working for you, not
                            for Miss Crown, although she is putting up the money. I am just as
                            thoroughly convinced as you are that Thane staged that masked robber
                            business himself. It's an old gag, especially with loversand
                            occasionally with husbands."
                        Charlie grinned sheepishly, a guilty flush staining his rubicund face.
                        "I guess I might as well confess that I was guilty of something
                            of the sort when I was about seventeen," he said.
                            "That's how I came to figger out that maybe he was up
                            to the same kind of heroism."
                        "Nearly every kid has done the same thing. It's boy
                            nature."
                        "I reckon that's right. I fixed it for a boy friend of
                            mine to jump out of a dark place one night when I  was walkin' home from a church sociable with my
                            girl. He had false whiskers on. I helped him glue them on,and he had an
                            awful time getting 'em off. Course when he jumped out and
                            growled 'hands up,' I just sailed into him and the fur
                            flew for a few seconds. Then he run like a whitehead. It didn't
                            work out very well, however. That kid's sister got onto the
                            trick and told my girl about it, andwell, I almost had to leave town.
                            But it ain't a game for a grown-up man to play, and
                            that's what I think this feller Thane has been
                            pulling."
                        "What you want to find out, before it's too late, is
                            whether Thane is all that he professes to be," said the other.
                            "Well, I'm simply sitting tight on the job, stalling
                            along until I hear from our people in New York. They have cabled England
                            to find out whether he was connected with the British air forces. Now,
                            what I want to do is to get into that fellow's room for ten or
                            fifteen minutes. Can you fix it?"
                        "Itit wouldn't be legal," protested Charlie.
                            "You've got to get out a search warrant."
                        "My dear fellow, I'm not planning to steal
                            anything," exclaimed Gilfillan. "I merely want to get
                            into his room by mistake. That happens frequently,you know."
                        Charlie was finally persuaded. He cast an apprehensive glance down the
                            road leading to the ferry, searched the Main Street for observers, and
                            then led the way over to the practically deserted Tavern.
                        Half an hour later Mr. Gilfillan re-entered Charlie's room.
                        "Remember I don't know where you've been or
                            what you were up to," warned the fat man firmly.
                            "I'm not a party to this nefarious"
                        
                        "Righto!" said the detective cheerily. "Your
                            skirts are clear. They are immaculate. Let's beat it."
                        "Well, what did you find out?" inquired Charlie, when
                            they were in the street once more. He was bursting with curiosity.
                        "In as much as you don't know where I was or what
                            I've been doing, it will not compromise you if I say that I
                            found a thirty-eight calibre revolver with three empty shells in the
                            cylinder. I also found a theatrical make-up box, with grease paints,
                            gauze, and all that. Also currency amounting to about three hundred
                            dollars. Nothing incriminating, nothing actually crooked. Simply
                            circumstantial as relating to recent events in your midst, Mr.
                            Webster."
                        "Makes it look mighty certain that he was the feller with the
                            mask, don't it? Only three shots were fired, you know.
                            I've been thinking a lot about what you said awhile ago. You
                            don't think that he had anything to do withwith putting the
                            Vick girl out of the way? You spoke about him being mistaken in the
                            woman."
                        "He had nothing to do with it, Webster. I told you I saw a
                            figure in the pasture after he had gone into the house. If it was the
                            Vick girl, she was certainly alive then. He went straight home after
                            leaving that house. He didn't go out of the Tavern again last
                            night, that's positive. Now, what I want to find out is this:
                            was the girl in love with him? Was there anything between them? If
                            she's at the bottom of the river down there, it's a
                            plain case of suicide, my friend, and people do not take their own lives
                            unless there's a mighty good reason. With a young girl
                            it's usually a case of unrequited love,or worse. According to
                            that letter Miss Miller had from New York, Thane is  not above betraying a girl. Of course, if the Vick girl is
                            dead and left nothing behind to implicate Thane, it will be out of the
                            question to charge him with being even indirectly responsible for her
                            death."
                        "The main thing," said Charlie, who had turned a shade
                            paler during this matter-of-fact, cold-blooded analysis, "is to
                            keep Alix Crown from falling into his clutches. He's a bad egg,
                            that feller is, and he's made up his mind to win her by fair
                            means or foul."
                        "Well, if she falls for him after reading that lawyer's
                            letter and when she hears what I believe to be the truth about that
                            heroic episode the other night,why, she ought to get what's
                            coming to her, that's all I have to say," said Mr.
                            Gilfillan flatly. "I've discovered one thing, Mr.
                            Webster. If a woman makes up her mind to marry a man, hell-fire and
                            brimstone can't stop her. The older I get and the more I see of
                            women, the more I am convinced that vice is its own reward. I guess
                            we'd better stroll down to the river and see what's
                            doing."
                        "I've been thinking," said Charlie as they
                            walked along, "that if Thane wasn't in the British
                            Army and wasn't in our army, then he must be a slacker and
                            wanted by the government for"
                        "Nothing doing on that line. You forget he was crippled long
                            before the war. He couldn't get by a medical board.
                            They'd turn him down in a second. If he was in this country at
                            the time of the draft, he would have had no trouble getting an
                            exemption. What I can't understand is why he, a New Yorker,
                            should be hiding out here in the jungles of Indiana. There's
                            something queer about that, my friend."
                        "Kind of fishy," said Charlie darkly. Then upon  reflection, he added with considerable
                            vehemence: "Damn him!"
                        Already half a dozen rowboats were out in the stream, with men peering
                            over the sides into the deep, slow-moving water. Burk's Ferry
                            did a thriving business. It plied back and forth from one
                            "road-cut" to the other, crowded with foot passengers,
                            all of whom studied the water intently. Men, women and children tramped
                            close to the edge of both banks. People spoke in subdued voices; an
                            atmosphere of the deepest solemnity hung over the scene.
                        The sky itself was overcast; a raw wind moaned through the trees, sighing
                            a requiem. The drab, silent river went placidly, mockingly on its way
                            down to the sea, telling no tales: if Rosabel Vick was rolling, gliding
                            along the bottom, gently urged by the current, the grim waters covered
                            well the secret.
                        The word went from lip to lip that motor-boats were on the way down from
                            the city, with police officers and grappling-hooks and men experienced
                            in the gruesome business of "dragging." The boss of
                            the railway construction gang at Hawkins, where the new bridge was being
                            built, had started for Windomville with a quantity of dynamite to be
                            exploded on the bottom of the river in the hope and expectation of
                            bringing the body to the surface.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    OUT OF THE NIGHT
                    ALL afternoon the search continued. At intervals and at widely separated
                        points dull explosions took place on the bed of the river, creating smooth,
                        round hillocks that lasted for the fraction of a second and then dissolved
                        into swift-spreading wavelets, stained a dirty yellow by the upheaval of
                        sand and mud, and went racing in ruffles to the banks which they tenderly
                        licked before they died. White-bellied fish, killed by the shock of the
                        explosions, came to the surface and floated away,scores of them, large and
                        small. Spider-like grappling hooks, with their curving iron prongs, raked
                        the bottom from side to side, moving constantly downstream, feeling here,
                        there and everywhere with insensate fingers for the body of Rosabel Vick.
                    A pall settled over the river; it reached far beyond the environs of
                        Windomville, for Amos Vick was a man known and respected by every farmer in
                        the district.
                    Night came. Courtney Thane, considerably shaken by the tragedy, set out
                        immediately after dinner for the home of Alix Crown. He had been silent and
                        depressed at dinner, taking his little part in the conversation, which dealt
                        exclusively with the incomprehensible act of young Rosabel Vick.
                    "What possible reason could that pretty happy  young girl have had for killing herself?" That was
                        the question every one asked and no one answered. Mrs. Maude Baggs Pollock
                        repeatedly asked it at dinner, and once Thane had replied:
                    "I still don't believe she killed herself. It is beyond
                        belief. If she is out there in the river, as they suspect, it is because
                        there was foul play. Some fiend attacked her. I will never believe anything
                        else, Mrs. Pollock. I knew her too well. She would never dream of killing
                        herself. She loved life too well. I can't help feeling that she is
                        alive and well somewhere, that they will hear from her in a day or two, and
                        that"
                    "But how about the things they found in that boat?"
                        demanded Doc Simpson. "She wouldn't be so heartless as to
                        play a trick like that on her folks."
                    Courtney's answer was a gloomy shake of the head.
                    His heart was pounding heavily as he trudged up the walk to Alix's
                        door. He knew that the crisis in his affairs was at hand. She had asked him
                        to come. He had not given up hope. He was still confident of his power to
                        win in spite of her amazing perversity. Inconsistency, he called it. Of one
                        thing he was resolved: he would brook no delay. She would have to marry him
                        at once. He wanted to get away from Windomville as soon as possible. He
                        loathed the place.
                    Hilda came to the door.
                    "Miss Crown is over at Mr. Vick's," she announced.
                        "She's not at home."
                    He stiffened. "I had an appointment with her for this evening,
                        Hilda. She must be at home."
                    "She ain't," said the maid succinctly.
                    "Did she leave any word for me?"
                    "Not with me, sir. She telephoned to Mrs. Strong  this evening to say she was going to stay
                        with Mrs. Vick."
                    "All night?"
                    "No, sir. The car's going down to meet her at the ferry
                        about ten o'clock."
                    He departed in a very unpleasant frame of mind. This was laying it on a bit
                        thick, he complained. If she thought she could treat him in this cavalier
                        fashion she'd soon find out where she "got off."
                        What business had she, anyhow, over at the Vicks? All the old women in the
                        neighbourhood would be there to An idea struck him suddenly.
                    "I'll do it," he muttered. "I'll
                        have to go over some time, so why not now? It's the decent thing to
                        do. I'll go tonight."
                    He hurried up to his room. Opening his trunk, he took out his revolver,
                        replaced the discharged shells and stuck it into his overcoat pocket.
                        Picking up the little package of bank-notes, he fingered them for a moment
                        and then, moved by an impulse for which he had no explanation, he not only
                        counted them but quickly stuffed them into his trousers' pocket.
                        Afterwards he was convinced that premonition was responsible for this
                        incomprehensible act.
                    He crossed the ferry with several other people. The moon had broken through
                        the clouds. Its light upon the cold, sluggish water produced the effect of
                        polished steel. It reminded him of the grey surface of an ancient suit of
                        armour. The crossing was slow. He could not repress a shudder when he looked
                        downstream and saw lights that seemed to be fixed in the centre of the
                        river. He closed his eyes. He could not bear to look at the cold, silent
                        water. The soft splashing against  the broad,
                        square bow of the old-fashioned ferry served to increase his nervousness.
                        The horrid fancy struck him that Rosabel Vick was out there ahead clawing at
                        the slimy timbers in the vain effort to draw herself out of the water. ...
                        He wished to God he had not come.
                    He was the first person off the ferry when it came to a stop on the farther
                        side of the river. Ahead of him lay the road through the narrow belt of
                        trees that lined the bank. He knew that a scant hundred yards lay between
                        the river and the open road beyond and yet a vast dread possessed him. He
                        shrank from that black opening in the wall of trees where dead leaves
                        rustled and the wind whispered secrets to the barren branches.
                    He fell in behind a couple of men who strode fearlessly into the dark avenue.
                        After him came two men and a woman. They were all strangers to him, so far
                        as he could make out, but he felt a sense of security in their nearness. He
                        gathered that they were bound for Amos Vick's. Presently they came
                        to the open road beyond the trees. The half moon rode high and clear; the
                        figures of his companions took shape, dusky and ghost-like; the fences
                        alongside the road became visible, while straw-ricks, lone trees and other
                        shadowy objects emerged from the maw of the night. Here and there in the
                        distance points of light indicated the presence of invisible farmhouses,
                        while straight ahead, a mile or more away, a cluster of lights marked the
                        house of Amos Vick.
                    As he drew nearer, Thane was able to count the lights. He looked intently for
                        the sixth window, an upstairs corner room was where it would be,but there
                        were lights in only five. The corner window was dark.  He knew that window well. ... He wished he had a stiff drink
                        of whiskey.
                    Half a dozen automobiles stood at the roadside in front of the house. He
                        stopped beside one of them to look at his wrist-watch. It was half-past
                        eight. Alix would be starting home in less than an hour. No doubt it had
                        been arranged that one of these cars was to take her down to the ferry. He
                        had seen her saddle horse late that afternoon standing in front of the
                        blacksmith's shop, evidently waiting to be re-shod.
                    If he had his way,and he was determined to have it,Alix would walk with him
                        to the ferry.
                    As he turned in at the gate he observed that the woman and her two
                        companions, after pausing for a moment to look at the house, continued their
                        way up the road. The men who had preceded him all the way were already on
                        the front porch. He followed the disappearing trio with his eyes. The woman,
                        he noticed for the first time, was very tall,quite as tall as the men. She
                        wore a shawl over her head, and some sort of a long cloak.
                    Setting his jaw he strode up the walk, looking neither to right nor left,
                        mounted the steps where many a night he had sat with Rosabel beside him, and
                        after passing a group of low-voiced neighbours, knocked on the closed door.
                        He was admitted by an elderly woman who looked askance at this well-dressed
                        stranger.
                    "I am Mr. Thane, a friend," he said. "Will you
                        tell Mrs. Vick, please?"
                    "She's upstairs, and II"
                    "I think she is expecting me. But,wait. I thought I might be able to
                        comfort her, but I can see  by your expression
                        that she isn't feeling up to seeing people. I came over primarily
                        to see if there is anything I can do, Madam. You see, Rosabel and I were
                        great pals." His voice broke a little, and he bit his nether lip.
                    "We've finally got her to lie down," said the
                        woman. "She'sshe's nearly crazy with the suspense
                        andeverything. If you'll wait a little bit, I'll find out
                        if she feels like seeing you. Alix Crown is with her. She coaxed her to
                        stretch out on the bed. Miss Crown understands these things. She did some
                        hospital work during the war"
                    "Yes, I know Miss Crown," he interrupted.
                    "and saw a lot of suffering, 'specially among mothers who
                        came to see their crippled and sick sons in the hospitals."
                    "Perhaps if you were to tell Miss Crown that I am here she couldbut
                        no, I sha'n't even bother Miss Crown. She's got
                        her hands full. I will sit down and wait awhile, however. If by any chance,
                        you should be able to get word to Mrs. Vick that I am here, I think she
                        might feel like seeing me."
                    "I'll see," said the woman dubiously, and went
                        away.
                    Courtney sat down on a sofa in the parlour. He looked around the lamp-lit
                        room. ... Over in the corner was the upright piano on which Rosabel used to
                        play for him. He could see her nowthe shapely, girlish back; the round,
                        white neck and the firm young shoulders; the tilt of her head; the strong,
                        brown hands,he could see her now. And she used to turn her head and smile at
                        him, and make dreadful grimaces when this diversion resulted in a discord.
                        ... He got up suddenly and walked out into the dining-room.
                    
                    Beyond, in the kitchen, he heard the rumble of men's voices. He
                        hesitated for a moment, and then opened the door. There were half a dozen
                        men in the kitchen, and one of them was Amos Vick. They were preparing to go
                        out into the night. Vick's face was haggard, his garments were
                        muddy, his long rubber boots were covered with sludge and sand. Catching
                        sight of Thane in the doorway, the farmer went toward him, his hand
                        outstretched.
                    "I'm glad you came, Courtney," he said, his voice
                        hoarse but steady. "Lucinda will be pleased. Does she know
                        you're here?"
                    "I sent word up, but if she doesn't feel like"
                    "She'll want to see you. We're starting out again.
                        Down the river." (His voice shook a little.) "My
                        soul,boy,you look as white as a sheet. Here,take a good swig of this.
                        It's some rye that Steve White brought over. We all needed it. Help
                        yourself. You've been overdoing a little today, Courtney.
                        You're not fit for this sort of That's right! That will
                        brace you up. You needed it, my boy." Courtney drained half a
                        tumbler of whiskey neat. He choked a little.
                    "I guess we'd better be starting, Amos," said
                        Steve White.
                    "Take me along with you, Mr. Vick," cried Courtney,
                        squaring his shoulders. "I can't stand being idle
                        while"
                    "You'd catch your death of cold," interrupted
                        Vick, laying his hand on the young man's shoulder.
                        "It's mighty fine of you and II sha'n't
                        forget it. But you're not fit for an all night job like this. I
                        feel sort of responsible for you, my boy. Your mother would never forgive me
                        if anything happened to you, and this  is a
                        time when we've got to think about the mothers. Good night, God
                        bless you, Courtney."
                    "Good night, Amos."
                    The men trooped heavily out of the kitchen door.
                    Presently he heard the chugging of automobile engines and then the roar as
                        they sped off down the road. He returned to the parlour. The whiskey had
                        given him fresh confidence.
                    The elderly woman was talking to a couple of men in the hall. From the scraps
                        of conversation he was able to pick up, he gathered that they were reporters
                        from the city. She invited him into the room.
                    "We would prefer a very recent picture," one of the men was
                        saying. "Something taken within the last few weeks, if possible. A
                        snap-shot will do, Madam."
                    The speaker was a middle-aged man with hornrimmed spectacles. His companion
                        was much the younger of the two. The latter bowed to Thane, who had taken a
                        position before the fireplace and was regarding the strangers with interest.
                    "I'll have to speak to Mrs. Vick," murmured the
                        woman. "I don't know as she would want Rosabel's
                        picture printed in the papers."
                    "It would be of incalculable assistance, Madam, in case she has run
                        away from home. We have an idea that she may have planted those garments in
                        the boat in order to throw people off the track."
                    "Oh, sheshe wouldn't have done that," cried the
                        woman. "She couldn't be so heartless."
                    "You overlook the possibility that her mind may be affected.
                        Dementia frequently takes the form oferyou might say unnatural
                        cunning."
                    
                    "I'll speak to Mrs. Vick. There's a scrap-book of
                        Kodak pictures there on the table. I was looking through it today. She and
                        her brother, Cale, made heaps of pictures. You might be looking through it
                        while I go upstairs."
                    Thane was lighting a cigarette.
                    "Have you told Miss Crown that I am here?" asked he, as she
                        started toward the stairs.
                    "She says she'll be down in a few minutes. Mrs. Vick wants
                        to see you before you go."
                    The two reporters were examining the contents of the scrap-book. The younger
                        of the two was standing at the end of the little marble-topped table, his
                        body screening the book from Courtney's view.
                    There were a number of loose prints lying between the leaves toward the end
                        of the book. Rosabel had neglected to paste them in. The man with the
                        hornrimmed spectacles ran through them hastily. He stealthily slipped two of
                        these prints up his sleeve.
                    Thane would have been startled could he have seen those prints. They were not
                        pictures of Rosabel Vick, but fair-sized, quite excellent likenesses of
                        himself!
                    The woman returned to say that Mrs. Vick was very much upset by the thought
                        of her daughter's picture appearing in the paper, and could not
                        think of allowing them to use it.
                    The elder man bowed courteously. "I quite understand, Madam. We
                        would not dream of using the picture if it would give pain to the unhappy
                        mother. Please assure her that we respect her wishes. Thank you for your
                        kindness. We must be on our way back to town. Good night, Madam."
                    
                    "These reporters are awful nuisances," remarked Courtney as
                        the front door closed behind the two men. "Always butting in where
                        they're not wanted."
                    "They seemed very nice," observed the woman.
                    "I've never seen one that wasn't a
                        sneak," said he, raising his voice a little. The whiskey was having
                        its effect.
                    Mrs. Vick and Alix entered the room together. The former came straight toward
                        the young man. Her rather heavy face was white and drawn, but her eyes were
                        wide and bright with anxiety. There was no trace of tears. He knew there
                        would be no scene, no hysterics. Lucinda Vick was made of stern, heroic
                        stuff. As he advanced, holding out his hands, he noticed that she was fully
                        dressed. She could be ready at a moment's notice to go to her
                        daughter.
                    "Oh, Courtney!" she cried, and a little spasm of pain
                        convulsed her face for a fleeting second or two. Her voice was husky, tight
                        with strain.
                    He took her cold, trembling hands in his.
                    "It's inconceivable," he cried. "I
                        can't believe it, I won't believe it. You poor, poor
                        thing!"
                    "It's true. She's gone. My little girl is gone. I
                        could curse God." She spoke in a low, emotionless voice.
                        "Why should He have taken her in this way? What have we done to
                        deserve this cruelty? Why couldn't He have let her die in my arms,
                        with her head upon my breast,where it belongs?"
                    "Don't give upyet," he stammered, confounded by
                        this amazing exhibition of self-control. "There is a chance,yes,
                        there is a chance, Mrs. Vick. Don't give up. Bebe brave."
                    
                    She shook her head. "She is dead," came from her stiff
                        lips, and that was all.
                    He laid his arm across her shoulder. "I wish to God it was me
                        instead of her," he cried fervently. "I would take her
                        placewillingly, Mrs. Vick."
                    "II know you would, Courtney," said she, looking into his
                        eyes. "You were her best friend. She adored you. I know you would,
                        God bless you!"
                    He looked away. His gaze fell upon Alix, standing in the door. His eyes
                        brightened. The hunted expression left them. An eager, hungry light came
                        into them. She was staring at him. Gradually he came to the realization that
                        she was looking at him with unspeakable horror.
                    Mrs. Vick was speaking. He hardly heard a word she uttered.
                    "It was kind of you to come, Courtney. Thank you. I must go now. II
                        can't stand it,I can't stand it!"
                    She left him abruptly. Alix stood aside to allow her to pass through the
                        door. They heard her go up the stairs, heavily, hurriedly.
                    "Alix!" he whispered, holding out his hands.
                    She did not move.
                    "I went up to the house to see you," he hurried on.
                        "They told me you were here. I"
                    Her gesture checked the eager words.
                    "You snake!" She fairly hissed the word.
                    He drew back, speechless. She came a few steps nearer.
                    "You snake!" she repeated, her eyes blazing.
                    "Wha What do you mean?" he gasped, a fiery red rushing to
                        his face.
                    
                    "Would you have died for the Ritter girl?"
                    A bomb exploding at his feet could not have produced a greater shock. His
                        mouth fell open; the colour swiftly receded, leaving his face a sickly
                        white.
                    "Who the hell" he began blankly.
                    "Be good enough to remember where you are," cried Alix,
                        lowering her voice as she glanced over her shoulder. "I can say all
                        I have to say to you in a very few words, Mr. Thane. Don't
                        interrupt me. I have been a fool,a stupid fool. We need not go into that.
                        Thank heaven, I happen to be made of a little stronger stuff than others who
                        have come under your influence. You would have married
                        me,yes, I believe that,because it would have been the only way. I have the
                        complete history of your betrayal of the Ritter girl. I know how your leg
                        was injured. I know that you were kicked out of the American Ambulance and
                        advised to leave France. I don't believe you ever served in the
                        British Army. I have every reason to believe that you poisoned my dog, and
                        that you,were the man who came to my window the other night. And I suspect
                        that you are the cause of poor Rosabel Vick's suicide. Now you know
                        what I think of you. My God, how could you have come here tonight? These
                        people trusted you,they still trust you. Until now I did not believe such
                        men as you existed. You"
                    "I had nothing, absolutely nothing to do with Rosabel," he
                        cried hoarsely. He was trembling like a leaf. "Don't you
                        go putting such ideas into their heads. Don't you"
                    "Oh, I am not likely to do that," she interrupted
                        scornfully. "I shall not add to their misery. If I could prove that
                        you betrayed that poor, foolish child,  then I
                        would see to it that you paid the price. But I cannot prove it. I only know
                        that she would have been helpless in your hands. Oh, I know your power! I
                        have felt it. And I did not even pretend to myself that I loved you. What
                        chance would she have had if she loved and trusted you? I shudder at the
                        thought of If Amos Vick should even suspect you of wronging his child, he
                        would not wait for proof. He would tear you to pieces. You may be innocent.
                        That is why I am giving you your chance. Now, go!"
                    "You certainly will give me the opportunity to defend myself, Alix.
                        Am I to be condemned unheard? If you will allow me to walk to the ferry with
                        you"
                    "And who is to act as my bodyguard?" she inquired with a
                        significant sneer. "Go! I never want to see your face
                        again."
                    With that, she left him. He stood perfectly still, staring after the slender,
                        boyish figure until it was hidden from view by the bend of the stairway.
                    His eyes were glassy. Fear possessed his soul. Suddenly he was aroused to
                        action.
                    "I'd better get out of this," he muttered.
                    His hand clutched the weapon in his coat pocket as he strode swiftly toward
                        the front door. Once outside he paused to look furtively about him before
                        descending the porch steps. Several men were standing near the gate. The
                        porch was deserted. He wondered if Amos Vick was down there waiting for him.
                        Then he remembered what Alix had said to him: "These people trust
                        you,they still trust you." What had he to fear? He laughed,a short,
                        jerky, almost inaudible laugh,and went confidently down the walk. As he
                        passed the little group he uttered a brief "good night"
                             to the men, and was rewarded by a
                        friendly response from all of them.
                    Down the moonlit road he trudged, his brain working rapidly, feverishly. In
                        his heart was the rage of defeat, in his soul the clamour of fear,not fear
                        now of the dark strip of woods but of the whole world about him. He communed
                        aloud.
                    "The first thing to do is to pack. I've got to do that
                        tonight. I'm through here. The jig's up. She means it. How
                        the devil did she find out all this stuff? ... But if I leave immediately it
                        will look suspicious. I've got to stick around for a few days. If I
                        beat it tomorrow morning some one's bound to ask questions. It will
                        look queer. Tomorrow I'll receive an urgent letter calling me home.
                        Mother needs me. Her health is bad. ... I wonder if an autopsy would reveal
                        anything. ... Tomorrow sure. I can't stand it here another day. ...
                        There's nothing to worry about,not a thing,but what's the
                        sense of my hanging around here any longer? She's on. Some meddling
                        whelp has been Good Lord, I wonder if it could be that fat fool, Webster?
                        ... If I skip out tonight, it would set Vick to thinking. ... What a fool I
                        was. ..."
                    And so on till he came to the woods. There, his face blanched and his heart
                        began to pound like a hammer. He drew the revolver from his pocket and
                        plunged desperately into the black tunnel; he was out of breath when he ran
                        down to the landing.
                    Through the gloom he distinguished the ferry boat three-quarters of the way
                        across the river, nearing the opposite bank. His "halloa"
                        brought an answer from the ferryman. Cursing his luck in missing the boat by
                             so short a margin of time, he sat down
                        heavily on the stout wooden wall that guarded the approach. It would be ten
                        or fifteen minutes before the tortoise-like craft could recross and pick him
                        up. His gaze instantly went downstream. The faint, rhythmic sound of
                        oarlocks came to his ears. There were no lights on the river, but after a
                        time he made out the vague shape of an object moving on the surface a long
                        way off. From time to time it was lost in the shadows of the treelined bank,
                        only to steal into view again as it moved slowly across a jagged opening in
                        the far-reaching wall of black. It was a boat coming upstream, hugging the
                        bank to avoid the current farther out.
                    Some one approached. He turned quickly and beheld the figure of a woman
                        coming down the road. His heart leaped. Could it be Alix? He dismissed the
                        thought immediately. This was a tall womanin skirts. She came quite close
                        and stopped, her gaze evidently fixed upon him. Then she moved a little
                        farther down the slope and stood watching the ferry which, by this time, was
                        moving out from the farther side. He recognized the figure. It was that of
                        the gaunt woman who crossed with him earlier in the night.
                    The ferry was drawing out from the Windomville side when a faint shout came
                        from down the river. Burk answered the call, which was repeated.
                    "This is my busy night," growled the ferryman. "I
                        ain't been up this late in a coon's age. Not since the Old
                        Settlers' Picnic three years ago down at the old fort. I wonder if
                        those fellers have got any news?"
                    Courtney stepped off the boat a few minutes later and hurried up the hill.
                        The woman followed. At the top of the slope he passed three or four men
                        standing  in the shelter of the blacksmith
                        shop, where they were protected from the sharp, chill wind that had sprung
                        up. A loud shout from below caused him to halt. Burk, the ferryman, had
                        called out through his cupped hands:
                    "What say?"
                    The wind bore the answer from an unseen speaker in the night, clear and
                        distinct: "We've got her!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE THROWER OF STONES
                    
                        AN icy chill, as of a great gust of wind, swept through and over Courtney
                            Thane. His mouth seemed suddenly to fill with water. He could not move.
                            The men by the forge ran swiftly down the hill. The tall woman turned
                            and after a moment followed the men, stopping in the middle of the road
                            a few rods above the landing. She was still standing there when Courtney
                            recovering his power of locomotion struck off rapidly in the direction
                            of Dowd's Tavern. Halfway home he came to an abrupt halt. An
                            inexplicable irresistible force was drawing his mind and body back to
                            the river's edge. He did not want to go back there and
                            seeRosabel. He tried not to turn his steps in that direction, and yet
                            something like a magnet was dragging him. A sort of fascination,the
                            fascination that goes with dread, and horror, and revulsiontook hold of
                            him. ... He moved slowly, hesitatingly at first, then swiftly, not
                            directly back over the ground he had just covered but by a circuitous
                            route that took him through the lot at the rear of the forge. He made
                            his way stealthily down the slope, creeping along behind a thick hedge
                            of hazel brush to a point just above the ferry landing and to the left
                            of the old dilapidated wharf. Here he could see without himself being
                            seen. ... He watched them lift a dark, inanimate object from the boat
                            and lay it on the wharf.  ... He heard
                            men's voices in excited, subdued conversation. ... He saw the
                            tall woman running up the road toward the town. She paused within a
                            dozen feet of his hiding place. ... Then something happened to him. He
                            seemed to be losing the sense of sight and the sense of hearing. His
                            brain was blurred, the sound of voices trailed off into utter silence.
                            He felt the earth giving way beneath his quaking knees. ... The next he
                            knew, men's voices fell upon his dull, uncomprehending ears.
                            Gradually his senses returned. Out of the confused jumble words took
                            shape. He heard his own name mentioned. Instantly his every faculty was
                            alive.
                        Through the brush he could see the dark, indistinct forms of three or
                            four men. They were in the road just below him.
                        "You shouldn't have let him out of your
                            sight," one of the men was saying. "Hang it all, we
                            can't let him give us the slip now."
                        The listener's eyes, sharpened by anxiety, made out the figure
                            of the woman. She spoke,and he was startled to hear the deep voice of a
                            man.
                        "He was making for the boarding house. Webster says he is not in
                            his room. I took it for granted he was going home or I wouldn't
                            have turned back."
                        Where had he heard that voice before? It was strangely familiar.
                        "Well, we've got to locate him. I'll stake my
                            life he is George Ritchie. I compared this snap-shot with the photograph
                            I have with me. Shave off that dinky little moustache and I'll
                            bet a hundred to one you'll have Ritchie's mug all
                            right. Hustle back there, Gilfillan,you and Simons. He'll be
                            turning up at the  house unless
                            he's got wind of us. Don't let him see you. You stay
                            here with me, Constable. The chances are he'll come back here
                            to wait for Miss Crown, if he's as badly stuck on her as you
                            say, Gilfillan. They're all fools about women."
                        The hidden listener was no longer quaking. His body was tense, his mind
                            was working like lightning. He was wide awake, alert; the fingers that
                            clutched the weapon in his pocket were firm and steady; he scarcely
                            breathed for fear of betraying his presence, but the courage of the
                            hunted was in his heart.
                        The little group broke up. Constable Foss and one of the strangers
                            remained on the spot, the others vanished up the road. He glanced over
                            his shoulder in the direction of the wharf. A long dark object was lying
                            near the edge, while some distance away a small knot of men stood
                            talking. The moon, riding high, cast a cold, sickly light upon the
                            scene.
                        "I've always been kind of suspicious of him,"
                            Foss was saying, his voice lowered. "What did you say his real
                            name is?"
                        "His real name is Thane, I suppose. I guess there's no
                            doubt about that. Mind you, I'm not sure he's the man
                            we've been looking for these last six months, but I'm
                            pretty sure of it. Last February two men and a woman tried to smuggle a
                            lot of diamonds through the customs at New York. I'll not go
                            into details now further than to say they landed from one of the big
                            ocean liners and came within an ace of getting away with the job. The
                            woman was the leader. She was nabbed with one of the men at a hotel. The
                            other man got away. He was on the passenger list as George Ritchie, of
                            Cleveland, Ohio. The woman had half a 
                            dozen photographs of him in her possession. I've got a copy of
                            one of 'em in my pocket now, and it's so much like
                            this fellow Thane that you'd swear it was of the same man. This
                            morning Gilfillan,that's the Pinkerton man,telephoned to his
                            chief in Chicago to notify the federal authorities that he was almost
                            dead certain that our man was here. He's a wonder at
                            remembering faces, and he had seen our photographs. Simons and I took
                            the three o'clock train. Gilfillan met us in the city and
                            brought us out after we had instructed the police to be ready to help us
                            in case he got onto us and gave us the slip."
                        "How much of a reward is offered?" inquired Foss.
                        "We are not supposed to be rewarded for doing our
                            duty," replied the Secret Service man curtly. "He got
                            away from us and it's our business to catch him again. You can
                            bet he's our man. He wouldn't be hanging around a burg
                            like this for months unless he had a blamed good reason for keeping out
                            of sight."
                        "He's been in mighty bad health,and, if anybody should
                            ask you, there ain't a healthier place in the world than right
                            here in"
                        "It's healthier than most jails," admitted the
                            other with a chuckle.
                        "Umph!" grunted Mr. Foss, delivering without words a
                            full and graphic opinion on the subject of humour as it exists in the
                            minds of people who live in large cities. He chewed for a time in
                            silence. "What became of the woman and the other man?"
                        "Oh, they were sent up,I don't know for how long.
                            They're old hands. Husband and wife. Steamship gamblers before
                            the war. Fleeced any number of suckers. She must be a peach, judging
                            from the pictures  I've seen of
                            her. They probably would have got away with this last job if she and
                            Ritchie hadn't tried to put something over on friend husband.
                            She had the can all ready to tie to him when he got wise and laid for
                            her lover with a gun. The revenue people had been tipped off by agents
                            in Paris and traced the couple to the hotel. They sprung the trap too
                            soon, however, and the second man got away."
                        "Well, I guess there ain't any question but what this
                            feller here is old Silas Thane's grandson. They say
                            he's the livin' image of old Silas. So he must have
                            sailed under a false name."
                        "They usually do," said the other patiently.
                        "And you want me to arrest him on suspicion, eh?"
                        "Certainly. You're a county official, aren't
                            you?"
                        "I'm an officer of the law."
                        "Well, that's the answer. We are obliged to turn such
                            matters over to the local authorities. What do you suppose I'm
                            telling you about the case for? When I give the word, you land him
                            andwell, Uncle Sam will do the rest, never fear."
                        "That's all right, but supposin' he
                            ain't the man you're after and he turns around and
                            sues me for false arrest?"
                        "You can detain anybody on information and belief, my friend.
                            Don't you know that?"
                        "Certainly," said Mr. Foss with commendable asperity.
                            "Supposin' he's got a revolver?"
                        "He probably has,but so have we. Don't worry. He
                            won't have a chance to use it. Hello! Isn't that a man
                            standing up there by that telephone pole? We'll just stroll up
                            that way. Don't hurry. Keep cool. Talk about the
                            drowning."
                        
                        They were halfway up the hill before Courtney moved. Every nerve was
                            aquiver as he raised himself to his feet and looked cautiously about.
                            The thing he feared had come to pass, but even as he crouched there in
                            the shelter of the bushes the means of salvation flashed through his
                            mind. He realized that the next fifteen or twenty minutes would convince
                            these dogged, experienced man chasers that their quarry had
                            "got wind of them" and was in flight. The hunt would
                            be on in grim earnest; the alarm would go out in all directions. Men
                            would be watching for him at every cross-roads, every railway station,
                            every village, and directing the hunt would bethese men who never give
                            up until they "land" their man.
                        His only chance lay in keeping under cover for a day or two,or even
                            longer,until the chase went farther afield and he could take the risk of
                            venturing forth from his hiding place. He had the place in mind. They
                            would never think of looking for him in that sinister hole in the wall,
                            Quill's Window! There he could lie in perfect safety until the
                            coast was clear, and then by night steal down the river in the wake of
                            pursuit.
                        Their first thoughts would be of the railroad, the highways and the city.
                            They would not beat the woods for him. They would cut off all avenues of
                            escape and set their traps at the end of every trail, confident that he
                            would walk into them perforce before another day was done.
                        Like a ghost he stole across the little clearing that lay between the
                            road and the willows above the ferry. The snapping of a twig under his
                            feet, the scuffling of a pebble, the rustling of dead leaves and grass,
                            the scraping of his garments against weeds and shrubbery,  were sounds that took on the magnitude of
                            ear-splitting crashes. It was all he could do to keep from breaking into
                            a mad, reckless dash for the trees at the farther side of this moonlit
                            stretch. With every cautious, foxlike step, he expected the shout of
                            alarm to go up from behind, and with that shout he knew restraint would
                            fail him; he would throw discretion to the winds and bolt like a
                            frightened rabbit, and the dogs would be at his heels.
                        He was nearing the trees when he heard some one running in the road, now
                            a hundred yards behind him. Stooping still lower, he increased his speed
                            almost to a run. The sound of footsteps ceased abruptly; the runner had
                            come to a sudden halt. Thane reached the thicket in another stride or
                            two and paused for a few seconds to listen. A quick little thrill of
                            relief shot through him. No one was coming along behind him. The runner,
                            whoever he was, had not seen him; no cry went up, no loud yell of
                            "There he goes!"
                        Picking his way carefully down the slope he came to the trail of the
                            Indians, over which he had trudged recently on his trip to the great
                            rock. He could tell by the feel of the earth under his feet that he was
                            on the hard, beaten path by the river's edge. Now he went
                            forward more rapidly, more confidently. There were times when he had to
                            cross little moon-streaked openings among the trees, and at such times
                            he stooped almost to a creeping position.
                        Occasionally he paused in his flight to listen for sounds of pursuit.
                            Once his heart seemed to stop beating. He was sure that he heard
                            footsteps back on the trail behind him. Again, as he drew near the
                            rockstrewn base of the hill, a sound as of some one scrambling  through the underbrush came to his
                            straining ears, but the noise ceased even as he stopped to listen. He
                            laughed at his fears. An echo, no doubt, of his own footsteps; the wind
                            thrashing a broken limb; the action of the water upon some obstruction
                            along the bank.
                        Nevertheless he dropped to his hands and knees when he came to the
                            outlying boulders and jagged slabs close to the foot of the black,
                            towering mass. There was no protecting foliage here. Never in his life
                            had he known the moon to shine so brightly. He whispered curses to the
                            high-hanging lantern in the sky.
                        The murmur of the river below brought a consoling thought to him. He
                            would not suffer from thirst. He could go without food for a couple of
                            days, even longer. Had not certain English women survived days and days
                            of a voluntary hunger strike? But he could not do without water. In the
                            black hours before dawn he would climb down from his eerie den and drink
                            his fill at the river's brink.
                        Now a sickening fear gripped him. What if he were to find it impossible
                            to scale that almost perpendicular steep? What if those hand-hewn clefts
                            in the rock fell short of reaching to the cave's entrance? The
                            processes of time and the elements may have sealed or obliterated the
                            shallow hand and toe holds. His blood ran cold. He had dreaded the
                            prospect of that hazardous climb up the face of the rock. Now he was
                            overcome by an even greater dread: that he would be unable to reach the
                            place of refuge.
                        He had no thought of Alix Crown nowno thought of her beauty, her body,
                            her riches. His cherished dream was over. She took her place among other
                            forgotten dreams. The sinister business of saving his own  skin drove her out of his mind. It drove
                            out all thought of Rosabel Vick. The hounds were at his heels. It was no
                            time to think of women!
                    
                    
                        II
                        Anxiety that touched almost upon despair hastened his steps. Abandoning
                            caution, he ran recklessly up the path among the rocks, stumbling and
                            reeling but always keeping his feet, and came at last to the gloomy,
                            forbidding facade of Quill's Window. Here he groped along the
                            wall, clawing for the sunken cleats with eager, trembling hands. He knew
                            they were theresomewhere. Not only had he seen them, he had climbed with
                            ease, hand over hand, ten or a dozen feet up the cliff. He had shuddered
                            a little that day as he looked first over his shoulder and then upward
                            along the still unscaled stretch that lay between him and the mouth of
                            the cave, seventy or eighty feet away. But that was in broad daylight.
                            It would be different now, with darkness as his ally.
                        He remembered thinking that day how easy it would be to reach
                            Quill's Window by this rather simple route. All that was
                            required was a stout heart, a steady hand, and a good pair of arms. All
                            of these were bestowed upon him by magic of darkness. It was what the
                            light revealed that made a coward of him. Why, he could shut his eyes
                            tight and go up that cliff by night as easily asbut where were the
                            slots?
                        At last his hand encountered one of the sharp edges. He reached up and
                            found the next one above,and then for the first time realized that his
                            eyes had been closed all the time he was feeling along the cold surface
                            of the rock. He opened them in a start of actual bewilderment.  The blackish mass rose almost sheer above
                            him, like a vast wall upon which the moon cast a dull, murky light. He
                            closed his eyes again and leaned heavily against the rock. His heart
                            began to beat horribly. He felt his courage slipping; he wondered if he
                            had the strength, the nerve to go on; he saw himself halfway up that
                            endless wall, clutching wildly to save himself when a treacherous
                            hand-hold broke loose and
                        He opened his eyes and tried to pierce the shadows below the rocky path.
                            Was it best to hide in that hole up there, after all? Would it not be
                            wiser, now that he had a fair start, to keep on up the river, trusting
                            to
                        A chorus of automobile horns in the distance came to his ears suddenly,a
                            confused jumble of raucous blasts produced by many cars. The alarm! The
                            search was on! The wild shriek of a siren broke the stillness near at
                            hand, followed a few seconds later by the gradually increasing roar of
                            an engine as it sped up the dirt road not three hundred yards to his
                            left,the road that ran past the gate on the other side of the hill. God!
                            They were getting close!
                        Another and even more disturbing sound came to him as he stood with his
                            fingers gripping one of the little ledges, the toe of his shoe fumbling
                            for a foothold in another. Somewhere back on the trail he had just
                            traversed, a rock went clattering down to the river. He heard it
                            boundingand the splash as it shot into the water.
                        He hesitated no longer. Shutting his eyes, he began the ascent. ...
                        A dark object turned the corner of the cliff below and moved slowly,
                            cautiously along the wall. Suddenly it stopped. From somewhere in the
                            gloom ahead came  a strange and puzzling
                            sound, as of the dragging of a tree limb across the face of the rock.
                            The crouching object in the trail straightened up and was transformed
                            into the tall, shadowy figure of a man.
                        For many seconds he stood motionless, listening, his eyes searching the
                            trail ahead. The queer sound of scraping went on, broken at intervals by
                            the faint rattle of sand or dirt upon the rocky path. At last he looked
                            up. Far up the face of the cliff a bulky, shapeless thing was crawling,
                            slowly but surely like a great beetle.
                        The watcher could not believe his eyes. And yet there could be no
                            mistake. Something was crawling up the sheer face of
                            the cliff, a bulging shadow dimly outlined against the starlit sky.
                        The man below went forward swiftly. Twice he stooped to search with eager
                            hands for something at his feet, but always with his gaze fixed on the
                            creeping shadow. He knew the creeper's goal: that black streak
                            in the wall above, rendered thin by foreshortening. He knew the creeper!
                        Twenty or thirty paces short of the ladder he stopped. From that spot he
                            hurled his first rock. His was a young, powerful arm and the missile
                            sped upward as if shot from a catapult. It struck the face of the cliff
                            a short distance above the head of the climber and glanced off to go
                            hurtling down among the trees beyond.
                        Thane stopped as if paralysed. For one brief, horrible moment he felt
                            every vestige of strength deserting him, oozing out through his tense,
                            straining finger-tips. The shock had stunned him. He moaned,a little
                            whimpering moan. He was about to fall! He could  hold on no longer with those weak, trembling hands. His
                            brain reeled. A great dizziness seized him. He clung frantically to the
                            face of the rock, making a desperate effort to regain his failing
                            senses. Suddenly his strength returned; he was stronger than ever. A
                            miracle had happened.
                        The mouth of the cave was not more than half a dozen feet above him. He
                            opened his eyes for one brief, daring glance upward. Not more than five
                            or six steps to go. Gritting his teeth he went on. Now only four more
                            ledges to grip, four more footholds to find.
                        A second stone whizzed past his head and struck with a crash beyond him.
                            He heard it whistle, he felt the rush of air.
                        "God! If that had got my head! What an inhuman devil he is! The
                            dirty beast!"
                        The fourth stone caught him in the side after glancing off the wall to
                            his left. He groaned aloud, but gripped more fiercely than ever at his
                            slender support. For a few seconds he could not move. Then he reached up
                            and felt for the next "cleat." He found it but, like
                            many others he had encountered, it was filled with sand and dirt. That
                            meant delay. He would have to dig it out with his fingers before risking
                            his grip on the edge. Fast and feverishly he worked. Another stone
                            struck below his feet.
                        "Hey!" he yelled. "Let up on that! Do you want
                            to kill me? Cut it out! I can't get away, you damned fool!
                            You've got me cornered." His voice was high and
                            shrill.
                        The answer was another stone which grazed his leg.
                        A moment later he reached over and felt along the  floor of the cave for the final hold. Finding it, he drew
                            himself up over the edge and crawled, weak and half-fainting, out of
                            range of the devilish marksman.
                        For a long time he lay still, gasping for breath. They had him cold!
                            There was no use in trying to think of a way out of his difficulty. All
                            he wanted now was to rest, a chance to pull himself together. After all
                            was said and done, what were a few years in the penitentiary? He was
                            young. Five years,even ten,what were they at his time of life? He would
                            be thirty-five, at the most forty, when he came out, and as fit as he
                            was when he went in.
                        "It was all my fault, anyway," he reflected bitterly.
                            "If I had let Madge alone I Oh,what's the use
                            belly-aching now! That's all over,and here am I, paying pretty
                            blamed dearly for a month's pleasure. They've got me.
                            There's no way out of it now. Jail! Well, worse things could
                            happen than that. What will mother think? I suppose it will hurt like
                            the devil. But she could have fixed this if she'd loosened up a
                            bit. She could have gone to Washington as I told her to do andhell, it
                            wouldn't have cost her half as much as it will to defend me in
                            court. She can't get a decent lawyer underwell, God knows how
                            many thousands."
                        He sat up and unbuttoned his overcoat in order to feel of the spot where
                            the stone had struck him. He winced a little. After a moment's
                            reflection he drew a box of matches from his pocket.
                        "No harm in striking a match now," he chattered aloud.
                            "I may as well see what sort of a place it is."
                        He crawled farther back in the cave, out of the wind, and struck a match.
                            His hand shook violently, his chin quivered. During the life of the
                            brief flare, the interior  of
                            Quill's Window was revealed to him. The cave was perhaps twenty
                            feet deep and almost as wide at the front, with an uneven, receding roof
                            and a flat floor that dropped at no inconsiderable slant toward the
                            rear. It appeared to be empty except for the remains of two or three
                            broken-up boxes over against one of the walls. He struck a second match
                            to light a cigarette, continuing his scrutiny while the tiny blaze
                            lasted. He saw no bones, no ghastly skulls, no signs of the ancient
                            tragedies that made the place abhorrent.
                        He crawled back to the entrance. Lying flat, he peered over the ledge.
                        "Hallo, down there!" he called out. No response. He
                            shouted once more, his voice cracking a little.
                        "Where are you?"
                        This time he got an answer. A hoarse voice replied:
                        "I'm here, all right."
                        Thane forced a laugh.
                        "Well, I'm up here, all right. You've got me
                            treed. What's the idea? Waiting for me to come down?"
                            No answer. "Say, it's worth a lot of money to you if
                            you'll just walk on and forget that I'm up here.
                            I'll give you my word of honour to come across with enough to
                            put you on easy street for the rest of your life." He heard the
                            man below walking up and down the path.
                        "Did you hear what I said? You can't pick up
                            twenty-five thousand every day, you know." He waited for the
                            response that never came. "Honesty isn't always the
                            best policy. Think it over." Another long silence. Then:
                            "I suppose you know the government does not pay any
                            reward." Still that heavy, steady tread. "If you think
                            I'm going to come down you're jolly well off your
                            nut." He wriggled nearer the edge  and peered over. The black form shuttled restlessly back and forth
                            past the foot of the ladder, for all the world like a lion in its cage.
                            Presently it moved off toward the bend at the corner of the cliff, where
                            it stopped, still in view of the man above,a vague, shapeless object in
                            the faint light of the moon.
                        Many minutes passed. Ten, fifteen,they seemed hours to the trapped
                            fugitive,and then he heard a voice, suppressed but distinct.
                        "Who's there?"
                        There was a moment's silence, and then another voice replied,
                            but he could not make out the words.
                        The man stepped out of sight around the bend. A few seconds later, Thane
                            heard a jumble of voices. Drawing away from the ledge, he slunk deeper
                            into the cave. He heard some one running along the trail, and a muffled
                            voice giving directions. He drew a deep, long breath.
                        "The death watch, eh?" he muttered.
                            "They're going to sit there till I have to come out.
                            Like vultures. They haven't the nerve to come up here after me.
                            The rotten cowards!"
                        Then he heard something that caused him to start up in a sort of panic.
                            He stood half erect, crouching back against the wall, his eyes glued on
                            the opening, his hand fumbling nervously for the revolver in his pocket.
                        Some one was climbing up the cliff!
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    A MESSAGE AND ITS ANSWER
                    CHARLIE WEBSTER met Alix at the ferry. The body of the drowned girl had been
                        removed to Hart's Undertaking Parlours and Expert
                        Carpenter's Shop in obedience to the County Coroner's
                        instructions by telephone.
                    The fat man was so overcome by excitement he could hardly speak. Sitting
                        beside Alix in the automobile, he rattled on at a great rate about the
                        extraordinary turn of affairs, and it was not until they were nearly home
                        that he discovered she was sobbing quietly in her corner of the car.
                    "Gosh, what are you crying for, Alix?" he demanded.
                        "It's the greatest piece of good fortune that
                        ever"
                    "I am thinking of poor Mrs. Vick," she murmured chokingly.
                    "Oh! Yes, that's right. It's terrible for that
                        poor woman. Terrible. As I was saying, the last anybody saw of him was when
                        he started for the Tavern. Gilfillan follered him part ways and then went
                        back to the ferry, never dreaming he But didn't I tell you that
                        before? I'm so upset I don't seem to remember what I Oh,
                        yes, now I know where I was. The detectives insisted on searching every room
                        in the Tavern. Angie Miller got as sore as a boiled lobster when they
                        knocked on her door and asked if he was in her room. You  ought to have heard what she said to
                        'em from behind the door when she finally opened it and let
                        'em in,and she nearly had a fit when she saw old Tintype was with
                        'em. She lit into him,my gosh, how she lit into him! Accused him of
                        suspecting her of having an erudite affair with Courtney,erudite
                        wasn't the word she used, but it don't matter,
                        it's as good as any for an old maid. We searched everywhere, but no
                        sign of him. You needn't be surprised to find one of the detectives
                        hanging around your place, Alix. They think maybe he'll turn up
                        there before long."
                    "He can't be very far away," said she suddenly
                        aroused to anxiety. She had ceased crying and was drying her eyes with her
                        handkerchief. The car was nearing the entrance to her grounds. "He
                        wouldn't dare come to my house afterafter what I said to him
                        tonight. He could not expect me to help him in any"
                    "Well, you see, it's barely possible he don't know
                        they're after him, Alix. I guess maybe I'd better stay
                        here for a while. You won't be so nervous with me in the
                        house."
                    "I am not afraid, Charlie. Of course, I am terribly unstrung and
                        unhappy over poor little Rosabel,but I am not afraid of him. He will not come here. Tell me again just what he is accused of
                        doing."
                    The car had drawn up under the porte-cochre. Webster repeated the story he
                        had had from Gilfillan. She sat perfectly still during the lengthy recital.
                    "And to think" she began, but checked the words in time.
                        "Oh, what fools we have been, Charlie!"
                    "Anyhow," said Charlie, divining her thoughts,
                        "there's a good deal to be said for that saying,
                        'All's well that ends well.' I've been
                        thinking what a difference  there is in men.
                        Now, take for instance David Strong. Just stack him up alongside this slick,
                        smoothtalking"
                    "Oh, Charlie!" It was almost a wail.
                    He took her hand in one of his and gently patted it with the other.
                    "I guess you'd kind of like to see Davy for a change,
                        wouldn't you, Alix?"
                    She caught her breath sharply, as if in pain.
                    "Now, there's a feller," went on Charlie after a
                        moment, "that's all wool and a yard wide. He"
                    "Good night, Charlie," she broke in abruptly.
                        "Thank you for coming to meet me. Youyou are the best, the dearest
                        man in the world. I"
                    "You needen't thank me for standin' up for Davy
                        Strong. That's what you're really thankin' me
                        for, you know," said he. "I've always loved that
                        boy, Alix." She pressed his hand. "That's
                        good!" he cried fervently. "I love him so much I wish he
                        was sitting right here where I'm sitting now. I'll bet
                        he'd be the happiest feller in all Well, so long, Alix.
                        You've had a hard day. I won't make it any worse for you
                        by talking about David Strong. I know how much you hate him. Just the same,
                        I wish he was sitting here in my place."
                    "So do I, Charlie," she confessed, with a deep sigh.
                    "So's you could hate him to your heart's content,
                        eh?" he chaffed.
                    "Yes," she murmured,"to my heart's
                        content."
                    "Well, I've got to get busy," he exclaimed
                        briskly. "Can't sit here talkin' nonsense to you
                        when there's so much to do. Link Pollock and Doc and Tintype are
                        waiting for me down at the Tavern. I promised to  hurry back with the car. That reminds me, Alix. We're
                        going to use your car to go hunting in. I guess you don't mind, do
                        you?"
                    She spoke to the chauffeur as she got out. "Take Mr. Webster
                        wherever he wants to go, Ed. I shall not need the car until eleven
                        o'clock in the morning."
                    Mrs. Strong was waiting up for her. There was a big fire in the living-room,
                        and a tray with hot coffee and toast on a table beside the comfortable chair
                        that had been drawn up near the fender.
                    Alix dropped wearily into the chair and stretched her booted, pantalooned
                        legs out in complete relaxation.
                    "You poor child," cried Mrs. Strong.
                        "You're all done up. My, but you're white and
                        tired-looking. It's been a terrible strain. Sit still now and
                        I'll take your hat off for you. Better have your coat and boots
                        off, too, dear. Hilda will have a hot bath ready for you whenever
                        you're ready to"
                    "I suppose you know they've found her, Auntie? In the
                        river."
                    "Yes. Ed told me. Now, don't talk about it. Here's
                        some hot coffee."
                    "Never mind my coat. I'm too tired. You know about Courtney
                        Thane?"
                    "I only know they're hunting for him. There's a
                        man out in the kitchen. Isis it in connection with Rosabel's
                        death?"
                    "No. Thank you, Auntie. That feels better. I haven't had it
                        off since morning. Charlie told me about Thane, but I am not sure whether I
                        can get it straight. He was so excited,and I was so distressed."
                    Her voice was low and husky with fatigue and emotion; it was apparent that
                        she controlled it with difficulty.  In her
                        dark eyes there was a brooding, haunted look. She repeated as best she could
                        Charlie's rambling, disjointed story.
                    "And just to think," cried Mrs. Strong at the end,
                        "you let that beast kiss you and"
                    "Oh, don't! Don't!" cried the girl,
                        covering her eyes with her hands. "I can't bear the
                        thought of it. I wasn't myself. I don't know what came
                        over"
                    "There, there! Don't think about it any more. It's
                        all right now. And you're not the only woman that's lost
                        her head since God made Adam, my dear. It's pretty hard not to
                        sometimes. You"
                    "Oh, I couldn't,I couldn't have
                        done anything bad. I couldn't"
                    "God bless you, of course you couldn't," cried the
                        older woman, stroking the girl's hair. "Do you think this
                        coffee will keep you awake?" She poured out a steaming cup and
                        dropped two lumps of sugar into it.
                    "I sha'n't go to sleep anyway, Auntie,
                        so"
                    The ringing of the door bell startled them. Alix sprang to her feet in alarm.
                    "Don't go to the door!" she cried.
                        "It'sit's Courtney Thane!"
                    "Nonsense! He'll not be coming here. Sit down.
                        I'll inquire who it is before I open the door."
                    "Under no circumstances are you to let him in, Mrs.
                        Strong," ordered Alix peremptorily.
                    "I should say not! It would look pretty, wouldn't it, if
                        the papers came out and said the notorious bandit was captured in the home
                        of Miss Alix Crown, the beautiful and wealthy heiress? They always"
                        The bell rang again. "Put the cream in yourself, Alix.
                        I'll see who it is."
                    
                    Alix followed her with anxious, apprehensive eyes as she passed into the
                        hall. She heard the following dialogue:
                    "Who is it?"
                    "Does Miss Crown live here?" came in a clear, boyish voice
                        from the outside.
                    "She does. Who are you and what do you want?"
                    "I'm a messenger boy. I got a letter for her."
                    "A letter? Who's it from?"
                    "Say, open up! I can't stand out here all night."
                    "Who is it from?" repeated Mrs. Strong firmly.
                    "How do I know? I ain't no mind-reader."
                    Mrs. Strong looked in at Alix. "I guess it's all right,
                        isn't it?"
                    "Open the door," said Alix quietly.
                    A small, shivering messenger boy in uniform entered.
                    "Are you Miss Crown?"
                    "No, I'm not. Where's the letter?"
                    "I got to deliver it to her. If she ain't here I'm
                        to wait. I got to get an answer."
                    Alix came forward. "I am Miss Crown. Come in, my boy, and warm
                        yourself by the fire."
                    "Sign here," said the boy, indicating a line in his receipt
                        book.
                    While Alix was signing her name, Mrs. Strong looked the boy over.
                        "Dear me, you must be nearly frozen, child. No overcoat on a night
                        like this. Did you come all the way out here from the city on a
                        bicycle?"
                    "Give him some coffee, Mrs. Strong," said Alix, handing
                        back the book and receiving the envelope in return.
                    "I got a taxi waiting for me out in front," said the boy.
                        "Say, what's goin' on in this burg? We been  held up three times, and just now a man
                        stopped me out here in the yard and"
                    "What's the matter, Alix?" cried Mrs. Strong.
                    The girl was staring at the address on the envelope. Doubt, wonder,
                        incredulity filled her eyes.
                    "Why,why, Auntie,it's David's writing!
                        David's!" she cried. "See! Isn't it? I
                        would recognize it"
                    "Bless my soul, so it is!" exclaimed David's
                        mother.
                    "Oh,what does it mean? Boy, where did you get this letter?"
                        Her voice trembled with excitement, her eyes were gleaming.
                    "Never mind," put in Mrs. Strong, turning her head to hide
                        a smile. "You run upstairs and read it, Alix, and I"
                    "Auntie Strong, do you know anything about this?" demanded
                        Alix suspiciously. The colour was flowing back into her cheeks.
                        "Have you been keeping something"
                    "and I will entertain this young gentleman during your
                        absence," went on the other serenely,but there was a flush in her
                        cheeks and her eyes were very bright and happy. "You go and read
                        your letter and,did you say there was to be an answer, boy?"
                    "Yes'm."
                    "And write your answer," concluded Mrs. Strong.
                        "Come along, my lad, and have a nice hot cup of coffee and some
                        toast. I hope you take sugar. There are two lumps in it already."
                    Alix fairly ran from the room. They heard her racing up the stairs.
                    "Will you have cream, my boy?" asked Mrs.  Strong, steadying her voice with an effort.
                        He had shuffled along behind her to the fireplace.
                    "Yes'm," and then as an afterthought: "if
                        you please, ma'am." He looked up and saw that his
                        hostess's eyes were swimming in tears. "II hope it
                        ain't bad news," he stammered uncomfortably.
                    "Don't you know there are such things as tears of
                        joy?" inquired the lady.
                    He looked very doubtful. "No ma'am," he solemnly
                        confessed. The tears he knew about were not joyous.
                    "Wasn't it just like David to hire an automobile to send
                        you out here to deliver the letter to her? I suppose it must have cost him a
                        pretty penny. Most men would have put a two cent stamp on it. But my son is
                        not like other men. He is always doing the most unexpected things,and the
                        very nicest things. Now, who else in the world would have thought of hiring
                        an automobile to send a message by?"
                    "Is he your son, ma'am?"
                    "Yes. My son David. Did you see him?"
                    "Sure I did."
                    "How was he looking?"
                    "Fine," said the lad. "Gee, but he's
                        tall."
                    "Six feet three, my boy," said David's mother.
                        "That's very hot. Be careful not to scald your mouth.
                        Shall I put in another lump,or two?"
                    "Will it cool it off any?"
                    "I am sure it will."
                    Meanwhile, Alix was greedily devouring the contents of the letter. She stood
                        beside the light over her dressing-table; her heart was pounding furiously,
                        her eyes were radiantly bright. 
                        
                            
                                
                                    DEAR ALIX:
                                    
                                    I have just this instant arrived in town, and I am scribbling
                                        this in the hotel writing-room, with my overcoat still on my
                                        back. I shall not go to sleep tonight until I have had your
                                        reply. Somehow I will find a way to get this letter to you
                                        tonight, I don't know how at present, but where
                                        there's a will there's a way. If mother
                                        and Charlie Webster are mistaken, or if they have assumed
                                        something that is not true, I shall go away again without
                                        bothering you. But if you want me, I will come straight out
                                        to you. You are in trouble. I am not asking anything for
                                        myself, dear,you know me well enough to understand that,I am
                                        only asking you to let me do anything in the world I can for
                                        you. That is why I dropped everything to come. I am happy,
                                        you don't know how happy, to be even this close to
                                        you. I have always wanted to hang out my shingle in this
                                        dear old town. I do not like the East. I am a Westerner and
                                        I can't seem to make myself fit in with the East. I
                                        shall always be a Hoosier, I fear,and hope. Just the few
                                        minutes I have been here in this familiar old hotel, and the
                                        ride through the quiet streets, and getting off the train at
                                        the insignificant little depot, and having the hackman,they
                                        are taxi-drivers now,yell out,"Hello,
                                        Davy," and run up to shake hands with me,well, I am
                                        so homesick I could cry. But you know why I cannot come here
                                        to live and practise. If I can't be very, very near
                                        to you, Alix darling, I must keep myself as far away as
                                        possible. It is the only way. But if I keep on at this rate,
                                        you will think I am writing a love letter to you, when, as a
                                        matter of fact, I am only asking you if you care to see me
                                        and tell me what I can do to help you now,if you need the
                                        help of your
                                    Always devoted DAVID.
                                        
                                    
                                    P.S.If you would rather not see me, don't
                                        hesitate to say so. I will understand. And please do not
                                        blame  mother and Charlie.
                                        They would both die for you, dear.
                                    P.S.S.You will be pleased to know, I am sure, that I
                                        have the five hundred I still owe you in my pocket, all in
                                        brand new bills, and I think you might give me the happiness
                                        of quarrelling face to face with you about the matter
                                        instead of under the protection of a two-cent
                                    stamp.D.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    She read the letter aloud. When she came to the end she kissed the sheet of
                        paper rapturously and then pressed it to her breast. For a few moments she
                        stood there with her eyes closed, a little smile on her lips, the blush of
                        roses deepening in her cheeks.
                    Suddenly she roused herself. Hurrying to the desk across the room, she
                        snatched a sheet of note paper from the rack, seated herself, and began to
                        write. 
                            
                                
                                    DEAREST DAVID:
                                    
                                    
                                        This is a love letter. I love you. I have
                                        always loved you, ever since I can remember, only I did not
                                        realize how much until you wouldn't let me have my
                                        own way about the money. Then I tried to hate you. The best
                                        thing I can say for the experiment was that it kept me
                                        thinking about you all the time. You were never out of my
                                        thoughts, David dear. Oh, how many nights have I laid awake
                                        inventing reasons for hating you, and how many, many times
                                        have I ended up by hating myself. I am a very mean,
                                        despicable creature. I am a loathsome, poisonous reptile,
                                        and you ought to put your foot on my neck and keep it there
                                        forever and ever. Now I know why I have been so mean to you.
                                        It is because I love you so much. You cannot grasp that, can
                                        you? You could if you were a woman.
                                    The boy is waiting for this. How wonderful of you to send him
                                        out here in a taxi!!! I shall tell him to go back to town as
                                        fast as the car can travel. I hope it is a fast  one, because I want you to
                                        get in it and come to me at once. I shall wait up for you,
                                        David. Please come tonight. You don't know how
                                        badly I need you. You must stay here with your mother and
                                        me, and I don't want you ever to go away
                                        again,unless you take me with you.
                                    Your humble sweetheart, ALIX.
                                        
                                    
                                    P.S.I wouldn't quarrel with you for five
                                        hundred million dollars.
                                    P.S.S.Oh, how I wish some kind genie could transport
                                        you to me instantly!
                                        A. 
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Sealing the envelope, she sprang to her feet and started for the door. She
                        stopped halfway, dashed back and fished in a drawer of her desk, found her
                        purse and extracted a crumbling bank-note. Without so much as a glance to
                        ascertain its denomination, she turned and sped downstairs.
                    Her eyes were aglow with ecitement, her lips were parted in a divine smile.
                        She was a little out of breath. The boy gazed upon her spellbound. In that
                        brief, transcendent moment he fell deeply, hopelessly in love,and that is
                        why, a moment later, he manfully endeavoured to refuse the prodigious tip
                        she was offering him. Only when she stuffed it, with her own fingers, into
                        the depths of his breast pocket, directly over his heart, was he able to
                        persuade himself that he ought to accept it if for no other reason than it
                        would hurt her feelings if he didn't.
                    "You must go straight back just as fast as you can," she
                        was saying,and what a sweet, wonderful voice she had, just like some kind of
                        a song he thought,"and see that Mr. Strong has this letter at once.
                             He is waiting for it, you know. You will hurry, won't you,that's a good
                        boy."
                    "Yes'm," gulped the lad, and then, realizing he
                        had not quite come up to expectations, amplified his promise with a
                        stirring: "You bet your life I will."
                    She went to the door with him, and said good night so sweetly, and with such
                        a thrill in her voice, that he experienced the amazing sensation of having
                        wings on his feet as he sped down to the gate.
                    Alix ran to Mrs. Strong and threw her arms around her neck.
                    "Oh, Auntie,he's in town. He is coming out andand I am
                        going to marry him. Yes, I am! Tomorrow, if he'll let me. I ought
                        not to be so happy, I know. It is terrible, with so much grief and sorrow
                        over atBut I can't help it! I never was so happy in my
                        lifenever!"
                    Rushing up to the waiting taxi, the boy thrust the letter in through the open
                        door. It was seized by a big, eager hand. An instant later the owner of that
                        hand was out on the ground, reading the missive by the light of a forward
                        lamp.
                    He was not long in getting to the end. Thrusting the precious letter into his
                        overcoat pocket, he sprang to the door of the cab, jerked out a heavy
                        suitcase and a small black satchel, which he deposited unceremoniously on
                        the sidewalk, and then dug down into his trousers' pocket for a
                        handful of bills, one of which he pressed into the small boy's
                        hand. Then, turning to the driver, the tall, impetuous fare clapped another
                        into his extended palm.
                    
                    "There you are, genie!" he exclaimed exultantly, and,
                        grabbing up his bags, was off up the walk as fast as his long legs would
                        carry him.
                    "What was that he called me, kid?" demanded the driver
                        uneasily.
                    "Janie."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    AT QUILL'S WINDOW
                    THE scraping, laboured sound grew nearer and louder, and presently there was
                        added the thick, stertorous breathing of the climber as he drew close to the
                        mouth of the cave.
                    Courtney crept farther away from the opening and watched with narrow,
                        frowning eyes for the head to appear above the ledge. He held the revolver
                        in his shaking hand, but he knew he was not going to shoot. He thrilled with
                        a strange sort of glee, however, at the thought of the ease with which he
                        could send the fool crashing to the ground far below, but what would be the
                        use? He was trapped.
                    He had a queer and strangely ungrudging respect for the courage of this man
                        of Uncle Sam's, this man who was not to be turned back or daunted
                        by the prospect of sudden death when engaged in the performance of his duty.
                        What use to slay this single, indomitable pursuer when nothing was to be
                        gained by the act? There were others down there to avenge him,to starve him
                        out, or to burn him out if needs be. Murder, that's what it would
                        be, and they would hang him for murder. If he shot this fellow there would
                        be but one course left open to him. He would have to shoot himself. And he
                        loved life too well for that. Five, even ten years behind the bars,and then
                        freedom once more. But the gallows, God, no!
                    
                    He stood up and leaned with his back against the wall, bracing his legs which
                        threatened to crumple up under him. With a sort of craven bravado, he
                        inhaled deeply. The end of the cigarette created a passing but none the less
                        comforting glow which died away almost instantly. A jolly brave thing, a
                        cigarette,No wonder the soldiers smoked them! Nerve steadying,no question
                        about it.
                    He waited. Once he thought he was going to scream. Why was the fellow so
                        slow? Surely it had not taken him so long to come up that
                        ladder of stone,and he was the pioneer, he had cleared the slots of dirt and
                        sand, he had made the hand holds safe, he had torn his finger-tips digging
                        them out,what made the fellow so slow?
                    At last he made out a vague, slender object moving like the tentacle of an
                        octopus above the ledge,and then the bulky head and shoulders of the
                        climber.
                    "I surrender!" he called out. "I give up. If you
                        had waited till I pulled myself together, I would have come down.
                        I'm all in. I surrender."
                    The man scrambled over the ledge and drew himself erect. His figure was dimly
                        outlined against the moonlit sky. He came a few steps inside the cave and
                        stopped, evidently striving to pierce the darkness with his questing eyes.
                    Courtney pushed himself away from the supporting wall and advanced slowly.
                    "Here's my gun," he faltered, and the weapon
                        clattered on the rocky floor at his feet. "Don't shoot! I
                        am unarmed. My hands are up,comrade."
                    "Stand still," warned the other hoarsely. He was breathing
                        heavily. "Don't move!"
                    
                    Courtney took another pull at the cigarette that hung limply between his
                        sagging lips. He could be as brave, as cool as the other fellow! He would
                        give them something to talk about when they related the story of his
                        capture. He would
                    Suddenly the man lunged forward. ... A pair of iron arms wrapped themselves
                        about his waist. He went down with a crash. Even as the cry of surprise and
                        indignation rose to his lips, his head struck and his mind became a blank.
                    Slowly, as out of a fog, his senses came back. He was hazily aware of a light
                        shining in his eyes, and of a dull pain somewhere. Things began to take
                        shape before his whirling eyes. He strove to steady them, to concentrate on
                        the bright thing that flitted back and forth before them. At last the blaze
                        became stationary.
                    Quite close at hand was a fire,a bright, crackling fire whose flames danced
                        merrily. Where was he? It was not like any other fire he had ever seen
                        before. ... Then he saw a face. It gradually fashioned itself out of the
                        gloom high above the flames. He blinked his eyes and stared. Somehow it was
                        vaguely familiar, that face. ... He lifted his head and peered intently.
                        Then he raised himself on his elbow, all the while trying to fix that
                        floating face in his mind.
                    Suddenly his brain cleared. The full picture was revealed: A man standing
                        over the blazing pile of boxwood, gazing down at him with great, unblinking
                        eyes. The sloping roof of the cave, half lost in the thin cloud of smoke,
                        almost touched the crown of the watcher's head,and this watcher was
                        in the garb of a sailor.
                    Caleb Vick! Young Caleb Vick!
                    For a long time the two looked into each other's eyes.  Courtney's wavering and uncertain,
                        Caleb's fixed and triumphant.
                    "Isis that you, Cale?" mumbled the former wonderingly.
                    Young Vick nodded his head slowly.
                    "How did you get here?" asked Thane, sensing peril in those
                        boring, unfaltering eyes. His hand went out to feel for the revolver he had
                        dropped. "WhereWhat has become of the man that jumped on me? The
                        detective."
                    "I am the man," said Cale levelly.
                    "You? What's the matter with you, Cale? This is a hell of a
                        way to treat a friend. What do you mean by helping these"
                    "Cut that out," snarled Cale. "It don't
                        go with me. Get up! You dirty cur,get up!"
                    "My God, Cale,have you gone crazy?" gasped Thane, going
                        cold to the marrow. He shot a swift, terrified look toward the mouth of the
                        cave.
                    "Get up! It won't do you any good to yell. No one will hear
                        you."
                    Courtney drew himself to his knees.
                    "It won't, eh? There's a gang of Secret Service
                        men down there. They'll blow your brains out if you"
                    "There is no one down there," said the boy, a crooked smile
                        on his lips.
                    "I tell you there is," cried the other, desperately.
                        "I heard them. They trailed me here. They"
                    "I guess I put one over on you, Courtney," interrupted
                        Cale, his voice low and deadly. "I am the fellow that chased you
                        here. There's nobody else. Oh, I know they're looking for
                        you,but they don't know where  you
                        are. Nobody knows but me. I saw you sneaking across that lot back yonder. I
                        was down at the ferry. I sawRosabelthere." His voice faltered. He
                        steadied it with an effort before going on. "I was too late. She
                        wrote me. Then father telegraphed me. They let me off. I came as soon as I
                        could. I ran all the way from Hawkins. I knew what had happened. She wrote
                        me. But I thought maybe she'd lose her nerve,or, maybe you would do
                        the right thing by her, and save her. I saw her down there on the dock. You
                        did it. You got her into trouble. You"
                    "I don't know what you are talking about," cried
                        the other. "What's this you are saying? Have you lost your
                        mind, Cale? My God, boy,I,why, what sort of a beast do you think I am? II
                        adored her. Come, come, Cale! Calm yourself! You know perfectly well how
                        fond I was of her. I couldn't have done anything so foul as Why,
                        Cale, she was nothing but a kid, a little girl to me. I"
                    "Yes,that's what she was,a kid, just a poor little kid. She
                        trusted you. I trusted you. We all trusted you. And now
                        she'sshe's dead. My sister! My pretty little
                        sister!" He straightened up and threw his arm across his eyes, only
                        to withdraw it instantly. "God damn you! Get up!
                        Come over here! Here's her letter. Read it! Read it, you dirty
                        swine!"
                    He reached inside his blouse and drew forth a folded bit of paper.
                    "II don't want to read it," faltered Thane,
                        shrinking back. "I know nothing about all this nonsense you
                        are"
                    "I give you ten seconds to do what I tell you," grated
                        Cale, harshly. "If you don't I'll blow your  head off." He levelled the revolver.
                        "It's your own gun,so I guess you know it's
                        loaded. Come on!"
                    Thane crawled to the fire.
                    "My God,you wouldn't kill me, Cale?" he gasped,
                        reaching out his shaking hand for the letter.
                    "Read it!" ordered the inexorable voice.
                    It was a short letter. Courtney took it in as a whole; the dancing, jumbled
                        web of words that raced before his glazed eyes. Parts of sentences, a word
                        here and there, his own name, filtered through the veil,and were lost in the
                        chaos of his own thoughts.
                    He was not thinking of Rosabel's letter. If he could only catch Cale
                        off his guard,just for a second or two! A swift leap, a blow, andbut a
                        lightning glance out of the corner of his eye killed the thought even as it
                        was being created. Cale would not be off his guard. He was watching like a
                        hawk, his body bent slightly forward, the revolver held in a grip of steel.
                    "Well?" cried Cale. "Have you read it?"
                    "Yes," whispered Courtney through his stiff lips.
                        "It's not true, Cale,it's not true!"
                    "Yes, it is true. Rosie would not lie about herself like that. No
                        girl would. Every word of it is true." He snatched the paper from
                        Courtney's palsied hands and cast it into the waning fire.
                        "No one shall ever see that letter. I would not have mother know
                        what I know for all the world. She'll never know about
                        Rosie."
                    Courtney took hope. "By gad, Cale, that's fine of you. I
                        promise you, on my word of honour, no one ever shall know. I'll
                        keep the secret with you. You"
                    "There will be only one person left in all the world  that knows about Rosie," said Cale
                        in a strangely quiet tone.
                    His left hand went out swiftly. The fingers clutched Courtney's
                        hair, pushing his head back. Even as the wretch opened his lips to squeal
                        for mercy, the cold muzzle of the weapon was jammed against the flesh under
                        his ear. There was a loud explosion. ...
                    Young Cale Vick stood for a long time looking down at the inert thing at his
                        feet. Then he calmly stooped over and placed the pistol in one of the
                        outstretched hands, closing the stiff fingers over it. Scattering the fire
                        with his feet, he trampled out what was left of the feeble flames, and then
                        strode to the mouth of the cave. He stood rigid for a long time, listening.
                        A dog was howling mournfully away off in the night; an owl was hooting
                        somewhere in the trees nearby. He turned and began the descent, and there
                        was neither remorse nor terror in his soul.
                    A few days later the report reached Windomville that a farmer up the river
                        had seen a light in Quill's Window the night that Rosabel Vick was
                        found, and all the superstitious shook their heads and talked of ghosts.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
