
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, George Cary, 1839-1911. A Carolina Cavalier: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2335
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    
                        "Good-bye, sweetheart."
                         (See page 100.)
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A CAROLINA
                        CAVALIER
                    A ROMANCE of the AMERICAN REVOLUTON
                
                
                    By
                    GEORAGE CARY EGGLESTON AUTHOR of
                     "A REBEL'S RECOLLECTIONS" "SOUTHERN SOLDIER" STORIES" "THE LAST OF THE FLATBOATS"
                    ETC., ETC.
                
                    ILLUSTRATED BY C.D. WILLIAMS
                
                
                    LOTHROP PUBLISHING COMPANY
                    BOSTON
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1901,
                
                    By
                     LOTHROP PUBLISHING COMPANY.
                ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
            
            
            
                TABLE of CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    Which goes to show that an introduction may be dispensed with upon occasion 11
                        
                    CHAPTER II
                    Two men in a boat 29
                        
                    CHAPTER III
                    In which Roger Alton encounters an embarrassment 44
                        
                    CHAPTER IV
                    In which destiny takes the helm 69
                        
                    CHAPTER V
                    In which Helen tells a little story 87
                        
                    CHAPTER VI
                    "Good-by, sweetheart" 94
                        
                    CHAPTER VII
                    In which Roger Alton encounters the enemy 104
                        
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    Alton House 125
                        
                    CHAPTER IX
                    Jack 140
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER X
                    Men in council 149
                        
                    CHAPTER XII
                    A love and life perplexity 168
                        
                    CHAPTER XII
                    Tiger Bill 174
                        
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    Tiger Bill's letter 184
                        
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    A stirrup cup 190
                        
                    CHAPTER XV
                    In which Roger Alton loses his temper 200
                        
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    Humphreys 219
                        
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    A first smell of powder 228
                        
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    A love letter 238
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    A battle in the dark 243
                        
                    CHAPTER XX
                    Which maidenly modesty makes very brief 258
                        
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    In which Captain Alton meets the enemy and a Friend 260
                        
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    Under the iron heel 274
                        
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    War's new birth 286
                        
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    In which an enthusiastic young gentleman saves a hundred guineas 305
                        
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    Captain Jack's devices 311
                        
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    In the hands of the enemy 326
                        
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    "Tarleton's Quarter" 338
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    Humphreys' story 353
                        
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    In which Alton House receives visitors 368
                        
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    Marlborough brings news 381
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    Captain Jack's defence 390
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    Fire and sword 408
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    The papers in the case 421
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    The end of a complexity 435
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    In which Marlborough attains military command 441
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    Which brings the war and the story to an end 445
                        
                
            
            
            
                A LITTLE FOREWORD
                
                    IT is as a romance only that I offer this book. In using the historic
                    events of a heroic time as a background, and the sentiments of a heroic people as a setting for my
                    story, I have endeavored to make all my historical references accurate. Beyond that I have attempted
                    nothing of the historian's task. I make no pretence of right to invade the domain of that
                    superb scholarship which is just now writing our country's wonder-story anew and more
                    worthily than has ever been done before.
                Patriotism, and an unflinching sense of honorlove and heroic devotionthese alone my
                    themes. If I have succeeded in any worthy degree in illustrating these high virtues and in
                    reflecting the spirit and sentiment of the people among whom this story is laid, I have accomplished
                    all that I set out to do.
                
                    GEORGE CARY
                            EGGLESTON.
                    CULROSS-ON-LAKE-GEORGE,
                        
                            September, 1900.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A CAROLINA CAVALIER
                
                    I
                    WHICH goes to SHOW that an INTRODUCTION MAY be DISPENSED WITH
                            upon OCCASION
                    THE sun was shining fervidly through the pole, rose-colored haze, with list less,
                        sleepy sultriness, as if that were altogether the easiest thing it could do, and as if it felt
                        itself quite unequal to the task of doing anything more energetic or more self-restrained on
                        that soggy, moist, oppressive January day, in the year of our Lord, 1779. Not a breath of air
                        from land or sea, was stirring in the little Bahama seaport town. The hazy, tropical atmosphere,
                        lay like a moist, hot blanket over the land and upon the sea. The people of the town were for
                        the most part swelteringly asleep upon hot couches, or dozing  away the hours somewhere in the shady recesses of their hovel-homes.
                    Along the rude and tumble-down wharves the only activities were those of buzzing
                        insects, flying about with no other apparent purpose than that of fanning themselves with weary
                        wings.
                    Three British ships of war lay like logs in the harbor, with scorching decks and with
                        sails spread out in the listless air to dry, if that might be, in an atmosphere saturated with
                        vapor that just missed being steam. A dozen or so small boats of varying shapes and characters
                        were drawn up on the blistering sands of the beach and covered with tarpaulins as a protection
                        against the warping, seam-opening intensity of the vertical sunbeams.
                    Everything about the shore seemed in a comatose statewith a single exception. That
                        exception appeared in the person of a well-dressed young man who came down to the
                        water's edge in reckless disregard of the heat and with a step whose elasticity marked
                        him at once as a stranger, not long enough sojourning in the island to have fallen into the
                        all-pervading doze. He passed rapidly among the boats, inspecting each of them in turn with
                        minute scrutiny, as if he were cross-questioning them 
                        about matters concerning which he was mightily interested to learn the uttermost detail of fact.
                        The eagerness of his scrutiny, and the alertness with which he passed from one to another of the
                        inverted boats, getting down upon his hands and knees now and then to look under one of them,
                        would have attracted attention and excited curiosity if there had been anybody there
                        sufficiently awake to observe his actions. But the only other person within sighta negro boy who
                        pretended to be fishing off the end of a decaying pierhad fallen asleep in the sun, and a
                        blue-bottle fly was practicing gymnastics around the tip of his nose unmolested.
                    Presently the young man, who from his dress and manner would have been set down as an
                        Englishman of the upper middle class off on his travels, finished his inspection of the boats
                        and walked rapidly to the cabin of the old Spaniard who owned them. Entering the open door
                        without ceremony, he disturbed the midday slumber of the worthy waterman and presently
                        discovered that he understood not one word of English. Fortunately our young gentleman spoke
                        French and Italian with ease, and the boatman had picked up enough of those tongues, so closely
                        akin to his own, to make  a negotiation possible
                        though the progress of it was lame and halting.
                    By dint of much reiteration and many substitutions of phrase, and frequent lapses
                        from French into Italian and from Italian into French, the young man managed at last to make the
                        older one understand that he wished to have one of his larger boats uncovered and turned for
                        more careful examination, with a view to her purchase.
                    "To-morrow," said the Spaniard, after the procrastinating habit of
                        his race.
                    "No!" answered the youth. "To-day! Now! Instantly! Without
                        delay!" He rang the changes on all the French and Italian words that could convey the
                        idea of instant action, but without effect upon the lassitude of mind which held a spell over
                        the boat owner. In his impatience the youth stepped forward, seized the man by the nape of the
                        neckhe wore no collarand by sheer force lifted him from the bench on which he was lolling and
                        marched him to the boat.
                    After much bargaining,during which the Spaniard was not too sleepy to extort two or
                        three prices for everything suggested,it was finally agreed that the waterman should thoroughly
                        caulk the boat, cover her bottom  with pitch, and, by
                        building a half deck, convert her forward part into a waterproof locker for provisions and other
                        things. All this was to be done within three days, with no "to-morrows" for
                        excuse, and then the boat, with its one mast and sail, was to become the porperty of the young
                        man upon the payment of twenty-five golden guineas, five of which were paid in advance as a
                        guarantee of good faith. It was an extortionate price for an open boat, less than twenty feet
                        long and fit only for fishing use within a secure harbor, but the Spaniard, however little he
                        understood of any language other than his own, quite perfectly understood that his customer
                        wanted the boat very much and wanted it immediately.
                    The purchase concluded, our young gentleman, still disregarding the heat, walked
                        briskly into the town. There he disturbed the slumbers of two or three small dealers in various
                        wares, bought a considerable supply of such provisions as might be eaten without further
                        cooking, a mariner's compass, some other instruments of navigation, sundry fish nets,
                        lines, hooks and such other things as one bent upon an extended fishing excursion would be apt
                        to need. All these articles were taken under their purchaser's personal supervision, to
                        the  waterman's hut and left there until
                        needed. So much business had not been transacted in the town for a month and so much energetic
                        hurrying had probably never before been known there; wherefore it is safe to assume that the
                        people whose slumbers the young Englishman had disturbed would have been astonished if
                        astonishment had not been much too active an emotion for them to indulge in in such weather.
                    The town had sunk back into listless silence again, therefore, when the youth
                        returned the second time from the boatman's house; and as he at least was in no mood
                        for lounging or drowsing, he walked away, at a pace that suggested a wager, into the country
                        beyond, and night was near at hand when he came back to the wretched little inn in which he had
                        taken up his temporary abode.
                    The night was hot and close, as the day had been, and despite the warning the
                        landlord had given him to beware of tropical dews, the youth insisted upon having his dinner
                        served in the open air of the garden, under the stars and with no roof even of the frailest
                        tropical sort to shelter him. He was much too robust a young fellow, with his six feet one of
                        height and his hundred and seventy pounds of hardened 
                        brawn, to fear the open air in any quarter of the world. He had taken no harm from the
                        pestilential atmosphere of the Roman campagna, though he had slept many nights amid those
                        miasms. He had been born indeed, as his father before him had been, on the coast of South
                        Carolina, and he deemed himself by inheritance as well as by personal vigor of health, immune to
                        all the harm that might lurk in the night air of a little seagirt Bahama island.
                    His host, having slept well in his chair during the afternoon, was now sufficiently
                        awake to entertain a mildly intense feeling of disgust when the guest declined to take a bottle
                        of sherry after his mealfor in those days men drank their wine not with their dinners but after
                        them-and contented himself with a cigar and coffee instead.
                    The moon came up, round and full, and the young man still lingered in the garden,
                        lost in meditation and cigar smoke.
                    About ten o'clock a stranger approached and accosted him. He was a man of
                        about fifty, tall, lean and of dark visage, with deep set and very piercing eyes, which
                        singularly enough were not black but a light gray. He might have been a Spaniard or a Frenchman
                        or perhaps  an American who had been much exposed to
                        sun and storm. He addressed the youth politely and in English that had no trace of accent in it.
                    "Pardon me,"he said, "if you are at leisure I should like
                        to talk with you for half an hour concerning matters that I think will interest you."
                    "Pardon me in my turn," replied the young man, "I do not
                        wish to seem rude, but I cannot think there is any subject in which we are likely to be mutually
                        interested, andyou are a stranger."
                    "You are quite right," said the older man. "It is unseemly
                        in me to approach you in this way, but I cannot very well help myself. I recognize your right to
                        resent the intrusionthe impertinence if you willbut I beg you to listen for a few minutes to
                        what I have to say. You do not know me, and naturally do not care to talk to me. But I know you
                        and I must talk to you in private, here and now. Listen and if, after hearing me, you do not
                        pardon my presumption, I shall never repeat it."
                    "I beg your pardon," answered the youth. "I owe you an
                        apology. I do not know you, it is true, but I ought at least to have seen that you are a
                        gentleman, and"
                    
                    "No," broke in the other; "I am not a gentleman. I have no
                        right to claim that title in any case, and least of all as a means of approach to you. I cannot explain. I can only ask you to let me talk to you, freely
                        admitting that I have no claim whatever upon your attention."
                    There was a melancholy earnestness in the man's voice and countenance, and a
                        pathetic appeal in his strage gray eyes, which fascinated his auditor. Motioning him to a seat
                        on the opposite side of the tablefor he had continued standingthe young man called for a bottle
                        of wine, but the elder, when it came, excused himself from drinking and the glasses remained
                        untouched to the end.
                    When the landlord had set the wine upon the table and departed, the stranger resumed
                        the conversation, speaking in a low voice that could not be heard at any great distance.
                    "I said just now that I knew you," he began, "and to
                        verify that let me say that although you call yourself here by another name, and profess to be a
                        traveling Englishman, you are really not an Englishman at all, but Mr. Roger Alton of the
                        colonyor rather the stateof South Carolina."
                    "I beg your pardon," interrupted the young  man, rising, and with some resentment in his tone,
                        "I"
                    "Oh, I grant it! I grant it!" resumed the other quickly.
                        "I don't ask you to admit the truth of any statement I make, and you need not
                        be at the trouble to deny any. If I am wrong no harm will be done. Pray hear me out, and then
                        decide whether you will order me from your presence or will grant my requestfor I have a request
                        to make and it is a very serious one to me. I mean no instruction, and I certainly mean no harm
                        to you. Let me tell you what I know and what I conjecture, and what I want. When that is done we
                        will assume, if you wish it so, that I have been entirely mistaken and I will go away admitting
                        my error and saying nothing to anybody."
                    "Oh, very well," replied the youth. "I've nothing
                        better to do. So go on, but understand distinctly that if I say nothing in denial of your
                        extraordinary assertions, I do not by my silence admit their truth."
                    "That is quite understood, sir. All I ask is that you hear me. Now I take
                        you to be Mr. Roger Alton, the son of Col. Geoffrey Alton, of Alton House, South Carolina. You
                        went to England seven years ago, at the age of fourteen, to be educated. You have passed  your summers in travel on the continent, and the rest
                        of the time at Eton first and Oxford afterward. You have recently left the University, though
                        you were still an undergraduate, I suppose. You did so, I think, with the purpose of returning
                        to America and taking part in the war, on the patriot side. This last is only a conjecture on my
                        part."
                    "Wonder what I should call all the rest of your singular statements
                        then," broke in the young man with an amused smile. "But go on. I did not mean
                        to interrupt."
                    "Well," resumed the other, "you probably found it
                        difficult to secure passage from England to any American port not occupied by the British and so
                        you came to these islands, hoping to find here some little trading craft that would take you
                        across to the mainland. In this you have been disappointed. You have found the Bahamas pretty
                        well cut off from communication with America, by reason of the fact that since the alliance
                        between the Americans and the French, a French fleet has been sent to the West Indies, rendering
                        the British tenure of these islands very insecure, and completely stopping trade relations with
                        the American coast."
                    "All this is exceedingly interesting," said  the youth. "To me it is even amusing. So pray go on with the
                        romance."
                    The other paused for half a minute as if thinking how best to present the remainder
                        of what he had to say. Then he resumed:
                    "Finding all ordinary means denied you, you have decided upon a hazardous
                        attempt to make the voyage alone in the open boat which you bought to-day. You have ordered
                        alterations made in her, which would not have been needed or even desirable if you were only
                        going fishing. Moreover you have laid in provisions for a much longer voyage than gentlemen
                        usually make when they go fishing out on the bar. More significant still, you have provided
                        yourself with instruments of navigation not needed on a fishing excursion. My conjecture is that
                        you intend to make the pretended fishing trip a cover under which to get away from the island
                        and out to sea without attracting the attention or arousing the suspicion of the gentlemen on
                        those warships down there in the bay. To make the blind more effective you have engaged a
                        quantity of bait.
                    "Now all this is my conjecture concerning your purpose and your plans. I
                        freely admit that I am guilty of an impertinence in speculating  at all upon your identity or your affairs, or anything else concerning you.
                        My excuse is that I, too, want to go to America for the purpose of taking part in the war
                        against the British, and I should long ago have set off in an open boat if I had had the money
                        necessary to buy one. It was in trying to arrange a trip of the sort for myself that my
                        attention was drawn to your preparations. I have sought this conversation with no wish whatever
                        to pry into your affairs, but solely for the purpose of inducing you to take me along with you.
                        I have followed the sea for some years now and I am an expert navigator--though I have no
                        captain's berth. You, I take it, know but little of navigation, so my skill may
                        possibly be of sufficient value to you to be taken in payment for my passage. I have no
                        moneyindeed I rarely have much though I have good earning capacity. There are reasons why I must
                        not keep what I earn. My service in sailing your boat is all that I can offer. It will be
                        particularly valuable to you when you approach the coast, as my knowledge of the creeks, inlets
                        and other entrancesespecially on the Carolina coastis unusually minute."
                    He paused with an eager, questioning look which the moon, shining full in his face,
                        revealed  to his companion. He seemed to be trying to
                        read the young man's countenance, to find out there what impression his words had made.
                    The youth sat silent for a full minute or more. Then he said:
                    "Let us suppose for a moment that your singular impressions concerning me
                        and my purposes are correct. Let us suppose that I am Rogerwhat's his name?"
                    "Alton," interposed the other.
                    "Alton, was it? Well, let us suppose that I am Roger Alton, a young American
                        cherishing the treasonable purpose of going home to fight against his king. What guarantee
                        should I have in that case, that you are not a person in the employ of the British government
                        and bent upon entrapping me to my ruin? How do I know that once aboard my boat, you will not
                        deliver me up to be hanged to the yard arm of one of those ships out there in the bay?"
                    "I have thought of that difficulty," said the dark man,
                        "and have provided a means of meeting it, which I think you will regard as adequate.
                        Admit nothing to me now. Persist in declaring that your intention is simply to go fishing on the
                        banks off the harbor, when your  boat is ready. Let me
                        go with you. You will be fully armed of course. As we enter the boat I will hand you my pistols,
                        and if you discover at any time anything suspicious in my conduct, you will only have to shoot
                        me and throw my body to the sharks. They abound in these waters and their appetites are
                        voracious. Thus I cannot possibly prove treacherous after we set sail, without paying for it
                        with my life, and meantime, while we are waiting for the boat to be got ready, the worst that I
                        can do will be to publish my suspicions, and, if I were so disposed, I could do that anyhow. You
                        will have admitted nothing whatever. You are a traveling young Englishman with a mind to go
                        a-fishing in these waters. You engage me, as an experienced seaman, to manage your boat. On
                        shore this is the extent of our relations with each other. When we put to sea you are absolute
                        master both of the boat and of the situation. I ask no confidences. I inquire into no secret. I
                        ask only an engagement to go with you on your fishing trip. On your
                            return to this town you can pay me a sailor's wages for my services. There can
                        be no danger in effecting such an arrangement as that, can there?"
                    "No, I think not," said the youth. "At  any rate as I only want to go fishing, and as I shall
                        need a sailor, I gladly engage you, if only for the sake of the laugh I shall have when we
                        return and I pay you your wages. Meet me at the boat on Thursday morning at the flood of the
                        tide."
                    With that the two separated, the elder man disappearing down the narrow street and
                        the youth seeking his chamber on the second floor of the inn.
                    The night was growing chill with the dew which had begun to drip from the trees
                        before the conversation in the garden came to an end. The young man, who seemingly had no
                        present purpose of going to bed, carefully closed the solid wooden shutters of the unglazed
                        windows and wrapped his cloak around him before sitting down in front of his trunk. He then
                        proceeded to open and destroy a large packet of letters, a tedious process as it was necessary,
                        for lack of a fireplace, to burn them one by one in the flame of a candle. He toiled at this
                        task with exemplary patience, carefully gathering the ashes into a heap upon the little deal
                        table.
                    "I must look my linen over too," he said to himself, "and
                        burn all the pieces that have my name upon them. The loss will not be serious,  as I couldn't take the trunk with me at any
                        rate."
                    The work of destruction, together with pauses during which the shutters were thrown
                        open to let the smoke escape, occupied the entire night, and day was already breaking when the
                        young man gathered the ashes into a handkerchief and quitted the room. Making his way to the
                        pier he threw the package into the sea, after weighting it carefully with shells and rubbish to
                        make sure of its sinking.
                    "Now," he said with a chuckle of relief, "I fancy it will
                        puzzle my dark visaged friend to establish my identity if he wants to do that. I wonder what his
                        game is, and what he is, and who? That reminds me, by the way, that I quite forgot to inquire
                        the fellow's name. He is so much the modest gentleman in his manner that I shrank from
                        questioning him about himself, in spite of his extraordinary impudence in prying into my private
                        affairs. Never mind. I shall find out who he is pretty soon I suppose. He will be around the inn
                        to-day, doubtless, and then I'll ask him, as my sailorman, who and what he is. He will
                        give me a false name, I have no doubt, and perhaps invent an auto-biography which will serve his
                        turn for the occasion. He speaks like an educated man and  he evidently knows what's proper in the way of courtesy. Clearly
                        he's a gentlemanno, by Jove, he twice distinctly declared that he was not a gentleman.
                        Wonder what he meant by that?"
                
                
                
                    II
                    TWO MEN in a BOAT
                    THE man, whoever he was, d$iUd not again make his appearance at the inn, nor did the
                        youth meet him anywhere in the little town during the days of waiting. On the morning appointed
                        for the fishing excursion, the young man found him, clad in a sailor's working costume
                        man founding cap in hand at the bow of the newly launched boat. After carefully examining the
                        supplies and instruments to see that all were on board, the young man paid the remainder of the
                        boat's purchase money to the old waterman and that worthy strolled away toward the town
                        in search of rum perhaps. The sailor was as deferential in his manner as any common seaman could
                        have been toward his captain. Yet he maintained a dignity that suggested self-respect. He asked
                        if he had not better make an inspection of the rigging and, receiving an order to that effect he
                        rapidly but closely questioned every line and block and  stay, trying the pulleys to see that they ran freely, and now and then altering the rig in
                        slight particulars. In short he "keyed up" the boat as it were, to fit her for
                        her best performance. Finally he doffed his cap again and said:
                    "Everything is ready, sir, whenever you wish to step aboard."
                    The young man got into the boat and seated himself in the stern sheets, indicating
                        that he intended to sail her himself, at least for the present. Then the sailorman advanced and
                        laid his two pistols before the young captain, without a word.
                    The young man looked intently into his eyes for a moment and then said: "If
                        we are to be companions in this hazardous undertaking, we must also be friends. Above all we
                        must trust each other implicitly. Keep your pistols. I now tell you frankly that I am Roger
                        Alton and that your conjectures concerning my purposes were correct in all essential
                        particulars. If you know my father you know that his son cannot well be a coward. I say again,
                        keep your pistols and give me your hand. Whoever you are, let us be friends before we
                        start."
                    "Thank you," said the man, with a suggestion of threatened tears in
                        his voice. "I  thank you heartily, Mr. Alton,
                        for your generous confidence. It is like your fatherwhom I do not know, however. "He
                        added the last clause hastily. "I must not let you get the impression that I am a
                        friend of his. His friends are gentleman. I am not a gentleman.
                    "You certainly seem to be one," said Roger, as the sailor cast the
                        boat loose and the wind caught the sail, heeling her over a trifle. "And pardon me but
                        that reminds me that I do not know how to call you. Your name has not been mentioned between us,
                        I think. I have not the slightest idea who or what you are."
                    "I am called Thomas Humphreys, sir," responded the man. But he did
                        not go on to say what as well as who he was.
                    "Another thing," he quickly added. "I told you I had no
                        money, and strictly speaking I have none. That little chest sitting on the locker there has
                        money in it, and a good deal of money too, for it is all in gold. But none of it is mine. I hold
                        it in trust for others. Should I fall overboard or come to grief in any other way on this
                        voyage, please open the little coffer and read some directions I have placed in it. Meantime
                        with your permission I'll stow it in the locker for safety."
                    
                    Roger Alton was sorely puzzled. Here was a man who professed to be a sailor and who
                        confidently declared his ability to navigate a ship. But his manner and speech were those of a
                        man bred in a very different school from that whence sailors come. The man was a puzzle in every
                        way, and his knowledge of Roger's identity and all that pertained to him was no whit
                        stranger than a score of other things that were observable.
                    Roger was a gentleman, however, if his companion was not, and he therefore repressed
                        the impulse to ask personal questions. Nor was there time for much questioning. It was necessary
                        to get out of the harbor without exciting suspicion on the part of the warships lying at anchor
                        there, and to compass that it was necessary to resort to strategy. After consultation, every
                        article about the boat that could suggest preparation for a prolonged voyage was carefully
                        bestowed in the locker. Then sailing close in to the shore, the pair dropped anchor and began
                        fishing. Presently they moved on, further down the bay and after one or two more feints, dropped
                        their anchor within easy speaking distance of one of the warships. After observing them for a
                        little while a ship's officer called out:
                    
                    "If you want to catch anything you'd better drop down to the bar.
                        There's no fishing here of any account, and it's best outside on the banks if
                        you can make that cockle shell of yours live in the seaway out there."
                    This was precisely what Roger Alton wanted. It gave him entire liberty to pass out of
                        the harbor, and it indicated that the thought of anybody putting to sea in so frail a craft had
                        not entered the officer's mind even as a possibility.
                    "Thank you!" cried Roger as Humphreys drew up the anchor.
                        "We'll try it, and if we get back in safety I'll stop and leave you
                        some fish for your breakfast."
                    "That's courteous, and the mess will be glad of the
                        dainty," answered the officer. "But mind your eye if you venture beyond the
                        bar. It's apt to be squally in these latitudes and that shell of yours
                        wouldn't last long in a heavy sea."
                    "Ay, ay, sir," shouted Humphreys in the tone of an old salt,
                        "that's what the cap'n shipped me for. I'm on
                        speakin' terms with salt water, anyhow."
                    So they hoisted sail and bore away in a fresh breeze toward the bar. There they
                        dropped anchor again and fished for a time. Then they 
                        shifted their position, going half a mile farther seawards. Later still they set sail and
                        trolled back and forth as if for surface-swimming fish, going every time farther and farther
                        from the ships. They continued this until nightfall, which, in latitudes so low, occurs almost
                        immediately after sunset, and with next to no intervening twilight.
                    "May we not start now?" asked Roger, as the ships faded away in the
                        gathering gloom. "They can't see us and clearly they don't suspect
                        our purpose."
                    "You are master of the boat, sir," answered the sailor.
                    "Very well then, we'll put to sea at once." And with that
                        he brought the boat about and laid her course to the northwest, while Humphreys lighted the
                        little firefly lamp in the binnacle that made the compass card dimly visible.
                    The sky had become overcast with the coming on of evening and the darkness was
                        intense for the voyagers carried no lights.
                    "In the eyes of the law, we're pirates I suppose," said
                        Roger. "We have put to sea without clearance papers and are sailing under no
                        country's flag."
                    "Perhaps," answered Humphreys. "The  boat is too small I think to require registry, but as she is sailing
                        from one country to another I suppose we should be asked for our papers if we were overhauled or
                        if we put into a recognized port. However all the smugglers of the smaller sort, take the same
                        risk."
                    Then in answer to Roger's questioning, he explained that there had been for
                        many years a constant illicit trade between the West Indies and other countries End the Carolina
                        coast.
                    "You see our coastI should say the Carolina coastis laced all over with
                        little creeks, rivers and inlets that no revenue fleet in the world could adequately guard. They
                        are narrow, crooked, and often run into each other, while most of them are very deep. I know
                        some that are thirty feet deep even where they are not more than thirty feet wide. Their banks
                        are generally dense woodlands, so that when a smuggling craft makes its way into one of them it
                        is out of sight at the first turn of the creek, and its cargo can be put ashore
                        anywhere."
                    "But how about disposing of the goods without detection?" asked
                        Roger.
                    "Oh, that's easy enough. The British shipping laws and trade
                        exactions are so oppressive that very few of the colonists have ever felt  much compunction in buying smuggled goods. In New England smuggling
                        for years amounted almost to a regular commerce. There was far less of it in the Southern
                        colonies, but still there was a good deal and it was easily managed. The British law prohibited
                        the importation of ten, into the colonies from any country but England, but a good deal of the
                        tea used in Carolina before independence was declared, was bought for less money than it would
                        have cost in England. But the smuggling has been mostly outward bound. There are better markets
                        than England affords for cotton, indigo and tobacco, and as the British law prohibited the
                        shipment of such goods to any but British ports, why, naturally the smugglers had not much
                        difficulty in finding outbound cargoes."*
                        
                            *
                            About 1750, in an official report, the Royal Governor Glen said to the Lords
                                Commissioners in England: "There is no country in the world where there is less
                                illegal trade, at least so far as I can learn." Perhaps Gov. Glen did not
                                "learn" quite all that some others knew on this subject. He added:
                                "If there were any it would be difficult to prevent by reason of the great
                                numbers of rivers and creeks and the small number of officers of the revenue."
                                Tradition tells us that during the quarter of a century after Gov. Glen made his report,
                                the geographical advantage to which he had directed their attention.Author.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    Roger was not listening. He had relinquished the helm to Humphreys, and taken his
                        station in the bow, forward of the mast. He was excited. He neither saw nor heard, but sat
                        silent, as a supremely angry or a desperately determined man might. He had planned this voyage
                        with a frequently sinking heart, in ignorance of what might or might not be the restrictions
                        imposed upon persons leaving the restrictions imposed upon persons leaving the island, an
                        ignorance all the more tormenting because he dared not remove it by inquiry of any sort. From
                        the beginning he had been painfully apprehensive that at the last moment his flight would in
                        some way be stopped and all his hopes brought to naught. Now at last he was free. He was out on
                        a wilderness of waves, in a frail open boat, it was true, but there was now no official arm to
                        restrain him and nothing more unfriendly than the surging waters of the Gulf Stream between him
                        and his native land in whose behalf he was hastening to take up arms. The release from the long
                        tension was more than he could bear and he sat there dumb in the bow of the boat, while every
                        pulse throbbed painfully with suppressed emotion.
                    An hour passed and a ship's light appeared immediately ahead. Suddenly the
                        thought  came to Roger's half-dazed mind that
                        his companion had proved treacherous after all and instead of putting to sea had sailed again
                        into the harbor and was now approaching the warships at anchor there. He sprang to his feet and
                        turned savagely upon the helmsman.
                    "What light is that, sir?" he cried.
                    "Stand off, sir," called Humphreys. "Let her come round or
                        that ship will run us down in five seconds." With that he "gibed" the
                        boom, bringing the boat about with a suddenness that wellnigh overturned her, Roger dodging the
                        swinging boom just in time to save himself from being knocked overboard. When the boat righted
                        herself she was half full of water.
                    "I beg your pardon, Captain," the man resumed when the danger was
                        past. "But I was depending upon you to call lights. I can't see them very well
                        here abaft the sail. Still, it was my business to see that ship's lights. She was
                        bearing right down upon us. You see as we carry no light we carry no light we must look out for
                        our-selves."
                    Roger was heartily ashamed of having doubted his companion, and he gave vent to his
                        emotion by grasping his friend's hand and saying: 
                        
                            "I know I ought to have called the light, but I think I've
                                been half beside myself since we cleared the harbor. I have slept scarcely an hour for a
                                week past, and what with that and the release of the strain, my nerves gave way I think.
                                I'm all right now, and I'll not be careless again."
                        
                    
                    "I saw you were excited," responded Humphreys." Otherwise
                        I should have asked you sooner about our course and destination. We'll talk it over if
                        you please, as soon as I bail this water out. If you'll take the helm and hold her as
                        she is for half an hour, I'll have her dry again."
                    "No," said Roger, "I'm to blame for that water
                        and I'll bail it out," and with that he began work vigorously, finding in
                        active exertion a much-needed relief for his over-strained nerves.
                    When the boat was free of water Roger sat down by the mast and said:
                    "I'm quite myself again now, and ready to hear what you have to
                        suggest as to our course. I suppose it is hardly necessary however for me to discuss the matter.
                        You know the way to Charles Town better than I do, and that's where we're
                        bound."
                    "Very well, sir, if you say so."
                    
                    "I don't catch your drift," said Roger
                        inquiringly." Of what were you thinking?"
                    "Only that Charles Town is probably in the hands of the British just
                        now."
                    "What! Charles Town? When did you hear?"
                    "I have heard nothing definite," answered Humphreys;" but
                        there was a rumor ashore that an expedition has been sent from New York to the South lately and
                        that Savannah was captured some time last month. Those sleepy islanders may have dreamed the
                        whole thing, but it is worth while to take all precautions."
                    "Certainly. It would be a melancholy ending of our voyage to find ourselves
                        captives and forced to choose between British protection and a British prison. What's
                        your idea?"
                    "Well if they have taken Savannah it gives them a base of operations, and
                        that is what they have taken it for. They mean to overrun Georgia and the Carolinas, and I
                        should think their first point of attack after Savannah would be Charles Town. It seems likely
                        therefore that if they have really taken Savannah, they are by this time either in Charles Town
                        or closely besieging it by land and sea. In either case  that harbor isn't a desirable one for us to make."
                    "Can we not make for Georgetown then?"
                    "It seems an unnecessary risk. We should have to make a run of six or seven
                        hundred miles in all, and every additional mile brings additional danger. We're not
                        afraid of death, of course, else we shouldn't be out here in a boat that is hardly fit
                        for navigating a creek; but we don't want to fail, and the longer our voyage is, the
                        greater is our chance of failure."
                    "What do you advise?" asked Roger.
                    "We've three or four courses open to us," said Humphreys,
                        who had evidently thought the problem out in his own mind. "From here to the Florida
                        coast the distance is smallnot more than a hundred and fifty miles, or perhaps less. We might
                        sail west, therefore, and reach land by the day after to-morrow, but we should then be about as
                        far from our destination in South Carolina as we are now, and a British army would probably
                        occupy the country we'd have to travel through. My notion is that we'd better
                        take advantage of the Gulf Stream, and sail northward till we reach the latitude of Savannah,
                        then make west till we sight the coast. After that we can lay to till night and then run up the
                        coast and into some  inlet or other. If we can get
                        into some little stream like the Ashepoo, the Edisto, the Combabee, the Stono, the Coosawhatchie
                        or the Pocotaligo, we shall be safe even if the whole country is overrun. We can stay in the
                        woods till we learn the position of affairs and how to make our way up country. There's
                        always plenty of game and fish to eat along such creeks."
                    "But how are we to find an entranceparticularly at night?"
                    "I think I can manage that," said Humphreys with a note of
                        confidence in his voice.
                    "You know the coast well, then," said Roger. "Your home is
                        there perhaps."
                    "I have no home," said the other. "But I do know the
                        coast. As a seaman it is my business to know something of all coasts in this quarter of the
                        world, and besides I have had particular occasion to learn a good deal about that of the
                        Carolinas."
                    "Let us sail for the Gulf Stream then," said Roger.
                    "We're in it now, sir, and its current adds several miles an hour
                        to our sailing speed. If the weather holds good and this wind lasts we ought to make port in a
                        week. But the weather may not hold and if it should come on to  blow even a moderate gale, it will take both of us night and day to handle
                        the boat. So you'd better get some sleep on the half deck while you can. I'm
                        fresh, and I'm good for this night easily. You must have some sleep, or you'll
                        not be fit for work in case of a storm."
                    The soundness of this view was so clearly manifest that Roger accepted it without
                        demur. He was soon sleeping soundly on the little half deck with his head resting upon the
                        gunwale. The boat sped on through the waves as he slept, carrying him every moment nearer to the
                        home land he had left seven years before.
                
                
                
                    III
                    IN which ROGER ALTON encounters an EMBARRASSMENT
                    IT was a night of storm and heavy seas on which the two voyagers at last approached
                        the coast. They had sighted Hilton Head early in the morning and all day had run up the coast
                        with the wind blowing hard almost abeam. At ten o'clock at night, with a black pall of
                        cloud overhead, the wind blowing directly on shore, the inky coast line within sight, in spite
                        of the darkness, and the line of breakers so near on the boat's lee that their roar
                        made the hearing of speech almost impossible, Humphreys calmly sat at the helm and held his
                        course northward. It was a perilous thing to run so close to the breakers, and on the part of
                        one less familiar with the coast than Humphreys was it would have been an inexcusably reckless
                        thing to do.
                    "I know this breaker line so well," he explained to his companion,
                        "that I can afford to take risks, and I'm hugging it as close as  possible in order to make out the coast. You see
                        I've got to know exactly where I am, and the night is so dark that I can't
                        make out even the coast line at any considerable distance. There! I know where we are
                        now" staring out into the blackness that to Roger's eyes was wholly
                        featureless. "Can you take the helm now and hold her steady in this sea? I'll
                        take the lookout forward and see if we can't slip into some inlet. It's so
                        dark that I can hardly make out the landmarks while bending over this binnacle lamp. Dim as it
                        is it spoils my eyes for seeing in the dark."
                    Roger went to the helm and Humphreys took his stand on the locker top, clinging to
                        the mast for support as the little craft bobbed about like a cork upon the surging sea. From
                        time to time he called out directions to Roger for slight changes in the course. Meantime the
                        gale steadily increased in fury until it seemed scarcely possible for the boat to weather it
                        longer. Twice she shipped seas that wellnigh swamped her, but the only heed Humphreys gave was
                        expressed in a steering direction, given without a sign of excitement, though in a voice loud
                        enough to be heard above the howling of the tempest.
                    "Port a little, sirsteadystarboardthat  will dotry and hold her so." Somehow these slight changes in their
                        course seemed so well timed as to afford all needed relief, and although Roger's feet
                        were well under water, no more billows broke over the gunwale after Humphreys began directing
                        the course with reference to that danger.
                    After running thus for an hour perhaps, Humphreys suddenly cried out, with the first
                        note of excitement that had sounded in his
                    "Hard a starboard, sirhard a starboard! Bring her around quick! Never mind
                        the sea! She'll stand it." Then as the boat came round, head on to the black
                        shore line, he shouted: "Let out the sheet! Let her run free! Give her every stitch of
                        canvas straight before the wind, and hold her so!"
                    Roger supposed that for some reason Humphreys had decided to beach the boat, and was
                        trying, by showing all sail and running head on toward land, to send her as far as possible
                        through the surf and up on the sand reaches. The young man quivered with excitement over the
                        desperate chance, expecting with each moment to feel the deadly thump of the sand bars upon the
                        keel of the boat. But the little craft forged on toward the line of trees,  now plainly visible, great waves breaking over her stern now and then,
                        with the threat of swamping her.
                    "Ease her up a little, sir, and port a little," cried the man in a
                        voice now cold and emotionless, as he quitted his post and stepped down from the half deck, with
                        the air of one whose difficult task is done.
                    As he did so, to Roger's astonishment, the boat glided into still water
                        overhung with trees. She seemed to him to have cleft a niche for herself in the rigid and
                        threatening coast line. In fact she had been dexterously sailed into the mouth of a little
                        stream which Humphreys had seen clearly enough though his companion had not been able to discern
                        the smallest suggestion of a break in the frowning front of the coast.
                    "Where are we?" he asked eagerly as the boat drifted upon the
                        smooth land-locked inlet, and Humphreys set himself at work to relieve her of the water she had
                        shipped in the perilous
                    "We are in the mouth of a little creek that runs into or out of the mouth of
                        a sound," answered the other. "In fact, it runs both wayssometimes one way and
                        sometimes the otheraccording to the tide."
                    
                    "How on earth did you find it in the black-ness of such a night?"
                    "I was here five years ago on just a night, and I remembered the look of the
                        coast pretty well. I was running out then, and looking back. I had reason to look earnestly and
                        to fasten the scene upon my memory. Besides, I've been about here many times since.
                        We've been inside the sound's mouth for some little time but it is as rough as
                        the sea outside, with the storm beating straight into it, so I hunted for the creek as a harbor.
                        We must work up the inlet a little way and camp for the night. In the morning you can find out
                        the situation of affairs, so that you may know what to do. There's a plantation house
                        up here a little way, where you can make inquiries."
                    Roger could not help observing that the man said "you" and not
                        "we," but lie said nothing. Instead, he joined his companion in the toilsome
                        task of rowing the boat up the stream with the two clumsy oars that were a part of her
                        equipment. Towards morning, at Humphreys's suggestion, they halted and tied up their
                        craft in a part of the creek which was completely screened from observation by a dense forest
                        growth and a denser thicket of cane and vine in the surrounding swamp lands.
                    
                    Humphreys stretched himself upon the little deck, as soon as the boat was made fast,
                        but Roger, with his young man's enthusiasm, declared his purpose to sleep that night
                        upon the soil of his native land, and, leaping ashore, he lay down upon the ground, wrapped only
                        in his cloak, and sank at once into the slumber of a healthy man thoroughly exhausted with
                        strenuous exertion and still more strenuous anxiety, long continued but now at an end.
                    When he waked he found Humphreys busy over a fire which he had kindled not far away.
                        The man had killed and dressed two squirrels and was now broiling them for breakfast.
                    "Isn't it a trifle dangerous to kindle a fire here?" asked
                        Roger. "The country may be full of British soldiers for aught we know to the
                        contrary."
                    "No," replied Humphreys; "they could have no possible
                        object in coming away down here to the sea where there is no enemy to encounter, and no position
                        to defend. You may depend upon it that there are no military forces within twenty or thirty
                        miles of us at the nearest, even if they have marched upon Charles Town and are holding the low
                        country. And besides it is fully three miles to the nearest edge of these woods. The only house
                        nearand  that is four miles up the creekis the widow
                        Vargave's. She owns the plantation to which these woods belong. After breakfast you can
                        go to her house if you will and find out what the situation is. She is a patriot, you may be
                        sure, and she knows your father well."
                    "Do you mean Mrs. William Vargave?" asked Roger.
                    "Yes, she owns the land we are camping upon."
                    "Oh! well, I knew her intimately, when I was a boy. But you called her a
                        widow. Is Mr. Vargave dead?"
                    "He is supposed to have been drowned out there in the mouth of the sound
                        five years ago. His body was never recovered, I believe."
                    "Do you know Mrs. Vargave? "
                    "No, oh no," answered the other quickly. "I have no
                        acquaintances in South Carolina."
                    "I'll introduce you then," said Roger. "She will
                        welcome any gentleman whom I introduce as my friend."
                    "You forget," said the man moodily. "I am not a gentleman,
                        and the agreement between you and me to be friends was limited to cur voyage together. I shall
                        certainly cherish feelings of friendship towards you so long as I live, but I am not the sort of
                        man whom you  should call friend. Above all I cannot
                        permit you to introduce me to any of your friends. That reminds me that I have a very earnest
                        request to make of you. After you return from Mrs. Vargave's house with the information
                        needed you and I must part company. I beg of you, if it is possible, to forget that you ever
                        knew me at all. Pray say as little as may be in any event about the unknown sailor who voyaged
                        with you from the Bahamas. If you ever meet me againas you easily may during the war, for we
                        have both come to Carolina to fightplease let our meeting be that of absolute strangers. If
                        anybody introduces us to each other, as somebody may,very well, you can safely know me after
                        that. But I beg of you, say nothing of any previous acquaintance between us."
                    "But my dear friend" began Roger protestingly.
                    "I know," interrupted Humphreys, "all this seems unnatural
                        and ungrateful in me, but I cannot help myself. Neither can I explain. In making my requests I
                        am terribly in earnest and if you refuse to grant them you will do me a much sharper hurt than
                        you imagine. You will in that case compel me to quit Carolina again, even if I have to put to
                        sea astride of a  log. Will you not promise what I
                        ask, m memory of the dangers we have shared together?"
                    "Yes. In the memory of those dangers and of the faithfulness of your
                        friendship, I promise what you ask, though I cannot understand why you ask it," said
                        Roger, grasping the man's hand. "Whatever else you may or may not be, you have
                        been to me a faithful comrade under circumstances that ought to bind any two men together. I
                        respect your desire for secrecy concerning yourself. If we meet, we meet as strangers and any
                        subsequent acquaintance between us will date from that hour."
                    "Thank you from the bottom of my heart!" responded Humphreys with a
                        warm hand-grasp.
                    Breakfast over Roger set out to visit Mrs. Vargave, having received from Humphreys
                        minute directions as to the way.
                    It was one of those brilliantly sunlit, all-vivifying mornings which are of almost
                        daily occurrence on that sub-tropical coast in January and February, but which people farther
                        north are glad to welcome as occasional visitors in June. A young man afoot on such a morning
                        could hardly fail to be happy, and when we remember that to other causes of rejoicing there was
                        added the circumstance that this young  man had just
                        landed from a perilous voyage, and was again on his native shores after so long an absence,
                        there is no occasion to wonder that his step was light and his spirits buoyant, in spite of his
                        weariness from the prolonged struggle with the sea.
                    But he fell a-thinking, as he trudged onward through the woodlands. His friend of the
                        boat was an enigma that troubled him. The man was and was not what he professed to be. Obviously
                        he was a sailor. So much he had proved by his masterly handling of the boat. But who ever heard
                        a sailor talk as he did? His manner was that of a man bred in good social surroundings, yet he
                        had taken pains to declare several times that he was not a gentleman. He knew this coast with
                        wonderful minuteness and accuracy; he had even described to Roger the windings and the features
                        of the woodland footpath he was now following; and yet he had distinctly denied that he lived in
                        the Carolinas, and declared that he had no acquaintances in the state.
                    It was exceedingly annoying to have conjecture baffled in this way, but that was the
                        least disagreeable part of the matter. For as he meditated upon the singular case an explanation
                        of the mystery occurred to young Alton,  an
                        explanation which seemed sufficiently to account for all the puzzling circumstances of the case.
                        That explanation supposed a fact which the young man found it very disagreeable to contemplate
                            The man must have been a private. Piracy in small way was
                        common enough in those days, especially in the seas which had cast this man upon
                        Roger's acquaintance. He might have been once a gentle-speech and manner. If he had
                        been a pirate that fact would account for his seamanship and for his extraordinary familiarity
                        with details concerning this coast, on which he might have had frequent occasion to take refuge
                        for purposes of concealment. Yet if this assumption was correct why was the man now risking his
                        neck by boldly returning to the Carolinas to enter the active military service? Surely, one who
                        knew the country so well would be recognized by some one, and piracy is an offence never
                        forgotten or forgiven.
                    Then Roger remembered the queer little chest of gold. Where did that come from? Why
                        had the man with evident dejection and humiliation protested that it did not belong to himthat
                        he held it in trust for others and had no right to use it as his own? Late coming  prickings of conscience might perhaps have taught him
                        this with respect to ill-gotten gains, and he might now be bent upon devoting both the money and
                        his life to the cause of American independence as a sort of atonement for years of crime. And
                        his extraordinary earnestness in pledging Roger to silence as to their association! He feared,
                        doubtless, that he might be brought to justice after awhile and was generously anxious to save
                        Roger from sharing his disgrace and punishment by concealing the fact that they had made a
                        technically piratical voyage together, without clearance papers, slipping out of a port without
                        notice to the authorities, and landing surreptitiously where there was no port at all.
                    All these suggestions pressed themselves upon the young man's mind and
                        troubled him sorely, for he had conceived a very strong liking for the man who had shared the
                        dangers of his voyage and brought him safely home again. It troubled him mightily to think ill
                        of so tried a friend; but when this theory of the man's history had once suggested
                        itself, there seemed to him no escape from its extreme probability. All that he knew of
                        Humphreys seemed to point directly to this conclusion. Every circumstance tended to confirm the
                        suspicion.
                    
                    Every act and attitude of the man was consonant with this theory and with no other
                        that Roger could frame. The young man tried hard to dismiss his suspicions and retain his faith
                        in his friend, but without success.
                    When he reached the Vargave house he found it a substantial brick structure, almost
                        square, with a broad veranda running all the way around it, after a style that still obtains
                        somewhat in that region because of the need of shade. There was a broad passageway, or hall
                        running through the house from front to rear, with great double doorsnow thrown wide openat
                        either end. Roger had never seen this house, which, with the surrounding plantation, had come to
                        Mrs. Vargave's daughter by inheritance since his departure from the country. It bore no
                        marks of wealth, but there was about it a delightful atmosphere of comfortable repose. An avenue
                        of live oaks, festooned with long gray moss, led up to the outer gate, while within the small
                        house-grounds the surface was covered thick with flowering shrubbery, which in that region,
                        where lawns cannot grow, is a necessary sanitary protection of the soil from the sun.
                    Roger walked between the two beds of cape jessamine which bounded the immediate
                        approach,  and, crossing the broad piazza, was met at
                        the door, as he afterwards expressed it, by an "embarrassment," which put his
                        wits to flight on the instant. This "embarrassment" was in fact a radiantly
                        beautiful young woman, who happened to be crossing the hallway just as Mr. Alton reached the
                        front door. She was engaged in putting the finishing touches to the morning's
                        housework, and held a broad straw hat, filled with a disordered array of flowers, in both her
                        hands. Her hair had "come down" during her stay in the garden, and now hung
                        loosely over her shoulders in great, irregular brown masses, with a glint of burnished copper in
                        their waves. In short the young woman was charmingly "unpresentable" as to her
                        toilet, wearing as she did a girlish bib apron over her white morning gown. When, with a snatch
                        of song on her lips, she suddenly found herself confronted by a good-looking young man whose
                        knee breeches, brass-buttoned blue coat and jaunty cocked hatfor Roger had dressed himself in
                        his best before leaving the boatmarked him at once as a "fine gentleman," she
                        paused in picturesque embarrassment.
                    Now Roger Alton had seen many pretty girls, of many types in many lands. He had  been carefully instructed from his youth up in the
                        high art of bowing low and yet keeping the blood out of his neck and forehead. But his education
                        failed him lamentably at the very moment of sharpest need. He bowed, it is true, but awkwardly
                        and with a stare, and he blushed scandalously.
                    The young woman was the first to recover her self-possession. Young women always are
                        first to do that upon such occasions. With an amused smile she swept a stately courtesy, and
                        greeted the guest with a cordial "good morning, sir."
                    With many a stammer and a wholly unreasonable amount of blood in his face, Roger
                        managed at last to announce himself.
                    "I am Roger Alton, and I have taken the liberty of calling to see Mrs.
                        Vargave."
                    "And I, sir, am Helen Vargave. I am very glad to see you, Mr. Alton, and
                        mamma will be delighted, I am sure. We had not heard of your return to America."
                    With that she ushered the guest into the drawing-room, holding his hand in hers, and
                        her mother. Then, as if suddenly remembering her disordered appearanceshe had probably been
                        conscious of it all the whileshe said: 
                        
                            
                                "I am Roger Alton."
                            
                        
                         "I hope you do not remember me, Mr. Alton,
                        else you'll think me incorrigible. When you knew me I was a wild, half-savage creature,
                        chiefly remarkable for a prejudice I cherished against wearing my bonnet, and tying my shoes or
                        submitting my hair to the restraints of civilization. Excuse me for five minutes and
                        I'll try to prove my reformation." 
                    As she said this, Roger glanced at a pretty little slippered foot which was just
                        peeping out from beneath her gown, and recovering his gallantry with his self-possession, said:
                    "I'm sure I see nothing which I do not admire about the shoes or
                        the hair just now, and I do remember very distinctly"
                    But the elusive young woman had already courtesied herself out of the roomtrue to the
                        instinct of a daughter of Eve, to put her fig leaves in proper array for masculine inspection.
                    Mr. Roger Alton presently began doubting the actuality of the vision he had seen. I
                        am wholly unable to explain his incredulity, as there was certainly nothing at war with
                        nature's order in the fact that the little girl of seven or eight years ago was a grown
                        young woman now. But Roger was for the moment unable to believe his senses, and before he had
                        done speculating upon the possibility that he  might
                        be in a dream, Mrs. Vargave appeared and greeted him cordially.
                    While he was explaining to her the suddenness of his arrival and the manner of his
                        coming, Mistress Helen returned, announcing herself as "dressed and in her right
                        mind."
                    "Mr. Alton caught me in shocking disorder, mamma," she said.
                        "I really believe he was frightened. He could scarcely speak at all."
                    "Say I was stunned, rather," he replied, and then pray tell me why
                        it is that comely young women always run out of sight when anybody finds them really at their
                        best in the way of appearance? In trying to hide your beautiful hair in a knot behind your head,
                        and laying off your becoming apron, you have done all you could to spoil the exquisite picture I
                        saw framed in the doorway a little while ago. It is no thanks to you that you could not quite
                        accomplish that fell purpose. Nature was arrayed against your rebellious will."
                    As Mr. Roger delivered this speech he looked at the fair girl with a degree of
                        admiration which showed plainly enough that even combs and conventionalities had not greatly
                        marred the comeliness that had so lately startled his gaze.
                    The girl coquettishly arose and courtesied 
                        profoundly, with a laughing mock dignity which impressed him as exceedingly charming.
                    Presently Roger remembered his mission and asked concerning the state of public
                        affairs. He learned that the British had indeed taken Savannah, and were overrunning Georgia,
                        but that as yet they had not crossed the Savannah River into South Carolina. The impression was
                        general, however, Mrs. Vargave said, that the South was hereafter to bear the brunt of the
                        conflict. The enemy had practically failed at the North, the country there remaining
                        unconquered, even when all the principal cities were occupied by the British. The capture of
                        Savannah had already given impudent courage to the tories at the South. It was apparently the
                        British purpose after overrunning Georgia, to advance into Carolina, seize Charles Town, and,
                        leaving a small force of regulars with the tories to keep the patriots in subjection, to push on
                        northward to the conquest of Virginia. That accomplished, the northern states could be attacked
                        in the rear.
                    "The saddest part of it all, and the most dangerous one," said the
                        little gentlewoman, "is that there are so many tories among us, and so many more of our
                        people whose concern for  their property and
                        prosperity, will prompt them to become tories the moment the British seem to be masters
                        here."
                    "Yes, the cowards!" broke in the girl, with an intensity of feeling
                        that the well-bred and carefully self-restrained young women of that day never permitted
                        themselves to manifest except under extraordinary stress of emotion.
                    Roger looked at her with a new admiration. Here, he thought, is a beautiful young
                        woman who has something in her that it is better worth a man's while to love than mere
                        beauty, however radiant that may be. With the stately manners of the time, he arose and bowed
                        low, saying,
                    "I applaud your sentiment Mistress Helen, and I share it to the utmost. A
                        tory who is such upon conviction, may perhaps be respected; but a tory who betrays his country
                        and his neighbors for the sake of personal advantage is despicable beyond the toleration of any
                        honest mind. But as you say, Madam," turning again to Mrs. Vargave, "our worst
                        difficulty lies in the existence of a tory sentiment, and the cruellest feature of the war here
                        will be the conflict between neighbors who were once friends, with all of treachery and distrust
                        and hatred that such a struggle must breed among  the
                        people. It will convert an armed conflict between the soldiers of two nations into that
                        cruellest of all things a civil war. It will array neighbor against neighbor. It will bring the
                        torch into use where there ought to be nothing but legitimate arms employed. It will substitute
                        malice for soldierly devotion to duty and it will give malice abundant opportunity to wreak its
                        revenges in ways that Mistress Helen properly calls cowardly."
                    "Pray when did I become 'Mistress Helen' to you, sir? You
                        used to put no handle to my name in the old days when I used to spend delightful weeks at Alton
                        House and the big boy Roger made flutter mills and miniature boats for the little
                        girl's amusement. Your stay abroad has grievously marred your manners sir, I
                        thin".
                    "Yes, I remember. But in those days the little girl used to pay for the
                        boats and reward the making of the flutter mills by throwing her arms about the big
                        boy's neck and"
                    "Oh, never mind the details," broke in the girl. "We
                        can't quite renew the past, but please call me just Helen. I shall not feel that it is
                        really you if you don't."
                    "Very well, Helen, if you'll call me just Roger as you used to
                        do."
                    
                    "Oh but you're going into the army and you're sure to
                        become a major or something, and then"
                    "And then?"
                    Obviously she didn't know what then. So she changed the conversation, but
                        after that it was "just Helen" and "just Roger" between
                        these two playmates of the long gone past. This was a dangerous beginning of renewed comradeship
                        perhaps. But young people are apt to be reckless of danger in such cases.
                    Having learned that the Georgia country south and west of the Savannah River was the
                        present scene of nominal military operations, and that there was no fighting in immediate
                        prospect, Roger saw his way clear to pass some time at his home, sixty or eighty miles distant,
                        before taking the field. And as he had discovered, since meeting Helen Vargave, that he was
                        easily persuaded to remain at the Vardgaves', as a camp of repose, for a week or ten
                        days at least, before proceeding to Alton House.
                    "I will send a servant down the creek," said Mrs. Vargave,
                        "to bring your boat up opposite the house and remove your luggage, if you will oblige
                        me by ringing the bell, Roger."
                    
                    "Pardon me," replied Roger, remembering Humphreys and his dread of
                        discovery, "but it will be necessary for me to go down there first. I have a queer
                        sailor there, who is waiting for his dismissal, and if I may have a horse I'll ride
                        down and see him. The servants can bring the at up later in the day and as for my luggage, it is
                        anything but extensive I assure you. My trunk, I suppose, has been appropriated by this time by
                        my late landlord in the Bahamas. He will cherish my linen doubtless as a souvenir of his
                        unfortunate guest who went fishing one day and never came back. He will think of me as drowned,
                        and say 'poor fellow,' in Spanish, and put on my shirts with rejoicing that I
                        paid my score before starting upon the fatal excursion."
                    Half an hour later Roger was galloping along the bank of the creek toward the
                        boat's mooring place. When he reached the spot, Humphreys was nowhere to be seen, and
                        after calling him twice or thrice, Roger began inspecting the boat. Every article belonging to
                        himself was in its place, but all his companion's belongings were gone, including of
                        course the queer little money chest. The man had disappeared utterly, leaving no trace behind,
                        and Roger, giving up the search, proceeded to inspect 
                        a pair of pistols and a rifle which he had bought in England. That species of weapon, the rifle,
                        was not very common in those days, especially rifles like this one with its grooves winding
                        spirally around the bore. Roger had been captivated with the gun because of its deadly accuracy
                        of aim and its unusually long range, and he had bought it at an extortionate price, for use in
                        his coming campaigns.
                    The salt water had rusted the piece some-what, and while rubbing it with a bit of
                        sail cloth, Roger opened the little chamber in the breech designed to hold grease and spare
                        flints. He found there a scrap of papera fragment apparently of an old letter sheet, on which
                        Humphreys, with a pencil of actual leadfor plumbago pencils such as we now use were then
                        unknownhad traced some sentences in printing letters, as if to disguise his handwriting. The
                        note was in these words:
                    "I find it necessary to leave before you return. You will find all your
                        things in the locker. If you will rip up the false flooring of the boat you will find the bilge
                        filled with bars of lead. I put the metal there without your knowledge, during the night before
                        we sailed, partly to serve as necessary ballast, and partly because I knew how useful it would
                        be for bullets.  I said nothing to you about it,
                        because its importation was in fact a smuggling of contraband goods, or would have been so
                        regarded if we had fallen into the hands of British authorities. I did not want you to share the
                        responsibility of such an operation. Farewell. Remember your promise. If we meet again we do not
                        know each other. If we meet no more God bless you! I shall place this paper where you are sure
                        to find it when you return to the boat."
                    To this there was no name signed. Roger placed it in his pocket, and tore up a strip
                        of the boat's false flooring. There he found the lead, closely packed and securely held
                        in place by the strongly-fastened floor boards. He estimated its weight at about four hundred
                        pounds, and rejoiced in the opportunity of making so valuable a contribution to the patriot
                        cause.
                    "Poor Humphreys!" he thought. "How and where did he get it
                        all? He had no money with which to buy it, unless perhaps he spent the last of his scant supply
                        in this purchase, leaving himself penniless. Wonder how he will manage to travel inland without
                        a copper in his pockets? Well, at any rate he is a man of fertile resource, and he'll
                        take care of himself, doubtless."
                    
                    With that, Roger remounted and rode away, his pistols in his belt and his rifle over
                        his shoulder.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    IN which DESTINY takes the HELM
                    NOW that all the difficulties of his home coming were surmounted and he was actually
                        in Carolina again, Roger had time to reflect a little upon what he had done. He had quitted the
                        University and come home without obtaining his father's consent or even asking for it,
                        and in those stately old days young men were expected to show the profoundest deference to their
                        fathers. It is true that Roger was now a man of full age, legally free to do as he pleased, but
                        it was certainly not his pleasure or purpose to offend his father and least of all to wound him,
                        by any seeming of disrespect. Now that he thought the matter over calmly he felt a deal of doubt
                        as to how his father would receive the news of what he might easily regard as unwarranted
                        disobedience.
                    Roger held his father in exceedingly tender affection, and the thought of wounding
                        him  was very distressing to the young man. It was all
                        the more to Roger's credit that he felt thus so keenly, inasmuch as he was in no
                        material way dependent upon his father. He had inherited from an uncle a comfortable fortune of
                        his own, and during his seven years' absence from home his property had grown greatly
                        in value under the energetic and judicious management of his sister Jacqueline. For not even
                        Mrs. Pinckney, who introduced indigo culture into Carolina, and who, as Eliza Lucas at the age
                        of sixteen, managed three plantations with conspicuous successwas a better woman of business
                        than Roger Alton's twin sister Jacqueline. But the young man would far rather have
                        sacrificed his fortune than suffer the least estrangement from his father.
                    It was with anxious care, therefore, that he prepared a letter to be sent by a
                        servant to Alton House announcing his arrival and asking for his father's commands. The
                        missive was couched in stately phrases, as was customary at a time when even young women writing
                        to their most intimate girl friends, subscribed their missives: "Your most obedient,
                        humble servant" and signed their names in full. Roger's letter read: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "LONSDALE, FEB. 3, 1779.
                                            
                                            "HONORED SIR:
                                        
                                        "I have the duty of announcing to you my return to
                                            America.
                                        "I gravely fear that in taking the course I have,
                                            witht-out first securing your approval, I may seem to you to have been
                                            somewhat wanting in that respect which I have ever cherished and shall
                                            cherish till my dying day for a father who has so greatly honored the name I
                                            am proud to have inherited. Believe me, I have intended no failure in
                                            affection or duty.
                                        "When I came of full age, and realized the dangers to
                                            which my country was exposed; when I reflected upon the hardships and
                                            privations which thousands of my countrymen were willingly enduring in
                                            assertion of our independence; and especially when I remembered the
                                            honorable wounds you received in earlier wars for the defence of Carolina,
                                            wounds that still pain and enfeeble you; when I meditated upon all these
                                            things the conviction forced itself upon me that the time had come for me to
                                            take up the duty of representing the house of Alton and preserving the Alton
                                            name in that honor it. I could not rest in Englandwhich is now the
                                            enemy's countrywhile a foreign foe was overrunning my native land
                                            and threatening to rob all of us of our birthright as free men. In brief, my
                                            father, I had a duty to do which I felt that I could neither neglect nor
                                            postpone without proving myself unworthy of the heritage of honor to which,
                                            thanks to you, sir, I was born.
                                        "It would have taken months, to communicate with you and
                                            receive your reply, if indeed it were possible to communicate with you at
                                            all in these troubled times. And let me be honest enough to say that my
                                            sense of duty would have impelled me to return and bear my share in my
                                            country's defence even had you forbidden  me to do so. It would have grieved me deeply to
                                            disobey you, but I must have done my duty even at such a cost. One'
                                            manhood is the one thing of supreme worth in this world.
                                        "I spare you the details of my journey until such time
                                            as I shall be permitted to relate them in person. It is sufficient now to
                                            say that I crossed from the Bahamas in an open boat, and although the eight
                                            or ten days' voy-age was a very boisterous one, a skillful sailor
                                            whom I had in my service, managed to make a landing on the night before
                                            last, on the lower edge of Mrs. Vargave's plantation of Lonsdale.
                                        "Finding that no active operations are just now in
                                            progress, and that the enemy has not yet invaded our state I have accepted
                                            Mrs. Vargave's hospitable invitation to rest here from the fatigues
                                            of my voyage while awaiting your commands in reply to this letter which will
                                            leave here to-morrow by the hands of a servant and should reach you within
                                            three or four days time.
                                        "Pray oblige me by presenting my messages of devoted
                                            affection to Jacqueline, and believe me, honored sir,
                                        
                                            "Your most obedient, humble servant and
                                                    son, "ROGER ALTON,
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    "TO COL. GEOFFERY ALTON,
                    "Alton House."
                    This duty done, Roger had nothing to do but wait for the answer to his letter. So
                        uncertain was he of his father's probable attitude that the waiting would have been a
                        very anxious one but for the alleviating circumstance that it was endured in the company and
                        with the sympathetic assistance of Helen Vargave. 
                        There was no company at Lonsdale, during Roger's stay. Mrs. Vargave rarely went beyond
                        the veranda, as she was by no means robust, while to those two healthy young peopleHelen Vargave
                        and Roger Altonthe great out of doors seemed the only possible place in which to breathe with
                        any comfort. This was rather curious, inasmuch as the house was provided lavishly with large
                        windows that were always wide open by day, and the veranda, twenty feet in width, always had a
                        breeze sweeping through some one or more of its four long reaches. Yet as I have said, our two
                        young people found existence impossible there, by daylight at least, and so, after the
                        morning's joint labors in cutting flowers in the garden, these two would wander away on
                        foot or horseback, no one knew whither, returning only when the sun grew fervent toward noonday.
                        When it declined in the afternoon and seemed more gently disposed, they would again weary of the
                        house and sally forth in search of larger supplies of air.
                    They enjoyed most of all their early morning rides on horseback. After the excellent
                        fashion of the young women of the South, Helen was always below stairs as soon as the dawn
                        broadened into day. Had she not the  maids to direct
                        in their work? And was it not necessary for her to "give out" the raw
                        materials for the breakfast she had planned over night? But was there any real need for the
                        services of Mr. Roger in connection with these purely feminine occupations? If not, why was it
                        that he, too, although he had for years been accustomed to a, late rising hour, found it
                        impossible, there at Lonsdale, to sleep a wink after six o'clock in the morning? Why
                        was it that about that hour every morning he descended the stairs, fresh from his invigorating
                        cold bath, and had the good fortune always to find Helen in the great hallway, or just coming
                        into it from the breakfast parlor? He attributed his new-born love of early rising to the
                        glorious climate of the Carolina coast where February fairly puts the Northern June and the
                        English May to shame. Perhaps that was it. It would not be becoming in me to question the
                        accuracy of any statement made by a man who was accustomed all his life to resent imputations of
                        that sort in ways that involved bodily peril to the offender.
                    However that may be, it is certain that at Lonsdale Roger Alton formed that habit of
                        very early rising which clung to him always afterwards. And being up, and knowing that  the tradition of the family, sternly supported by the
                        unyielding will of an ultra-conservative negro cook, forbade the service of breakfast before the
                        hour of nine, what was more natural than that these two energetic young people should mount
                        their horses and gallop away to see how the fields and the woodlands looked after their
                        night's bath of dew, and to watch the white mists arise from the marshes? Sometimes
                        they galloped, just to give the mettlesome horse a share in their enjoyment. Sometimes they
                        curbed their steeds down to a walk. That happened when the conversation grew earnest for awhile.
                    How good, and wholesome it was and how completely in accord with Mother
                        Nature's intent! And how inevitable was the outcome of it all, especially since these
                        two had resumed their childhood's practice of being just "Roger" and
                        "Helen" to each other!
                    One afternoon, the wind being fair, Roger suggested a sail out into the sound in his
                        Bahama boat, and Helen eagerly assented. Roger persuaded himself that his purpose in this was
                        simply to see by daylight the mouth of the creek and the waters beyond through which Humphreys
                        had so wonderfully navigated the boat on that black night of tempest. Perhaps  that was in fact his moving impulse, but this
                        chronicler of the young man's doings, takes the liberty of doubting that he would have
                        made the little excursion if he had been quite alone.
                    After passing the mouth of the creek Roger sailed some miles seaward before turning
                        about. When he did so the wind had fallen to a mere breath, barely enough to give the boat
                        steerage way, or a trifle more, of speed. Roger thought she would trim better if Helen would
                        change her place to one near the stern where he sat to manage the helm and the sheet.
                        "Besides, the sail will shield you from the sun if you sit here," he said, and
                        Helen was quick to appreciate the advantage of such shelter. All this seems a bit puzzling and
                        inconsistent, as day after day at this hour these two were accustomed to walk or ride in the
                        full light of the declining sun, and it had never before occurred to either of them that Helen
                        had need of protection against its rays.
                    As they sat there, the boat slowly drifting shorewards, there was nothing for either
                        to do but talk, and so they talked, in low tones, as if out of respect for the silence of the
                        tranquil sea.
                    "I want to tell you, Roger, all about what has happened to us since you went
                        away, so long ago," said the gentle girl with a note of  sadness in her voice. "It hasn't been all good by any
                        means, and much of it I have never quite understood. I have not liked to question mamma about
                        it. She seems to shrink from the subject so that the least mention of it distresses her
                        dreadfully."
                    "Tell me all that you know," said Roger, tenderly. "I
                        shall like to hear, and the telling may relieve your own mind. When I went away you were living
                        on the Ashley River above Charles Town. I remember the stately mansion, and the splendid a
                        venues of tresseach a mile long, I thinkthat led from the river on one side and the highway on
                        the other, up to the hospitable house. I was a very little boy when I saw the place for the only
                        time in my life, but the impression of its grandeur has always remained in my mind. I think I
                        never saw a more attractive country seat, even in England."
                    "Yes, I know," said the girl, with a mist in her eyes as she
                        recalled the old home with all its glories exaggerated in her mind, as things remembered from
                        childhood are apt to be. Then she added:
                    "That's all gone now. A year or two after you left Carolina,
                        something happenedI don't know what. My father met with some terrible  misfortune, I think. He was fearfully excited. He
                        could not sleep or eat, but walked the piazza floor all day and far into the night, saying
                        nothing and seeming not to hear when anybody but mamma spoke to him. When that occurred, he
                        would touch her head caressingly or perhaps kiss her forehead. I have seen people kiss their
                        dead in just the same way. One evening when Maum Rachel had come for me to go to bed, my father
                        took me up in his arms and hugged me close and kissed me fervently. He uttered no word except
                        'My little Helen,' but I remember that the look in his eyes frightened me so
                        that I dreamed of it all night. The next morning he was gone and a little later came news that
                        he had been swept overboard from a boat's deck, out here in this sound. His body was
                        never recovered, and my mother's grief for him was so great that from that time to this
                        nobody has ever mentioned his name in her presence except under some pressing necessity.
                    "Soon after his death we left the old house. I have since learned that my
                        father had mortgaged it as heavily as he could a half year before, to raise money for some
                        enterprise which he thought would make him very rich, but which ended in disastrous failure. I
                        suppose  that when financial ruin overtook him, he
                        decided to go abroad in the hope of retrieving his fortune. But I have always wondered, if that
                        were so, why he did not take ship at Charles Town, instead of sailing on a little craft from the
                        creek down here. My grandfathermother's father, you knowlived here then, in the house
                        we now have, and perhaps my father came down here to consult with him, and being here took the
                        only ship he could get. Perhaps he went as a sailor, for he had been much at sea and at one time
                        was part owner and master's mate of a ship. All that is conjecture on my part, however.
                    "We were very poor for a time, for my grandfather had never forgiven my
                        mother's marriage, and at first he would do nothing for us, except furnish a very
                        little money on which we managed somehow to live in a little house in Charles Town. But your
                        father, Col. Alton, interested himself in our behalf. He visited my grandfather and it is said
                        they had a great quarrel about us. My grandfather had a terrible temper you know, and I think
                        Col. Alton was the only man in Carolina who would have dared, even as his oldest and dearest
                        friend, reprove him for anything he might do. After that my grandfather sent for us and we came
                             here to live with him. I think the sight of my
                        mother's grief softened him, for in spite of his imperious temper he was a man of
                        tender affection, and my mother was his only child. Grandmamma had been dead for years, and when
                        we came down here mamma seemed to creep back into her old place in his heart. A little later he
                        began making me his comrade and confidante. He made one of the stable boys dress himself in
                        skirts and ride a splendid young sorrel with a side saddle, until the animal learned to tolerate
                        a woman rider. Then he gave the horse to me and every morning when he set out to ride over the
                        plantations I had to ride with him. I must have been a queer figure, perched upon the back of a
                        great horse nearly seventeen hands high; but grandpapa would not ride without me, even when it
                        rained, and as for ponies he held them in contempt. He taught me to ride my horse over fences
                        and ditches and logs and to make the powerful creature do my bidding.
                    "You will not wonder that I grew to love the old gentleman with all possible
                        tenderness, while he seemed more and more to delight in me. He would stand me up by the wall and
                        measure me to see if I were growing satisfactorily. He would push my hair back from my  forehead and study my features intently and with
                        manifest pleasure. In a thousand ways he petted and spoiled me.
                    "One day my grandfather went away to Charles Town, and was gone for a week.
                        He told me before starting that he had to go on business; and bade me go each morning to the
                        stables and see to it that the horses were properly groomed. 'You're fourteen
                        years old now, and getting to be a tall girl,' he said. 'I'm training
                        you to superintend the plantations, so that when the time comes for me to quit, you'll
                        know how to manage the estate for yourself.'
                    "His words alarmed me for the moment, but he laughed so cheerily that I took
                        his talk for banter, and bade him good-by with only a tear or two. Yet after he had gone, I
                        remembered how carefully he had been explaining the plantation work to me for a year or more
                        past, and how he had been at pains to tell me the reason for everything he had ordered done, a
                        thing that he never did with anybody else. I remembered how once my governess had complained of
                        grandpapa for taking me away from my books for so many hours every day. 'I
                        protest,' she said, 'that your grandfather is educating you for an overseer,
                        instead of letting  me educate you for your proper
                        position as one of the fine ladies of the land.' She said this with a tone that I
                        instantly resented. I flew into a passion and told her I would do no more lessons for her, as
                        she didn't know how to speak to me of my grandfather, and from that hour I held to my
                        resolution. I have never had a lesson since. I did not tell grandpapa why I refused to be
                        further instructed by my governess, but the manifest intensity of my displeasure with her seemed
                        to delight him. Perhaps he saw something of himself in my temper. At any rate he paid the
                        governess a year's extra salary and secured a good employment for her with some friend
                        of his in the up country.
                    "When grandpapa returned from Charles Town on the occasion I started to tell
                        you about, he seemed worried and not at all well. I knew then that his business in Charles Town
                        had been to consult the doctors. He sent for his lawyer and for two days was engaged with him in
                        the library. Then he resumed his old ways, as if he had thrown a load off his mind. We attended
                        the stables together and rode together as usual, and often he would ask my advice quite
                        seriously as to plantation affairs. One day after we had ridden to the remotest  part of the estate to direct the work of opening a
                        new plantation there and laying out some drainage ditches, we rode slowly homeward, like the two
                        very tired people that we were. Presently grandpapa said:
                    "' Little girl 'he always addressed me so,
                        'little girl, you'll do famously. You've learned very rapidly, you
                        decide quickly and with judgment, and you know how to get your orders obeyed. It is very well.
                        You know, little girl, that some day when I die all this estate will be your very own.'
                    "Then in answer to my astonished questioning he said:
                    "'Listen to me, child. Once when I was insanely angry, I swore a
                        great oath that your shilling's worth from me. Yes, I know it was shockingly
                        wicked,' he continued, as if in answer to something he read in my face, 'and I
                        have long been sorry for it. But I must keep my oath and fortunately I can do so without harming
                        your mother. I have made my will giving you everything I have in
                        the world. I'm not afraid that you will ever forget to take the tenderest care of your
                        mother. So far as she is concerned, it will be the same as if I had left the estate to
                        her.'
                    
                    "By this time I was crying silently. Finally I blurted out the thought that
                        was in me:
                    "'But why did you make a will, Grandpapa? You are not going to die,
                        are you?'
                    "'Not if the doctors can prevent it, little girl. They would miss
                        their fees if I got rid of my gout by dying.'
                    "His manner, more even than his words, reassured me, and as he turned the
                        conversation to lighter themes we were soon chatting as merrily as ever."
                    Helen paused at this point in her story, and as Roger looked at her, he saw the
                        struggle she was having to keep back her tears, as she choked out the words: "Grandpapa
                        died alone in his sleep that night."
                    The crisis of Roger Alton's life had come. As Helen gave way to her emotion
                        and burst into a. torrent of tears but without s. moan or an audible sob, he made the great
                        discovery that comes to every true man as a surprise, however clearly others may have foreseen
                        its coming.
                    He knew that he loved the woman by his side, and that it was his to comfort her.
                    He passed his arm gently about her, drew her to him with his strongman's
                        strength, and kissed her reverently but fervently. Just then  he discovered that the boat was disposed to run her prow into the mud, for
                        she was in the mouth of the creek now, and it required quick attention on his part to bring her
                        back to her course. As he did so, Helen looked at him, smiling through her tears, as the sun
                        breaks through a cloud bank, and asked, timidly:
                    "Why did you do that, Roger? Was it right?"
                    "Yes certainly. I did it. That to you means
                        that it was right, and it always will mean that to you when I do
                        anything."
                    "But why? I don't understand."
                    "Yes you do. It was right for me to do what I did because I love you, and
                        you love me."
                    Then he passed his arm around her again, and again kissed her, this time without the
                        diamond setting of her tears. After a little she asked timidly,
                    "How did you know that?"
                    "How did I know what?"
                    "What you just now told me?"
                    "What? That I love you?"
                    "No, the other."
                    "That you love me?"
                    "Yes, how did you know that?"
                    "How do I know when the wind blows or  the sun shines? How do I knownever mind, I know it. Besides you told
                        me."
                    "I never did, sir!" she answered with spirit.
                    "Yes you did. You didn't mean to do so, but you told me, just the
                        same."
                    "How?"
                    "You let me comfort you with manifestations of my love. You would never have
                        permitted that if you had not loved me, and it wouldn't have comforted you in that
                        case, either."
                    "Oh, then you didn't know all this until untiljust now?"
                    "No. You never gave me a hint of it until ' just
                        now.'"
                    "I'm glad of that. It comforts me and saves my pride. I thought you
                        meant that you knew it before. But how could you? I couldn't have told you before, even
                        unconsciously, because I never even dreamed of it myself untiljust now. Indeed I don't
                        think I did love you until you just took it for granted. Somehow you seemed to compel me, and I
                        like thatin you."
                
                
                
                    V
                    IN Which HELEN tells a little STORY
                    ACCORDING to the social law of the time and country it was Roger Alton's
                        duty to seek out Mrs. Vargave at once and tell her what had happened no, not just that perhaps,
                        but he was under obligation to tell her that he had made successful love to her daughter, and to
                        notify the mother that at an early day he would ask his father to call upon her and secure her
                        permission for him to propose marriage.
                    It was not deemed proper in those days in Carolina for a young man to propose
                        marriage in any definite fashion until these forms were fulfilled. In many cases, indeed,
                        marriages were arranged by the parents without much consultation of the young people concerned,
                        and without any love making at all except such as might, perchance, follow betrothal. That
                        minutely and most accurately informed student of Carolinian family papers, Mrs. Harriot Horry
                        Ravenel, in her fascinating sketch of  Eliza Pinckney,
                        tell us, that "In those days marriage generally was a very practical affair; not quite
                        so bad as in France; but still the phrase 'a marriage has been arranged' meant
                        precisely what it said."
                    Yet "maidens chose" even then, as we learn from this same
                        Eliza's letter to her father, quoted by Mrs. Ravenel, in reply to his proposal of two
                        eligible gentlemen, one or the other of whom he wished her to accept as her husband. She
                        rejected both, apparently because she was already, though unconsciously, in love with Charles
                        Pinckney, a married man, whose wife was so greatly attached to her that she "declared
                        her willingness to step down and let Eliza Lucas take her place."
                    She did "step down" presently, into her grave, and a few months
                        later, Eliza Lucas became her successor as the wife of Charles Pinckney, and afterwards the
                        mother of the two revolutionary heroes, Thomas and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.
                    All this happened years before Roger Alton's time. It is cited here as a bit
                        of history showing that maidens, even in that time, were accustomed sometimes at least, to
                        insist upon having their own way in the matter of marriage, and that the observance of
                        conventions  was often purely formal. Thus Roger had
                        wooed Helen without anybody's permission, and Helen, as her own mistress, had consented
                        to his wooing. But until the forms were complied with there could be no definite engagement
                        without affront to their parents and offense against the conventionalities of the society in
                        which they lived.
                    But on that evening Roger had no opportunity to discharge this duty. When the young
                        lovers returned from their little but eventful voyage, an east wind was blowing, with every
                        promise of a cold, gray southern rain. Mrs. Vargave's maid reported that that lady had
                        gone to bed with a severe headache and desired not to be disturbed on any account. So our two
                        young people were left to pass the evening together and without other company. While they were
                        at supper the rain began to pour and the chill came which always comes in that climate when the
                        east wind brings in a rain storm from the sea. The piazza was uninhabitable, and the lovers
                        passed from the supper room to the parlor, where the house servants, trained to be mindful of
                        comfort, had lighted a fire of "fat" pine logs.
                    There Helen told Roger the rest of her story.
                    "I forgot the principal thing I set out to tell  you to-day," she said soon after they were seated. "You see
                        I went off into a long chapter of reminiscences, and thenwell you interrupted me, you
                        know."
                    "Yes, I think I remember. I"
                    "Never mind about that now," she quickly rejoined, "I want
                        to tell you what I forgot today. It concerns you, and mind you are not to interrupt againtill I
                        finish.
                    "Very well, I'll wait that long."
                    "You know I didn't mean that"
                    "Oh, then I'll interrupt before you begin." And he did.
                        Yet after awhile she told her story.
                    "Soon after my father went away in trouble and was drowned as I told you,
                        your father was summoned to serve on the Grand Jury. He flatly refused. When the judge told him
                        he must serve he said:
                    "'I positively cannot. Every grand juror is required to swear that
                        he will reveal any evidence he may have of any offence against the law committed within the last
                        six months. It happens that I know of a crime committed within that time, a crime of which I
                        alone am the victim. For the protection of the innocent, and to save a name long honored in
                        Carolina from disgrace, I have decided never to 
                        
                            
                                Helen Vergrave.
                        
                         tell of it. I deem silence an obligation of honor
                        under the circumstances. I must therefore decline to take the oath of a Grand Juror.'
                    "The judge told him that what he had said, made it more imperative than ever
                        that he should be compelled to serve. But Col. Alton still refused. The judge then said that it
                        was his duty to fine your father to the utmost extent of his property, and to imprison him till
                        he should yield. Col. Alton calmly replied:
                    "' You, your honor, know best what your duty is. But I must be sole
                        judge of my own. I cannot serve.'
                    "' But the mandate of the court absolves you from your honorable
                        obligation of silence,' said the judge.
                    "' I cannot so regard the matter,' answered Col. Alton,
                        ' and with the profoundest respect for the dignity of this court and for your honor
                        personally, I must positively refuse to obey the court's mandate in this case. My
                        resolution is irrevocable, because, my honor comples me to it.'
                    "The judge was sorely troubled and after awhile he ordered your father to be
                        fined four shillings, and imprisoned for one fined four shillings, and imprisoned for one minute
                        in the county jail. But when the sheriff tried to carry out the second part of the sentence, the
                             people, with my grandfather for their leader,
                        surrounded the jail with guns, axes and whatever other weapons they could find, and declared
                        that they would tear down the jail rather than permit your father's incarceration in it
                        even for one minute. 'Your father mounted a box and made a speech, begging the people
                        to let the sheriff execute the court's order. He explained to them that his
                        imprisonment in such a cause and for so brief a time, would carry with it neither disgrace nor
                        discomfort to himself, while it would satisfy the requirements of the law. But the people would
                        not listen. At my grandfather's suggestion they unanimously passed a resolution to the
                        effect that Geoffrey Alton should never be imprisoned in any jail they owned. The sheriff
                        reported to the judge that he was prevented by force from putting Col. Alton in jail, and the
                        judge decided that his detention in charge of the sheriff amounted to imprisonment and satisfied
                        the law's requirement. So he discharged Col. Alton and that was the end of the matter.
                        My grandfather used to tell me the story over and over again till I remember almost his exact
                        words. He seemed to want the facts fixed in my mind. Indeed he told me just that one day. He
                        said:
                    
                    "' I once had a great quarrel with Geoffrey Alton, little girl, but
                        he was right and lie was brave enough to tell me to my face how wrong I was. Then this affair
                        came up, and he showed himself the bravest, noblest man in the world. I keep on telling you the
                        story of his heroism so that you may never forget any detail of it.'
                    "That is all, Roger. But isn't it a glorious story? And how proud
                        you must be that you are the son of such a father!"
                    "I am proud of it," he replied, "and you will be proud
                        with me in a little while. Thank you for telling me."
                
                
                
                    VI
                    "GOOD-by, SWEETHEART"
                    ON the next morning the negro boy who had borne Roger's letter to Alton
                        House returned. With him came one of the Alton House serving-men leading a horse of superb
                        physical form and dimensions, but manifestly of exceedingly irritable and energetic temper.
                    The servant bore two missives, one from Col. Alton, the other from Jacqueline. The
                        father wrote after the formal manner of the time: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "ALTOS HOUSE,
                                                    Feb. 14, 1779.
                                            
                                            "MY DEAR SON:
                                        
                                        "I have detained your messenger a good many days before
                                            sending an answer to your letter. I am getting to be an old man and
                                            sometimes it causes me pain to write. Please make my apologies to Mrs.
                                            Vargave for having made her servant await my partial recovery from an attack
                                            gout.
                                        "Jacqueline is sending you horse which she thinks you
                                            will like to ride. When you find yourself quite recovered from the fatigues
                                            of your voyage, please come to Alton House, where we may discuss the grave
                                            matters that present themselves.
                                        
                                        "Make my compliments, if you please, to Mrs. Vargave and
                                            to her charming daughter Helen."
                                        That was all. The father had said no word to indicate his
                                            attitude toward his son's disobedience. There was nothing to show
                                            whether he felt aggrieved and affronted or not, nothing to reassure the
                                            youth who had been racked with anxiety for a week lest his father be
                                            offended with him.
                                        Jacqueline was less stately and formal. She wrote:
                                        "I kiss the hand of my brother and bid him welcome home!
                                            I am sending you a horse which I have bred for you on your own plantation
                                            against your return I call him 'Bullet' not so much on
                                            account of hi speed though that great a because of his suddenness Look out
                                            for that when you mount him. He is as whimsical as a woman but if you are
                                            anything like the cavalier you were seven years ago when the stablemen used
                                            to nick mane you 'the little horsefly,' because of the way
                                            you stuck to your horse, will enjoy subduing this equine demon-for he is
                                            quite all of that. I have ridden him twice, and I confess he put my
                                            horsewomanship to the proof.
                                        "Come to Alton House as soon as may be, my brother. You
                                            should receive this letter on the seventeenth of the month. If you set out
                                            at once we may expect you about the twentieth or twenty-first. So beginning
                                            on the nineteenth I'll order evening and morning fires lighted in
                                            your rooms every day, and even warmer than that of the blazing logs will be
                                            your welcome from your loving sister
                                        "JACK.
                                        
                                        "P. S. I suppose it is dreadfully vulgar to sign myself
                                            in that way, and my governess of a few years ago would have cut off my
                                            supper for three nights in succession for the offence. But I am not writing
                                            under that precise lady's supervision now, and I like to remember
                                            called me 'Jack' I shall always be
                                            'Jack' to you. To everybody else I am, humbly and
                                            obediently,
                                        
                                            "JACQUELINE ALTON."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    As I transcribe this letter from its original manuscript, yellow with age, frayed at
                        the edges, and worn nearly through at the folds, I am impressed with the thought that the young
                        woman who wrote it was not properly appreciative of that governess of whose prim precision she
                        wrote so lightly. For the letter shows that she had at any rate taught Jacqueline Alton how to
                        spell, an accomplishment very unusual among the young women of Carolina, in the eighteenth
                        century, as everyone knows who has read, as I have, many scores of their old letters, reverently
                        preserved in family archives. If any reader feels curiosity to sound all the possibilities of
                        erratic spelling by a young woman of unusually varied and thorough education in other things
                        than orthography, he may satisfy himself by a perusal of the charming letters of Eliza Lucas,
                        preserved for us by Mrs. Ravenel, in her book "Eliza Pinckney." That gifted
                        young woman was as expert  in devising novel and
                        original misspellings, as she was in conducting the affairs of three plantations, managing a
                        little fleet of sloops, developing the culture and manufacture of indigo, making herself a
                        leader in the best society of the time, and discussing grave political questions with acute
                        intelligence. She so conducted her life as maiden, wife and mother, that a century and more
                        after her death she is everywhere held in honor as the best type of the colonial dame, and a
                        conspicuous example of the revolutionary matron, sending her gallant sons forth to do battle for
                        their country, with a fortitude on her own part, even greater than their manly courage could
                        match. As we read her letters, in which "hot" is spelled with two
                        "t"s, "suppose" is usually "sopose,"
                        twisted out of their customary forms, our only regret is that fire destroyed the greater part of
                        those epistles and that so few of them remain to us.
                    But this is a digression. Roger Alton was now under his father's commands,
                        and must proceed at once to Alton House. What welcome he was to have at the hands of his father,
                        he could not even conjecture. But in any event he felt that he had done only his duty as  a man, and he was content to take the consequences,
                        whatever of distress they might involve for himself. In this attitude of mind he found himself
                        greatly strengthened by the story that Helen had told him of his father's resolute
                        disregard of personal consequences when impelled by his convictions of honor to disobey the
                        mandate of a court that had power to punish.
                    "Surely," the young man said to himself, "my father would
                        not exact of me a disregard of honorable obligation to which no power on earth could compel him
                        upon like occasion. Obedience is not the highest of virtues; though our religion is founded upon
                        a theology which holds disobedience to have been the supreme, primal sin. Be it as it may, I
                        have done only what my manhood required at the hands of one born to an honorable name such as I
                        bear. I will hold my head erect as an Alton should and ask no man's pardonnot even my
                        father'sfor doing right."
                    With that resolution he prepared for his journey, which he decided to begin
                        immediately after luncheon, In the meantime he had duly notified Mrs. Vargave of his love making
                        to Helen and of that maiden's acquiescence. Mrs. Vargave received the tiding-s with
                        evident  apprehension upon some account which the
                        young man could not even guess at.
                    "When your father asks Helen's hand for you." she said,
                        "she shall be yours with all the blessings that a mother's love can bestow.
                        But he may see fit not to ask that, and I beg of you, Roger, and shall beg of Helen, to be
                        prepared for that contingency."
                    "But why do you anticipate such an event?" asked the young man in
                        displeasure. "Surely there is no spinster in America better fit than is your daughter
                        to mate with the best in all the land. No woman is fitter than she to preserve in honor the
                        traditions of Alton House. My father will be proud of his mission when he comes to you to ask
                        her hand in marriage for his only son."
                    "Perhaps," said the lady, doubtingly, "I earnestly hope
                        so. At any rate, if he asks me, I shall surrender my child to your keeping, Roger, with the sure
                        conviction that Providence or Fate has come to her, bearing its best gifts. But wait. Wait till
                        you know what your father's view of the matter is."
                    "He can have but one viewthe one I have suggested. If by any possibilitya
                        thing utterly inconceivable to mehe should entertain a different one, why, I am a man. Fullgrown
                             and able to order my own life. In such a case I
                        should marry Helen in face of all objections. I am next in succession as the head of the family,
                        and I declare on my honor that I will make Helen Vargave my wife and the mother of all the
                        Altons that are to come after me, or, failing that for any reason, the Alton name shall cease to
                        be, when I pass from the stage."
                    There was nothing for the gentle lady to say except"Thank you, Roger, and
                        God prosper your purpose."
                    With that delicate consideration which is the dominant characteristic of all
                        high-bred women, Mrs. Vargave remembered her headache and went to her room, leaving the young
                        people to take their luncheon together without other company and to take leave of each other
                        without matronly supervision.
                    Nevertheless it was with a sore spot in his heart that Roger vaulted into his
                        saddlefor the demoniacal animal at that moment decided not to permit his master to mount him in
                        any orderly fashionand waved his last "good-by, sweetheart" to the girl on the
                        veranda. Mrs. Vargave's manner more than her words, had awakened in his mind an
                        apprehension so vague and intangible that he could no more  reason with it than he could dismiss it as a foolish fear. He told himself,
                        over and over again, that there could be no possibility of his father objecting to his marriage
                        with Helen. Her family, on both sides was as good even as his own, and he knew that his father
                        had always cherished them in closest affection. Yet Mrs. Vargave had seemed gravely to doubt
                        that Col. Alton would welcome an alliance with them. What could it all mean? Merely a sensitive
                        gentleman's reserve in a matter so closely concerning her daughter, he tried to argue
                        with himself. But the argument would not fit itself to the circumstances. Why should not Mrs.
                        Vargave, if she knew no reason to anticipate his father's objection, have said to him,
                        as gentlewomen usually did to suitors for their daughters' hands, "My answer
                        will be ready when your father calls to ask for it?" That formula had from time
                        immemorial satisfied the pride of the stateliest dames of the Carolinas. Why had Mrs. Vargave
                        sought out another?
                    Just as our young man had reached this point in his perplexity, his horse, Bullet,
                        decided that the light gallop at which they were going was unworthy of his mettle and his
                        exalted lineagefor Bullet came from an equine  family
                        as aristocratic in its way as Roger's own. Were there not cups and trophies hung upon
                        the walls of Alton House, which had been won by Bullet's parents and grandparents in
                        strenuous speed competitions with the bluest blooded horses on the American continent?
                    So Bullet suddenly broke into a run as if for stakes. His master enjoyed the
                        exercise, and when, at the end of a mile, Bullet decided to dispense with a rider, and to that
                        end began a struggle to dislodge the man in the saddle, Roger enjoyed that controversy also, the
                        more because he was confident of victory in it. His saddle girth gave way but he met that
                        difficulty by placing his bridle-hand upon the horse's withers, raising himself by
                        sheer strength, slipping the saddle from under him, and settling himself in the bareback seat of
                        his boyhood.
                    Having accomplished this the young man felt better in his mind, and when at last
                        Bullet acknowledged him as master, the doubts that had so vexed his soul were dissipated and he
                        was again in that optimistic mood which most becomes healthful youth. His saddle was in the
                        ditch a quarter or half mile in rear, but his servant would pick that up when he came to it, and
                        as for the rest he no longer felt  any serious
                        forebodings concerning his father's attitude and action. There is nothing in the world
                        like a victorious struggle with an ill-disposed horse, to give a strong man faith in himself and
                        in the future.
                    It was with unperturbed spirits therefore that the young man, about nightfall, rode
                        up to a little country inn, with a pendulous sign that offered ''
                        Entertainment for man and Beast." When his servant came up Roger went himself to the
                        stables to see to the bedding, feeding and rubbing down of the horses, and not until their have
                        his own freed from the stains of travel.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    IN which ROGER ALTON ENCOUNTERS
                            the ENEMY
                    AFTER a supper specially prepared for himfor the meal hour was long pastRoger sat in
                        the room assigned to him, with candles unlighted, but with a blaze of
                        "lightwood," as the fat, resinous pine of the South is called, to stimulate
                        his imagination. Now that he had resumed his homeward journey in blank uncertainty as to the
                        reception that awaited him at Alton House, and with the still more anxious apprehension as to
                        the outcome of his love making with which Mrs. Vargave's words had filled his mind, he
                        was overtaken by a great wave of anxiety to shorten the time of suspense to the utmost.
                    "How far is it to Alton House?" he asked when his servant came in
                        to take his final orders for the night.
                    "I'm not sure that I rightly know, Mas' Roger,"
                        answered the ebony hued young giant  of nineteen or
                        about that age, "but I judge it to be about fifty miles."
                    "Where did you learn to talk in that way?" asked the master, in
                        surprise at the partial absence of rude dialect forms from the serving man's speech.
                    "Well, you see, sir, Mis' Jacqueline makes all the black boys and
                        girls go to school to her, so's to learn to read and write, and when I was learning
                        that I tried to learn to talk like white people."
                    "Your Mis' Jacqueline certainly had an apt pupil in you."
                    "Well you see, Mas' Roger, she was mighty learn and not just
                        shirking like the rest, she sort o' laid herself out to teach me. I don't talk
                        right yet, but anyway I aint like the no-account rest of 'em. Mis' Jacqueline
                        said she wanted me to learn so's to surprise you when you'got home
                        again."
                    "Oh, then I knew you as a chap before I went away? What's your
                        name? "
                    "Marlborough, sir. Don't you remember you named me out of a history
                        book? That was when I was ten years old. Up to that time my name was Jake."
                    Roger remembered perfectly, and his greeting  of the plantation playfellow of his boyhood was warm enough to fill young
                        Marlborough with joyous elation. The young master was surprised at the progress his black boy
                        had made in learning, but he was in no way surprised to learn of his sister's activity
                        in teaching the youthful negroes to read. That was the general custom of young mistresses in
                        Carolina then. The laws making it a penal offence to teach negroes to read were enforced only
                        when the abolition of slavery became a subject of political agitation, filling the people of the
                        South with apprehension of negro revolt and the massacre of their families. Those laws were
                        regarded solely as self-defensive measures in the face of a great danger. Until that danger was
                        threatened, it was deemed the high duty and privilege of the white people to instruct and
                        civilize the blacks, many of whom, in the Carolinas, were native African savages, of recent
                        importation.
                    The greeting over, Roger returned to the matter he had in mind.
                    "We must do the whole distance to-morrow, Marlborough. Have the horses ready
                        at seven o'clock. Now you'd better get to bed. Have they given you a good
                        place to sleep? "
                    Marlborough declared himself satisfied with  his quarters, and bade his master good night. But the master did not go at once to bed. His
                        mind was still filled with visions of the future, with plans and purposes and a thousand
                        questions, when the low talking that had been going on for some time in the next room, began to
                        grow excited, so that the young man could not help hearing most of it through the thin board
                        partition and the loosely-fitting door, that separated the two apartments.
                    The men in the other room were playing at cards. Or rather they had been playing, but
                        now they seemed to be neglecting their game in the excitement of discussion. One of them was
                        volubly expounding to the others the prospects of a speedy British conquest of Carolina.
                    "I tell you," he said, "when Gen. Prevost gets through
                        with the Georgia rebels, he'll quick enough cross into South Carolina and give the
                        rebels here their lesson. He'll take Charles Town first, and the rest'll be
                        easy. There's nobody to stop him except Lincoln and he can't do it with his
                        ragged continentals and Carolina militia. Just wait and you'll see merry times here.
                        We'll all get our chance we loyalistsand you take my advice and keep mum till the
                        redcoats come. Then we'll be masters here."
                    
                    The speaker was manifestly in his cups, and as he went on his voice rose higher and
                        higher. The rest were less drunk or more discreet, but Roger easily made out enough of their
                        conversation to understand that they belonged to that despicable class that had been mentioned
                        by Mrs. Vargavemen without convictions, who were awaiting the turn of events before committing
                        themselves to either side in the war. Prevost's presence at Savannah, his activity and
                        success in the work of overrunning the upper Georgia country, and the manifest weakness of
                        Lincoln's opposing force, had greatly South Carolina to become tones as soon as the
                        invasion of that state by the British should be an accomplished fact, and in the meantime to
                        remain as completely uncommitted as possible.
                    "What will happen when the British get control, think you?" asked
                        one of the listeners.
                    "What will happen?" asked the pot valiant one in reply.
                        "Why they'll hang the worst of the rebels and confiscate the property of the
                        rest. Some of that will come to us loyalists as a reward for our faithfulness to the cause of
                        our king."
                    "You're one of the loyal ones I suppose," interjected
                        another of the group. "Well, it  seems to me
                        I remember that you served in the patriot ranks as a militiaman, till the shooting began, and
                        then you ran away. What will the British say to that?"
                    "I couldn't help myself. I was forced"
                    "Forced to run away?"
                    "No. I was forced to serve in the militia, and I ran only because I was too
                        loyal to stand
                    "Stuff and nonsense!" contemptuously replied the other.
                        "You were hot for serving. You tried to get me to serve. You even told me that the
                        patriots were sure of independence, and threatened me with confiscation if I refused."
                    Obviously the braggart had met an adversary with whom he did not care to dispute
                        further. So he changed the course of the conversation.
                    "There's some that try to save themselves by playing on both sides
                        of the game. There's old Geoffrey Alton for one. He has given the governor a thousand
                        pounds to buy ammunition with, but he is keeping his only son in England all the while. If the
                        rebels win he'll be the biggest one among 'em. If the British conquer the
                        colonies, and they are sure to do that, he'll set his young son up as an English  man, and try to save his property that way.
                    But"
                    At this juncture the door between the two rooms was kicked off its hinges and a
                        stalwart young man without any coat on, stalked through the space it had occupied. After one
                        look at the group as the men rose from their chairs, he said in a voice of singular blandness:
                    "May I ask which of you was the last speaker in the conversation I have felt
                        myself called upon to interrupt? "
                    "It is none of your business," answered one.
                    "Oh, thank you," said the youth. "I recognize the voice.
                        You were the speaker then. I am Roger Alton, Geoffrey Alton's son, and I have intruded
                        here for the purpose of slapping your face for the remarks you have been pleased to make about
                        my father."
                    The words were not out of his mouth when he struck his antagonist two sharp blows
                        with his open palm, one upon either side of his head.
                    Then he stepped back, saying:
                    "My name, as I have already told you, is Roger Alton. I am staying in this
                        tavern, in the room adjoining this one. If anyone here desires to call my conduct in question, I
                        shall be easily found."
                    
                    With that he returned to his own room while the men whose conversation he had
                        interrupted stood for a moment speechless with astonishment. Then they ran to the hallway and
                        shouted for the landlord, while Roger was futilely endeavoring to make the unhinged door stand
                        upright again.
                    The house was speedily roused and the stables also, for among the first to arrive
                        upon the scene was Marlborough, carefully dressed in his close-fitting groom's costume.
                        Roger had seated himself again before his fire when Marlborough entered. He had donned his coat
                        and sat evidently awaiting results.
                    "Well, Marlborough, I see you respond promptly to the call of duty. So did
                        your namesake, the duke. I did well m naming you."
                    Then, after a pause 
                    "Do you know what gentlemen have plantations near by?"
                    Marlborough evidently understood the situation, for he answered:
                    "The only one I think of that you'd like to have with you in a
                        business like this is Mas' Charles Barnegal. He lives about seven miles away,
                        sir."
                    "Charlie Barnegal! Of course. Just the man. Can you ride Bullet?"
                    
                    "Surely, Mas' Roger. You taught me to ride," as if that
                        settled it.
                    "Yes, I remember. I told you you must be able to ride anything that happened
                        to possess a back. Very well, saddle Bullet, he's faster than the horse you're
                        riding, and give him his head. I want you to take a note to my friend."
                    As Marlborough disappeared through the door, Roger caught sight of the landlord, and
                        called to him to enter.
                    "I am afraid I have damaged your door somewhat, "he said in a
                        placid tone of voice.
                    "As I shall be leaving here in the morning, I wish you would examine the
                        thing and estimate the cost of repairs."
                    The landlord looked at the door with its broken panels and wrenched-off hinges, and
                        shook his head, saying "I'm afraid a new door will be necessary. It will cost
                        me a matter of five shillings I think."
                    "Is that all? Here take a guinea and we'll call the matter settled.
                        I have a note to write."
                    The thrifty Boniface pocketed the gold with a chuckle, muttering to himself
                        "It will build the partition wall I've always wanted between these
                        rooms."
                    
                    Roger called to him as he descended the stairs, and bade him send a dozen extra
                        caudles, and bring his bill. Then the young man hastily scribbled the note that Marlborough was
                        to bear to his old-time boy friend.
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "MY DEAR CHARLIE,"
                                    
                                    it ran, "I have had to slap a fellow's ears for his
                                        insolence here, and of course I shall hear from him before morning. If you have
                                        anything of the old spirit of our boyhood left in you, after all these years,
                                        you will be glad to ride over and act for me. I haven't seen you since
                                        we were fourteen years old or so, but you know the adage about the twig and the
                                        tree, and I remember how ready you used to be for any battle in any good cause.
                                    "Ride over as quickly as you can, and forever oblige,
                                    
                                        "Your old comrade,
                                            "ROGER ALTON.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "TORRANCE'S TAVERN."
                    Soon after Marlborough set off with this missive, promising for Bullet and himself to
                        reach the Barnegal plantation within three quarters of an hour, the landlord knocked at
                        Roger's door, and upon entering informed the young man that three of the four men who
                             had occupied the next roomnow vacated wished to
                        speak with him "in quite a friendly way."
                    Roger bade the landlord usher them into his presence, and arose to receive them. One
                        of them announced their names, and said:
                    "Mr. Alton, we have come to make our apologies for even listening to the
                        words that you have so properly resented. I beg you to believe that we three were merely
                        listeners, and perhaps you could not help overhearing enough of what was said to discover that
                        we rather ridiculed than accepted the boastful utterances of our companion. At any rate we
                        assure you that such was the casegentlemen I speak for all of us, do I not?and we have come, as
                        1 said before to beg your pardon, as gentlemen should, upon such an occasion."
                    Roger paused half a minute before replying. From the first he had been resolute to
                        keep his tongue in leash and his temper under his conduct of the quarrel. After the pause he
                        said, with a very marked calmness of manner.
                    "I accept your apologies, gentlemen. I have not had the honor of meeting any
                        of you before, and this meeting would be a pleasure to me, except for mywell let me say my
                        regret  for the company you have been keeping. Let us
                        put that aside. Your apologyin which I understood that you all share?"he paused till
                        his implied question was answered affirmatively by each-" your apology leaves no ground
                        of offence between you and me."
                    The spokesman thanked him, and then added
                    "The other manthe one whose language you so justly resented"
                    "And whose ears I slapped," interjected Roger.
                    "Yes, whose ears you slapped," assented the spokesman,
                        "has been put to bed, drunk. Perhaps you will overlook his offence, in consideration of
                        his intoxicated condition."
                    "Oh, as to that," said Roger still speaking with the gentleness of
                        a professor expounding a principle to a female seminary class, "as to that I conceive
                        that it is his business to communicate with me rather than mine to consider him. I have slapped
                        his jaws before witnesses, as you remember. I have notified him of my whereabouts and of my
                        readiness to answer for my conduct. Naturally I expect him to call upon me to justify or atone
                        for my acts. To that end I have sent my servant for a friend to represent me. If the person
                        whose jaws I have  slapped, does not ask for
                        reparation, I shall of course post him in the tavern porch as a liar and a coward, and proceed
                        upon my way to Alton House, where I had hoped to be by nightfall of the coming day."
                    "But the man is hopelessly drunk," broke in one of the others.
                    "That entails upon me the disagreeable necessity of waiting here till he
                        becomes sober again," answered Roger. "I could not think of depriving him of
                        the opportunity of meeting me."
                    "He will apologize of course," said the one who had acted as
                        spokesman.
                    "He can make no apology that I can accept. He has insolently traduced my
                        father. Even his drunkenness cannot excuse that. I have punished him by putting upon him in the
                        presence of others the worst affront that it is possible for one man to put upon another. I have
                        publicly slapped his jaws. I now decline, very peremptorily and finally, to accept any apology
                        at his hands. You tell me that he is at present drunk. Very well, I will tarry here, as I said
                        before, till he gets sober. Gentlemen, f bid you good night."
                    So he bowed them out.
                    A few minutes later there came a furious 
                        clatter of hoofs in the road below, and before Roger thought there was time for one to fling
                        himself from his horse, Charles Barnegal came up the stairs three steps at a time, rushed into
                        the room, and clasped the comrade of his boyhood in his stalwart arms.
                    "Welcome home, old fellow!" he said. "So you're
                        at it already? Fighting the enemy? By the way, who is the enemy?"
                    After returning the greeting Roger said,
                    "I believe the man's name is Gilfoyle, or something like
                        that."
                    "Gilfoyleoh yes, I know him. He's scarcely a gentleman. If he
                        forced a quarrel on you might very well refuse to meet him, as man not in our class.
                        But"
                    "But in this case I desire to meet him," said Roger. "One
                        doesn't exact that a cur shall be a dog of gentlemanly demeanor before kicking him for
                        snarling."
                    "Oh certainly not," said Barnegal. "I was only thinking
                        what a favor you will confer upon this fellow by fighting him. You'll actually set him
                        up in the community by recognizing him as a man entitled to be confronted by a gentleman at ten
                        paces from a pistol's mouth. By the way, where are your pistols? I'll look
                        them over while you stir up the landlord  and the
                        cook and order some breakfast. No gentleman should fight on an empty stomach. It unsteadies his
                        nerves, and besides, if he should happen to get a bullet lodged anywhere in his anatomy, the
                        doctors wouldn't let him eat anything for oh, ever so long."
                    "You're the same old Charlie, I see," said Roger grasping
                        his hand. "You make a jest of everything. But as I am distinctly hungry, and as
                        daylight must be near, I'll order breakfast at once."
                    He left the room for that purpose, and meantime young Barnegal had possessed himself
                        of Roger's pistols and had set to work to put them in perfect order, with newly fringed
                        flints, and barrels "as clean as a hound's tooth" in the bore, as he
                            said.*
                        
                            *
                            Gov. Roosevelt did not invent that simile. I found it thirty odd years ago in
                                an old manuscript, used precisely as it is here.Author.
                        
                    
                    The breakfast was ordered through Marlborough, and that ebony aristocrat not only
                        served it, but superintended its preparation. He apologized for the coffee:
                    "The coffee ain't up to standard, Mas' Roger, but
                        that's because there ain't noain't any good coffee in the house. I
                        stopped the cook from making it in a pot full of old grounds-anyhow.  I'd have broken her neck for trying that trick, if
                        she'd been a man. As it was I only kicked the coffee pot into kingdom come,
                        so's she had to make your coffee in a kettle. I had to throw out three pans of poached
                        eggs before I got one that wasn't overdone. No gentleman can pull a trigger right when
                        he has a hard egg in his stomach. As for the ham, I broiled that myself on the point of a
                        stick."
                    "The breakfast is quite satisfactory, Marlborough," said the
                        master. "Indeed I count your campaign in the kitchen as one of the best you ever
                        fought. By the way, do you belong to me, or to my father, or to your Mis'
                        Jacqueline?"
                    "I am proud to belong to you, Mas' Roger," answered the
                        man. "My mother was your Matimy, you know, and she was one of the people from your
                        place."
                    "Oh yes I know. I remember Maumy and when she died I shed the bitterest
                        tears of my lifeGod rest her dear soul! Never mind that now. I like you. Marlborough, and if
                        you'll hand me that pen, ink and paper over there, I'll set you free, this
                        instant, in case anything should happen to me. You deserve it. You have tried to make a man of
                        yourself."
                    The negro relapsed instantly into the dialect  of his race, as he always did when moved to strong emotion.
                    "For Gawd's sake don't, Mas' Roger. I'se
                        Marlborough Alton now. If you sets me free, I'll be jest Marlborough nothingor may be
                        jest Jake. For the Lawd's sake, my mastah don't set me free, but jes'
                        lem me be your own pussonal servant as I is now. Lem's me go to de wah you
                        an', foh de wah wid you an'.foh de Lawd, Marlborough Alton 'll never
                        disgrace de name he beahs!"
                    And so this hereditary bondman remained, of his own free choice, in a slavery that
                        made him a member of a distinguished family and held him in close bonds of affection with its
                        people.
                    I have no purpose, in recording this incident, which is only one among thousands of
                        like kind, to say one word in favor of the institution of slavery,now dead and done for,with all
                        its possibilities of evil. I desire only as a faithful chronicler to show how the more strictly
                        domestic and personally serving negroes regarded the institution, how closely the ties of
                        affection were knitted between them and their kindly masters, and how great the pride of
                        servants was in their dependence upon families of distinction. Marlborough's case was
                        historic in the family to which he belonged, and I have faithfully transcribed the tradition. I
                        have in  my own person known many others like it, one
                        of which at least, I have lovingly recorded in literature.*
                        
                            *
                            See the story "My Friend Phil., in Southern soldier Stories.
                                "Author.
                        
                    
                    An hour passed, daylight came, and still no word had been received from
                        Roger's antagonist. Finally that young man lost patience and sent Marlborough to summon
                        the landlord. When he entered, Roger asked placidly:
                    "Has the drunken gentleman got sober get? Is he out of bed?"
                    The landlord hesitated, and the hesitation was irritating.
                    "Why don't you answer? Or must I ask my friend to go and look the
                        fellow up?"
                    "Well sir," said Boniface at last, "I hope you
                        won't blame me. You'll remember that I
                        didn't tell you he had gone to bed. It was the other gentlemen who said that."
                    "What do you mean? "asked Roger, delivering his questions like
                        pistol shots. "Where is the fellow? What do you know? Answer, man, or
                        I'llpshaw! I didn't mean to lose my temper with a tavern keeper. But answer
                        me."
                    
                    In that day, and for nearly a century afterwards, southern hospitality held country
                        tavern keeping in something like contempt. The tavern keeper was a man who charged money for
                        entertaining strangers, and no southern gentleman would do that. So the tavern keeper was held
                        to be an inferior, and naturally he was so, because only men of inferior character would subject
                        themselves to the discredit of engaging in an occupation that was held in marked disrepute,
                        however honorable that occupation might be in itself.
                    "Well you see, sir, I think Mr. Gilfoyle was afraid to remain till morning.
                        He said he wasn't afraid of you sirthough perhaps that might have had something to do
                        with itbut he has been talking a good deal in this part of the country, and if anythingwell
                        anything emphatic happened about it, he might get into trouble. So he went away about
                        mid-night."
                    "Where did he go?"
                    "He didn't say, sir. But he took the main road south, and I reckon
                        he's gone to Georgia for safety, sir."
                    Roger looked at Barnegal in bewilderment. Barnegal tried to look serious, but failed.
                        Instead he burst out laughing.
                    
                    "Gone to Georgia for safety, eh? Well he possesses the better part of valor
                        anyhow. Roger I'll never forgive you for breaking up my night's sleep to deal
                        with a fellow like that. Still, before I completely break with you, and just for the sake of
                        hearing about your return to America and all the rest of it, I'm going to ride half way
                        to Alton House with you to-day. Perhaps I may even overlook the past and take you into my favor
                        again, if you'll promise to select the right kind of men to quarrel with hereafter.
                        Call out an overseer, next time, or a tavern keeper, or a sturdy beggar, but no more Gilfoyles
                        please."
                    Roger did not yet quite understand. "Why has the fellow gone to Georgia?
                        "he asked.
                    "Why, you ridiculous Englishman, don't you understand that he is an
                        emissary caught in the act of stirring up sedition? He's an agent of the British and he
                        has fled to their protection, to save his neck from a stretching."
                    "Oh well, I'll post him as a coward, and"
                    "What use will there be in that? He'll never come to this region
                        again unless it is behind a British regiment, and he won't mind what you or any body
                        else says or thinks about him.  Save your paper and
                        your temper, and let Marlborough bring us a second cup of coffee to ride on. We'll be
                        off by eight o'clock."
                    So ended Roger Alton's first conflict with the enemy.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    ALTON HOUSE
                    IT was seven o'clock in the evening and quite dark when Roger and his
                        serving man turned out of the highway, into the mile long live-oak avenue that led up to Alton
                        House. The great gnarled branches of the oaks arched completely over the driveway meeting in the
                        middle and forming a canopy through which scarcely a star could send a beam of light. The long
                        gray moss, hanging almost to the ground on the sides of the road and festooned in the middle to
                        the level of a horseman's head, rendered the darkness almost tangible.
                    "There's nothing for it, Marlborough, but to give the horses their
                        heads," said Roger after riding twice into the ditch, "and let them find their
                        own footing."
                    Just then the hoofbeats of horses were heard in front, a thing that required
                        attention in a time of such disturbance and in a place so  lonely. For Alton House stood hear the middle of an estate of thirty thousand
                        acres, nine-tenths of which was a primeval woodland, and there were highwaymen in the country
                        side willing enough to take advantage of the loneliness. Roger knew that his coming had been
                        heralded from the tavern where his altercation with Gil-foyle had occurred; he was known to
                        carry gold on his person, the sum of which might easily have been exaggerated in the minds of
                        lawless night-riders; and there was the added chance of an encounter with vengeful tories, set
                        on perhaps by his skulking antagonist of the night before, to take a satisfaction which Gilfoyle
                        had not dared seek in the open. That worthy had taken the road south, or at least the landlord
                        had so reported. But the landlord might have lied, or if he had told the truth, the man might
                        easily have changed his route. With six or eight hours the start, nothing could be easier than
                        for him to reach the Alton House estate in advance of its returning heir. And what was likelier
                        than that he, with a companion or two, should select the darkness of the live-oak avenue as a
                        cover for his contemplated crime?
                    These thoughts occurred to Marlborough as well as to his master, and with a prudence
                             that suggested the strategist, the young negro
                        said in a low tone:
                    "We'd better stop under the trees at the side of the road,
                        Mas' Roger, an' keep still till it's time to shoot."
                    But Roger was quite otherwise minded.
                    "No," he said, almost in a whisper. "This is Alton House
                        property, and I've a right to ride up this road without asking anybody's
                        permission. We'll keep right on in the open and if anybody disputes our way
                        we'll defend ourselves. Have your pistols ready," for the trusted servant had
                        been fully armed before being sent on the long journey to Lonsdale in charge of two valuable
                        horses.
                    Then Roger transferred his own pistols from his belt to his boot tops, for greater
                        convenience in use, unslung his rifle and laid that weapon across the saddle in front of him.
                    Meantime the hoofbeats ahead, drew rapidly nearer, and though they were muffled by
                        the sand of the road, Marlborough's practiced ear was able to make out from their sound
                        that the approaching cavalcade numbered but two riders.
                    "Very well," said Roger when Marlborough informed him of the
                        fact," that's just one apiece for us."
                    
                    Just then a glint of white appeared, and Marlborough recognized it.
                    "Don't shoot, sir," he eagerly called out,"
                        it's Mis' Jack on her white filly."
                    A moment later the twin brother and sister were clasped in each other's
                        arms, though still on horseback. Bullet objected, of course. Or perhaps it was not so much
                        objection on his part as recognition of an opportunity. Here was his chance to unhorse the young
                        man who had so gallantly mastered him less than two days before, and he seized it. Roger had let
                        his bridle fall as he embraced his sister, whose horse's head was turned in a direction
                        opposite Bullet's own. So Bullet broke instantly into a run, thinking, doubtless, to
                        throw both his enemies to the ground. And but for Roger's superb strength and quickness
                        it would have fared ill with Jacqueline, who had thrown her foot from the stirrup, the better to
                        embrace her brother. Instantly seeing that to loose his hold would be to let his sister fall,
                        the stalwart young athlete lifted the girl out of her saddle, and swung her to a seat on
                        Bullet's withers with his right arm, while with the other he regained possession of his
                        bridle. The beast,which ought to have been born a century later as a locomotivebecame infuriated
                             when he felt the unaccustomed weight on his
                        withers and on his neck. He ceased to ran, and began instead to rear and plunge in a way that at
                        times threatened a complete backward summersault, and Roper, with but one hand free, had the
                        greatest difficulty in saving his sister, who of course had no adequate seat forward of the
                        saddle, from falling under the maddened animal's hoofs.
                    Marlborough and the groom who had accompanied Jacqueline on her night ride,
                        dismounted and came up as quickly as possible, and in the darkness tried to seize
                        Bullet's bridle by the bit. With one of his forehoofs the horse knocked the groom down,
                        nearly braining him. Marlborough had better fortune or a superior skill. He caught the bridle in
                        his left hand, and with a dexterous reach seized the horse by the nostrils, compressing them in
                        a vise-like grip that completely stopped the animal's breath, for a horse breathes only
                        through the nostrils. Twice the negro was lifted into the air and violently dashed to earth
                        again, but with truly heroic determination, he held on, regardless of himself, until the beast
                        sank to his knees, exhausted by his inability to breathe. Jacqueline quickly slipped off and
                        stepped well out of the way of possible hoofblows.
                    
                    "Is you safe, Mis' Jack?" asked Marlborough whose
                        excitement was too great for grammar. Upon learning that she was quite safe the negro released
                        his hold, and after two or three deep inspirations, Bullet regained strength enough to stagger
                        to his feet again with his master still on his back, for Roger Alton was much too learned in
                        horse-lore not to know that Bullet would interpret dismounting on his part as surrender and take
                        heart for future exploits of demoniacal revolt against the mastery of man.
                    A few hurried inquiries revealed that Jacqueline was unhurt, that the groom, though
                        severely knocked about, was not dangerously injured, and that Marlborough had come out of the
                        encounter with no worse results than a few contusions which he declared did not "even
                        call for opodeldoc."
                    When Jacqueline had remounted her filly, and Roger had recovered his rifle, dropped
                        in the course of the struggle, the brother and sister resumed the journey toward home, Bullet
                        still showing physical feebleness from the suffocation that Marlborough had administered, but
                        still manifesting an unbroken spirit by violent snortings and head shakings. He had had a second
                        lesson in subjection, and he did not like it.
                    
                    "Though you are not hurt, dear," said Roger as the servants fell to
                        the rear, "your nerves must be terribly shaken."
                    "Not a bit of it," answered the girl with a laugh. "My
                        nerves are thoroughly well behavedmuch more tractable indeed than their owner is. Nothing ever
                        unsettles them. They are true Alton nerves, and a little escapade like that rather titilates
                        than shocks them. Don't you think there was a mistake Roger? Oughtn't I to
                        have been your brother, instead of your sister?"
                    "Then I should have been the girl," answered the stalwart youth
                        with a smile in his voice.
                    "Oh no! no! you'd be a monster as a woman! Think of a girl over six
                        feet high and weighing a hundred and ever so many pounds? That would be dreadful! But if I had
                        been a boy too, maybe I'd have grown up a bit more. Think of it Roger, I'm
                        only a mite of a girl, five feet highwhen I stretch a littleanddon't tell anybodybut I
                        can run and jump as high as that!'"
                    "How do you know that?"
                    "Oh I've tried it, over a fence, and oh Roger, cousin Jane caught
                        me doing it, only yesterday, and was terribly shocked. I'm glad  there's no trouble with her heart! She'd be dead by
                        this time, if there were. But she's hard at work, I know, on a lecture to be delivered
                        for my sole edification, on 'The Duty of a Well Bred Young Woman to Comport Herself
                        with Dignity and Modesty.' There's a capital letter to every word in that
                        phrase, and she'll lay stress upon every single one of them."
                    "So you've been misbehaving, have you?"
                    "Oh yes, I always do that. I'm dreadful! Cousin Jane will tell you
                        so. You see I can spell English correctly and I can't conjugate French verbs half
                        right. Isn't that fearful. Now get a good rein on Bullet, for I'm going to
                        kiss you, Roger!"
                    A moment later she resumed her rattling chatter.
                    "But I haven't told you the worst. I can swim like a duck, and I
                        wear heels on my shoes! Isn't it awful? Cousin Jane says it's a disgrace to
                        the family, and she often says 'poor motherless child, what will become of
                        her?' And then father laughs, and then cousin Jane says, 'why Geoffrey,
                        she's shamefully healthy! Shamefully, I tell you!' Now that you're
                        home again, Roger, maybe you'll reform me. You see I can ride and shoot, and swim and
                        walk, and jumpparticularly with a pole, but  please
                        don't tell cousin Jane about thatand I know how to graft trees and put bandages on when
                        anybody gets hurt; but Roger dear, I don't know a note of my music, and I
                        can't embroider to save my life, and I have to get my maid to do even my plain sewing,
                        and worst of all I forget to answer my letters! I tell you I ought to have been a boy! They
                        don't expect anything from a boy except to be healthy and polite to women and tell the
                        truth, and fight. I could do all that. I've got my
                        pistols in my saddle holsters now, for that matter, and even cousin Jane says that in these
                        troubled times, if young women will persist in riding about without an escort, they ought to
                        have weapons of defence. And then she adds, 'but how a well bred woman could ever shoot
                        a pistol, even at a man I simply cannot imagine.'"
                    After a pause, Jacqueline resumed in a soberer tone.
                    "I'm going to cry a little now Roger, just for joy at your
                        home-coming. I've tried to talk it off, but I can't," and with that
                        she opened the flood gates. It was only for half a minute however. Then she took
                        Roger's hand tenderly in her own and said:
                    I've ordered your supper in my rooms, brother, and we'll take the
                        meal together. I  'cut' supper
                        to-night just so that we might take this first home meal with each other. I knew you'd
                        be here this evening, and ever since tea time I've been riding back and forth here in
                        the avenue, waiting for you. I was determined that nobody, not even a hostler or a stable boy
                        should be before me in greeting you with a welcome."
                    "That was very loving and sisterly in you, Jack, dear, and my home coming is
                        the happier because of it. But how is our father?" for he would not ask how the father
                        regarded his disobedience.
                    "He's better now than for a month past," replied the girl
                        with great tenderness in her voice. "Poor dear father, how he does suffer sometimes!
                        And how bravely and cheerfully he bears it all! Roger, do you know I think him the bravest,
                        noblest man in all the world? Anybody can face danger with a calm front if he makes up his mind
                        to do it. Pride helps mightily in that. But only the very greatest heroes can endure agonizing
                        pain as father does, without ever a murmur. Father never utters a complaint. Better still, he
                        never pities himself, and I read in a wise old book once, that 'self pity is the worst
                        and yet the most universal of human weaknesses.' Even when  father is suffering so terrify that I know it is agony for him merely to
                        exist, he never utters a harsh word to a blundering servant whose awkwardness gives him pain.
                            I do all that for him afterwards, when he isn't by
                        to hear, and little by little I've so arranged it that none but the cleverest,
                        gentlest, and deftest handed of the servants ever goes into his presence."
                    "Good girl! good girl!" responded Roger. "That's
                        better than music or French, though I'm going to teach you Frenchnot out of a book, but
                        out of my mouth and through your earbut tell me, Jack, will not my father be with us at
                        supper?"
                    "No, dear, he cannot. He is entertaining some gentlemen to-night, great men,
                        some of them ever so great, and you know how scrupulous he is in matters of hospitality. Of
                        course he would come to greet you on your arrival, if he were informed of it, but I have charged
                        the servants not to tell him. So we'll ride up to a side entrance, you will go to your
                        rooms and put on your bestpoor boy, you can't have much in your valise and saddle bags,
                        but I've ordered a tailor to come early to-morrowthen we'll have supper, and
                        after that you shall descend to the parlor and meet father there, surrounded as he should be, by
                        the greatest men in  the state, all of whom have come
                        to Alton House to ask his counsel."
                    At that moment Alton House, a blaze of light, broke into view. It was a stately
                        mansion built in the best architectural manner of a century before. Standing in a ten-acre grove
                        of sky-scraping forest pines, it rose only to the height of two stories, with high pitched red
                        tile covered roofs giving opportunity for spacious attics above the sleeping rooms. It was
                        solidly built of English brick, with walls more than two feet in thickness to the eaves, whence
                        extended a broad, almost flat, piazza roof covering at once the balconies of the second floor
                        and the piazza, beneath, full thirty feet wide, the whole carrying with it suggested memories of
                        greetings between gallant lovers below and maiden mistresses in the balconies above. It is true,
                        as Longfellow has written, that "All houses wherein men have lived and died are haunted
                        houses"haunted by memories of human life, of human joy and suffering, and, better than
                        all, of human and humanizing love. Old family dwellings are not mere piles of bricks and mortar
                        and beams without, and exhibition galleries of decorative art within, as is the rich
                        speculator's new place; they are human homes ivy-grown  with memories, moss-covered with traditions. So it was with Alton House.
                        Built in the very earliest days of Carolina settlement, it had been for generations not only the
                        home of a distinguished and cultivated family, but the seat of a hospitality princely in its
                        lavishness, and very loving in its inspiration. The old house had been the scene of many a
                        revel, and better still of many a gentle love-making. It had sent out its sons to war, or to the
                        cares of state, or to other strenuous endeavor, and its daughters to become the honored heads of
                        other stately homes, the wives of gallant gentlemen, the mothers of sons deserving of all the
                        honors that life could bring to them. So large had been the part played in Carolina by the men
                        and women of the Alton race, and so mingled had their blood become with that of other Carolinian
                        families of repute, that it had grown into a familiar saying that "It is only going
                        home when one goes to Alton House."
                    It was a mansion of generous proportions. Its great rooms were oak wainscotted to the
                        ceiling, and wholly unspotted with paint. Its floors of long-leaf yellow pine had grown
                        glass-like under the daily polishing of generations. Its heavy mahogany furniture was built with
                        a solidity in keeping with the sturdy walls that 
                        enclosed it, and it had grown nearly black with age and jealous waxing.
                    The glory of the house was its great hallway, with its two broad fireplaces and the
                        noble staircase with its midway landing so broad that minuets had been danced upon it as a
                        pretty spectacle for those below to contemplate. In the drawing room there were wax candles in
                        sconces, and a great central oil lamp of many branching burners, but in the hall as in the
                        dining-room the illumination was by flaring, fatwood torches, held in place by great wrought
                        iron sockets with swinging spark receivers below, and ebony young negroes to attend them. The
                        dining room extended to the roof with heavy carved timbers for its upper structure, and a
                        multitude of old portraits hung between and below the torch holders. These represented many
                        generations of Altons, at all ages from childhood onward, and many of them had been brought from
                        England by the pioneer Alton who had come out as a person of title and rank and high authority
                        under the absurd constitutions of Clarendon which John Locke wrought out for the government of a
                        wilderness concerning the conditions of which his ignorance was almost picturesquely phenomenal.
                        That was more than a hundred years before the time 
                        we are now considering and with each succeeding generation of Altons new honors had come to the
                        family name, honors of war, of peace, of scholarship and of high endeavor in every
                    undertaking.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    JACK
                    "HOW big and strong and handsome you are!" was
                        Jacqueline's greeting to her brother when he entered her rooms for the promised t$eCte-$aG-t$eCte supper. The young man had donned his brass
                        buttoned blue coat, whose white satin lining was a trifle the worse for wear, a pair of close
                        fitting knee breeches, long stockings, low shoes with silver buckles, and a cambric shirt
                        ruffled at the bosom and wrists. Disdaining the dandyism of eel-skin forelocks, he had parted
                        his hair in the middlefor the fashion of side parting had not yet come into vogue among
                        gentlemenand brushed it back simply over his ears, tying it at the back of his neck with a bit
                        of ribbon.
                    "You're superb, Roger, and you'll make a splendid
                        soldier!"
                    "I hope so, dear," he replied; "but when your tailor comes
                        to-morrow, he must subdue  his ideas sufficiently to
                        dress me as a soldier and not in fine gentleman's togs like these. I have a mind for
                        thick blue jeans, and stout leather boots. Perhaps you won't like my appearance so well
                        when I get myself up as a real soldier."
                    "Oh yes I will. Mr. Snip, or whatever his name is, can't trim off
                        your great legs or shorten your arms or do anything else to mar your superb physical
                        proportions, and if he doesn't make your new garments fit you properly, I'll
                        awaken his conscience to a degree that will astonish him. You don't know how I can
                        criticise and scold about clothes, Roger. I've had seven years' practice on my
                        seamstresses since you went away, and of course I'm not afraid of a tailor."
                    "The exercise of your talents in that direction has certainly not been in
                        vain," said Roger, taking her by the elbows and holding her at arm's length,
                        the better to contemplate the costume she had assumed while he had been dressing. "You
                        are a work of art, Jack, and all the better because your gown is two years behind the fashion. I
                        saw just such gowns in London two years ago, but never so charming a woman in one of
                        them."
                    "Is it truth you speak, Roger?" asked the girl with a note of real
                        anxiety in her voice.
                    
                    "My name is Alton, Jack, I never tell lies, even to please a
                        Woman."
                    "But you've seen countesses, Roger, in all their glory!"
                    "Yes, and duchesses, too, and some of them are very {at and coarse and their
                        gowns often look as if they were made for somebody else, with a shape quite other than their
                        own. Remember, Jack, that you're a little republican, entitled to hold your head as
                        high as any duchess or princess in the world. There are no women in England to compare with our
                        Carolina maids and matrons, in beauty, intelligence or the charm of high breeding. You, oror any
                        Carolina girl of your class "Roger meant Helen Vargave of course but he didn't
                        say so"need yield no hair's breadth to the charms of any woman in all
                        England."
                    "Then you haven't come home in love, Roger? I'm gladder
                        than I can tell you."
                    Roger blushed crimson, and Jack's eyes were quick to discern such signal
                        flags.
                    "Who is she, and what is she like, Roger?" she asked quickly.
                        "Tell me all about her." There was an almost pained eagerness in the
                        girl's voice, and a saddened look in her eyes as she conjured up visions of some coming
                        sister-in-law whom she was predetermined to detest, 
                        but who, she foresaw, would have the right as well as the power to divide Roger's
                        affection and take to herself the greater share. She imagined some English bride coming to Alton
                        House to rule there in her stead, and bringing with her great trunkfuls of gowns two years later
                        in style than her own. The little woman was instantly and almost insanely jealous. So it was in
                        a hard, metallic voice that she repeated her demand" Tell me all about her I "
                    Roger, being a man, was clumsy in his perceptions, as women reckon such things, yet
                        he perceived enough of what was in his sister's thought to aumse him, and he had a mind
                        to tease her a little.
                    "Well, she's about your size, Jack,or perhaps in inch or so taller,
                        and she knows how to ride-"
                    "Don't trifle, Roger, tell me," broke in the girl, with
                        hardness still in her tone. "When is she coming here to turn me out of Alton
                        House?"
                    "Never, dear, never," said the young man, at last realizing how
                        much of suffering his sister was enduring. "Helen Vargave will never wish, even as my
                        wife, to replace you here until you abdicate of your own free will to assume the high position
                        of wife to some  man worthy of you and mistress of
                        some mansion that shall be even more your own than Alton House has been for all these
                        years."
                    The girl threw herself into her brother's arms, in a torrent of glad tears.
                    "Oh, Roger! wily didn't you say it was just Helen? I thought, oh,
                        such horrible things! Oh, Roger, Roger, Roger! I am so happy! "
                    Just then a servant bearing the supper entered, and Jacqueline dried her tears. As
                        they sat at meat she said:
                    "When did it all happen, Roger? Why don't you begin at the
                        beginning and tell me all about it? A man is so
                        provoking."
                    "But, dear, how can I 'tell you all about it? '
                        Don't you think that that is Helen's privilege? "
                    "Yes, of course, but I don't like to wait. When is it to be, Roger?
                        "
                    "I don't know, Jack. Mrs. Vargave seems to think it can never be at
                        all."
                    "Never can be? But why not? Of all marriages that could be suggested none
                        could be fitter. What do you mean, Roger? "
                    "I don't know what I mean, Jack. But when I spoke of this to
                        Helen's mother she seemed distressed, and she suggested that our father might not
                        approve. I thought at first that it  was only her way
                        of manifesting proper reserve, but it wasn't that, Jack, as I soon learned. She really
                        expects father to object, though why, I cannot conjecture."
                    "Roger!" said Jack, after a pause, "I believe Mrs. Vargave
                        is right. She isn't a woman to imagine things. She knows somethingI can't
                        imagine whatbut she knows something or she simply could not have suggested an objection on
                        father's part. I wonder what it can be?"
                    Roger did not answer. He was wondering also. Presently Jack laid down the spoon with
                        which she was taking some fruit, and looking up with intense earnestness, said:
                    "Of course, you'll marry her anyhow, Roger? "
                    "I'll marry her or nobody, and she alone can make it
                        nobody."
                    "That's right, brother! That's the soldier in youin other
                        words it's the manhood. There can be no earthly reason why you shouldn't marry
                        Helen. She is the noblest, worthiest, dearest girl in the world. She's the only woman
                        alive that I would welcome here as mistress and make into a real sister. If father makes an
                        objectionwell, I won't believe it. But, anyhow, if you are half the man I take my  brother to be, you will marry the woman you love if
                        all the demons stand in the way. Roger promise me!"
                    "I have already said it, Jack."
                    "But say it again! say it again! I simply will not have this tiring left in
                        doubt."
                    "It is in no doubt, Jack, dear. I say it again to please yon, though there
                        is no necessity. I not only say it, but I swear on my honor that I will marry Helen Vargave or I
                        will marry no one so long as I live, and I swear that nobody's objection except her own
                        shall ever stand in my way."
                    After a minute he added:
                    "Don't let's indulge in heroics, Jack. No one is going to
                        interfere with an arrangement so eminently right and fit. Father will feel it the proudest
                        moment of his life when he asks Mrs. Vargave for Helen's hand as the wife of his only
                        son. He will welcome her as a daughter as eagerly as you will greet her as your sister. So
                        let's dismiss the matter as settled. And let's go now to the
                        drawing-room."
                    "Not till your arrival is announced, brother, dear. You know
                        father's sensitiveness as to formalities. Most people are laying them aside in these
                        revolutionary days, but that only makes  father the
                        more insistent upon them. 'Imagine anybody slapping General Washington on the
                        back,' he said one day. I'll summon a servant to announce you."
                    "Let it be Mar/borough then," said Roger. "You've
                        trained him superbly, Jack."
                    "That's what I had planned. He's waiting at the foot of
                        the stairs." Then going to the door she called the man and he quickly responded. He had
                        meantime changed his attire to that of a footman, with a velvet coat and a sunburst of ruffled
                        shirt front which blazed all the whiter for the contrast with the polished ebony of his face. He
                        stood full six feet high, with broad chest and brawny limbs, a man as proud of his service as
                        any soldier in his uniform ever was. He did not feel himself a slave. He was a stalwart, duty
                        loving, self-respecting manproud of his faithfulness to his clan, devoted to the house to which
                        he belonged, and quite ready to prove himself worthy of its traditions by any deed of humble
                        service or gallant derring-do that fortune, good or bad, might assign to him as his portion.
                    With head erect and shoulders thrown back, and with his grammar well in hand, he
                        preceded the brother and sister down the stairs and across the hall. Then, standing in the
                        drawing-room  door he announced his guests in a
                        formula of his own devising which he had spent an hour in shaping to his fancy:
                    "Master, and gentlemen!" he called, "I have the honor of
                        announcing the approach of my mistress, Miss Alton, and of her brother, Colonel Roger Alton,
                        just returned from England."
                    When asked afterwards why he had bestowed the title of Colonel upon Roger,
                        Marlborough was ready with the reply:
                    "Why, Mis' Jacqueline, he's big', he's
                        strong', he knows how to carry himself, and he's the next heir to Alton House.
                        Doesn't that make him a Colonel? "
                
                
                
                    X
                    MEN in COUNCIL
                    UPON entering the great drawing-room, Roger's first care was to present
                        himself to his father, who sat in a large cushioned armchair, with a bandaged foot resting upon
                        a stool in front and with unmistakable lines of pain in his countenance.
                    "Welcome, my son," was the father's greeting.
                        "Welcome and congratulations. You have grown into a sturdy manhood and are more than
                        fit to take up the task of representing our race in the difficult struggle that lies before
                        us."
                    "Then you do not condemn me, father, for doing my duty without waiting for
                        your permission? "
                    "I expected no less than that at your hands. When you came to man's
                        estate I was sure you would do your man's part. It was not for me to command or even to
                        suggest. I wondered how you would manage to get here, but I had at no time any doubt that you
                        would come."
                    
                    "You make me very happy, father, by your approval. My only regret is that I
                        find you suffering so severely."
                    "It's a trifle, boy, except that it makes me worthless when
                        Carolina most needs me. But enough of that; we have guests, to whom I wish to present
                        you." Then turning to the gentlemen who had finished their obeisances to Jacqueline, he
                        said:
                    "Gentlemen, I beg to present to you my son, Roger, who has just come home,
                        as you have already beard, to take up such duty to the country as may fall to our house.
                        Jacqueline, dear, will you introduce your brother to the gentlemen individually?"
                    The company was indeed a distinguished one, as Jacqueline had said. First of all was
                        John Rutledge, by universal consent, then and afterwards, the foremost Carolinian alive.
                        Scarcely forty years of age, he had already had a career of distinguished public service, and u,
                        as destined to be the inspiring genius of that unconquerable resistance to superior force, which
                        kept the revolution alive in Carolina throughout all the dark days during which the state was
                        overrun by Cornwallis's merciless hordes, scourged by the faith-breaking, treacherous
                        cutthroat Tarleton and his legion of  drilled and
                        disciplined savages,*
                        
                            *
                            If this characterization of Tarleton and his men seems extravagant to any
                                reader. I commend him to a study of the simple facts of history. Mastery of them cannot
                                leave in any honest mind other impression than that even the blackness of British
                                conquest has never produced a leader so brutal, so treacherous, so utterly regardless of
                                the scant amenities of war as Lieutenant-Colonel Bannistre Tarleton, whose betrayals of
                                truces. whose massacres of surrendered men, whose refusal of quarter to enemies
                                overcome, made his name a by-word in the Carolinas and a stench in the nostrils of all
                                brave soldiers in every quarter of the world. There is no blacker page in all history,
                                savage or civilized, than that which records the infamy of this royally commissioned
                                assassin.Author.
                         and subjected to the torch of tory incendiaries.
                    Rutledge was a man born to patriotic service and wonderfully gifted in rendering it.
                        He was a mere youth of twenty-six when Carolina sent him, at his own expense, as her
                        representative in the Stamp Act Congress of 1765, at New York. At thirty-five he was a member of
                        the South Carolina Convention and a delegate to the Continental Congress at Philadelphia. After
                        two years more of continuous public service he was made chairman of the committee that prepared
                        South Carolina's first constitution as an independent state, and upon the adoption of
                        that constitution he was chosen to be first president of the new government. It  was be who overbore the counsels of Gen. Charles Lee
                        and ordered and mightily aided the defence instead of the surrender of Fort Moultrie, with a
                        result that is still reckoned among the famous feats of American arms. And now, at barely forty
                        years of age, in view of the most threatening situation that Carolina had ever known, he had
                        been chosen by unanimous consent to he, for the second time, governor of the state, and the
                        legislature had clothed him with almost dictatorial powers, which it afterward made absolute as
                        a measure of commanding necessity to the public safety.
                    John Rutledge was thus for years the autocrat of South Carolina, made so for her
                        salvation, by the universal voice of his countrymen. Not even the confidence of Congress in
                        Washington, was more implicit than was that of the Carolinians in John Rutledge. Nor was the one
                        confidence better deserved or more honored in its outcome than the other.
                    Gov. Rutledge was a man of large frame, great muscularity and perfect physical
                        health. His energy was inexhaustible, his wits keen, his intellect almost preternaturally
                        active, and his courage absolutely dauntless. He talked rapidly and with force. He thought
                        clearly and he had full confidence in the soundness of his  thinking, as had been shown when he sent Moultrie 500 pounds of powder and
                        ordered him not to evacuate the fort under his command in obedience to the commanding
                        general's orders, but to hold it till he, Rutledge, should give orders for its
                        abandonmenta course that resulted not only in a notable victory but also in the holding of the
                        Carolinas during years when their conquest would have been, perhaps, the death knell of
                        Washington's difficult defence at the north, anti with it, in all probability, the
                        inglorious end of the struggle for American independence.
                    But strong-willed, courageous and self-reliant as Rutledge was, he was wise enough to
                        seek counsel wherever judicious counsel was to be found. Hence his presence at Alton House. For,
                        physically unfit for service as Col. Geoffrey Alton was by reason of his advancing age, his
                        gout, and, more than all, his wounds received in the Indian wars, Gov. Rutledge knew and trusted
                        Col. Alton's wisdom as a soldier and a statesman, and was eager, under his new and
                        fearful load of responsibility, to consult with one so wise, so devoted, and so largely
                        experienced.
                    He had come to Alton House upon this mission, and he had summoned to meet him there
                             some others to whom he looked for active aid in
                        his difficult task of Carolina's defence.
                    Among these was Francis Marion, a man of few words, but mighty in action and already
                        distinguished in war and in statesmanship. Roger saw in him a man stockily built, with legs much
                        too short for his body and suggesting anything but the cavalier that he afterwards became, with
                        a badly formed, aquiline nose, but with a resolutely closed mouth, muscles of obtrusive
                        development, and eyes that might melt into tenderness in converse with a woman, or flame into
                        danger signals in conflict with an enemy.
                    Marion was still several years short of his half century of age. Yet he seemed a man
                        accustomed to command, and, better still, to the cheerful assumption of responsibility. As he
                        looked the silent man in the eyes, Roger remembered that he had been a private soldier at
                        twenty-seven, in the Cherokee wars; that for three years he had rendered notable service in that
                        humble capacity; that in the battle of Etchoee he had volunteered to lead a forlorn hope in an
                        enterprise so desperate that scarcely any one of the party but himself survived the assault;
                        that after service in the provincial congress, he had been made a captain under Moultrie;  that he had been a leader in the force that captured
                        the British fort Johnson and turned its guns upon the enemy's ships in the harbor with
                        such destructive effect as to drive every one of them out to the inhospitable sea; that one
                        after another, important fortresses had been placed under his command; and that when a powerful
                        fleet had assailed the half-finished fort on Sullivan's Island, it was this man Marion
                        whom Moultrie summoned to aid him in that celebrated defence in which he utterly defeated an
                        enemy superior in every resource and every appliance of war. Marion was now in supreme command
                        of Charles Town's chief defensive work, Fort Moultrie, and Rutledge held him in esteem
                        as the man of all others upon whose fortitude and discretion and whose "vast and varied
                        fighting capacity." to use his own words, he could confidently rely.
                    There was young Horry present also, a man yet unknown to fame. but destined later to
                        win great renown in partisan war, for his daring and his singular command of men. He was a very
                        bad horseman, and to the end he never learned to ride, yet be chose the career of a cavalier as
                        his own, and, in spite of many tumbles from the saddle in action, made his name famous as a
                        rough rider.
                    
                    In like manner, Marion, who could not swim, always avoided bridges and by forcing his
                        horses to swim rivers, accomplished many surprises that would otherwise have been impracticable.
                    There were others ill that company, too, but Rutledge was the soul of it. Full of
                        energy to overflowing, inspired by an enthusiasm that was irresistibly contagious, and possessed
                        of conversational gifts of the rarest attractiveness an inheritance from his Irish ancestryhe
                        talked much and so effectively as to draw from each of his hearers all that was best and most
                        suggestive in his mind.
                    "Lincon cannot long hold the British in Georgia," he explained.
                        "He is a brilliant commander and a tireless one, but his army is utterly inadequate to
                        the task that has been set for it.
                    "Prevost is constantly growing stronger by reinforcements from Florida, and
                        I look presently to see heavy battalions brought to his assistance from the north. Within a
                        month or two at most, he will overrun our low country, and knock at the gates of Charles Town.
                        We shall do our best to beat him off, and I think we shall succeed, for Charles Town is
                        admirably situated for defence, and I shall use the extraordinary  powers entrusted to me, to put all the available men in the state into
                        service; but sooner or later, in all probability this British assault upon the south will
                        succeed. Charles Town will fall as Savannah has already done. But we must not let that
                        discourage us. We must remember that our enemy has been master of Bostonbefore Washington drove
                        him outof New York, which he still holds, of Philadelphia which he has been forced to evacuate,
                        of the Jerseys till Washington made that country a British and Hessian graveyard, and of pretty
                        nearly every other point of strategic importance at the north, and yet to-day he is no stronger
                        there than when the war began. He is weaker in fact. Burgoyne's magnificently planned
                        campaign for conquering the Hudson river country and cutting New England off from the rest of
                        the republic, ended in the surrender of the finest army that our enemy has ever been able to
                        lint into the field against us. After four years of war the north is as completely unconquered
                        now as it was when the war began. The enemy is shut up in garrison towns, and he turns now to
                        the south in the hope of finding here an easier task. In Virginia all his campaigns have
                        achieved nothing more important than the robbery of some henroosts  and pigpens and the burning of a few barns. Here at the south we have yet to
                        see what he can do to repair his former failures at Charles Town; but he has taken Savannah as a
                        secure base of operations and now that his efforts are manifestly to be concentrated here, he
                        will probably take all our cities just as he has done at the north. It is for us to make their
                        capture as costly as possible to him, and when they are captured, to teach him, as Washington
                        and Greene and Stark and Gates have taught him at the north, that the war goes on without regard
                        to what they call strategic positions. In a country like ours there are no strategic positions,
                        or none at any rate the control of which can render an enemy our master, if we are brave and
                        resolute. Dogged determination means more for us than regiments and batteries."
                    "Your idea then is that we can keep up the war no matter how completely the
                        coigns of vantage may be in the enemy's hands, and no matter how great an army he may
                        bring against us?" said young Horry.
                    "Precisely. We can calculate how many British troops it will require to
                        capture and to hold Charles Town. and Camden and the rest. But who can reckon how many it will
                        take to  conquer the woods and swamps that lie
                        between? These, and not the cities, are our strongholds. If we are brave and determined and
                        active, the capture of our cities and towns will mark only the beginning of war, and just as the
                        enemy imagines bis task done be will find out that its difficulties are only beginning. Mr.
                        Alton, the younger, is fresh from Oxford and well up in his classics. He doubtless remembers the
                        storyI forget the names and the detailsof that old backwoods King who had a little talk with the
                        Romans when they imagined that they had conquered his country and were ready to receive his
                        submission. ' Bring hither a dried bull's hide,' he said to his
                        attendants. When the bide came he ordered one of his men to stand on a certain spot. '
                        There! ' he cried. ' That spot is down. Now stood on this other one where the
                        hide is well up from the ground. Now that is down, but you observe that the other one popped up
                        again as soon as the fellow stepped off it to hold this new place down. So it will be with my
                        dominions. You may trample any part of them to the earth, but the moment you withdraw from the
                        conquered part to repress some other, the first will spring up again as high as ever. If you
                        expect to hold us in subjection you must bring  men
                        enough to cover the whole bull's hide at once, and you haven't got men enough
                        for that.' That old Dutchman's lesson is the one we've got to teach
                        the British. We'll defend Charles Town as long as we can. We'll meet armies
                        with armies whenever it is possible to do so. And when that ceases to be possible we'll
                        begin the war in earnest, making every tree a picket post, every woodpile a masked battery,
                        every swamp a fortress and a seat of incessant offence."
                    "But what of the tories, Governor Rutledge?" asked Roger.
                    "Yes, I hear that you have already encountered one of them. I congratulate
                        you. Such young men as you may be trusted to keep them ill awe until the British swarm over the
                        country. Then they will be troublesome, of course. But at any rate they must then declare
                        themselves, and we shall know how to deal with them. If they turn out to fight us as soldiers,
                        we shall meet them and treat them as such. If they skulk and hide and stab us in the back, and
                        set fire to our barns, why we'll simply hang them; is fast as we can catch them.
                        Fortunately we have the means of putting them to the proof. Whenever the British make a serious
                        advance into South Carolina. I shall order out the entire  body of the militia under the authority conferred upon me for this emergency.
                        Confiscation of property, personal arrest and yawning jails await those who refuse to respond,
                        while acts of treasonwell, you know death by hanging is, all the world over, the punishment for
                        such crimes. At present we do not know who is a friend or who an enemy; who a patriot and who a
                        traitor to his native land. But when the call comes for men to meet an invading enemy we shall
                        know. Then every man must take one side or the other, or fall into the worst sort of
                        difficulties between the lines."
                    "It seems to me a special pity," said Col. Alton, in his grave,
                        deliberate way, "that we cannot organize the militia now, in advance of the need of
                        embodying it. In my small experience I have observed that the greatest source of danger in
                        confronting an enemy with raw levies is the lack of a habit on the part of the men, of waiting
                        for orders and obeying them, when they are given. More properly, perhaps, I should say that
                        militiamen, hastily embodied, are too much disposed to take orders from persons not entitled to
                        issue them, and all for lack of the soldierly habit. The men are individually brave, but
                        collectively they are apt to run away if any timid one among them sets the  example. Have you not observed that, Col. Marion?"
                    "Often," answered the silent man, and he added not another word to
                        his answer.
                    "But what remedy is available?" asked Rutledge, who was always on
                        the alert, for helpful suggestions. "You know our militia cannot be brought into camps
                        or kept there when no enemy threatens. They feel the necessity of being at home to cultivate and
                        harvest their crops, when not needed hi actual service, and in spite of all laws and orders to
                        the contrary they quit camp and go home the moment the enemy retires or settles himself into
                        inactivity. I know a Scotch Irish Presbyterian preacher up in the mountains who once said to
                        me'I can put every man and boy in my congregation into the field whenever I suspend
                        services to tell them that the British are coming; but I can't keep a manjack of them
                        there for a single day after the menace has passed away. They are ready enough to shoot and he
                        shot, but their instinct of industry revolts against the idleness of camp life, and their love
                        of home is a passion.' I think the preacher was right," continued the
                        governor. "and a Catholic priest in Georgetown said much the same thing to me, wittily
                        adding 'my lads are always ready to  fight
                        soldiers for liberty but they don't want to fight windmills for her. A battle, they
                        understand; but a sham battle seems to them foolishness.' "
                    "How would it do," suggested Roger with much diffidence,
                        "to institute very small and compact local organizations of militia, not as militia,
                        but as patriots organizing and drilling themselves in order that their service may he the more
                        effective when the need of it arises? "
                    "Would you mind explaining your idea a little more fully?" asked
                        Rutledge. "It impresses me as one that may be worth trying."
                    "Well," said Roger, with some hesitation, "my idea is
                        simply the outcome of the thinking I have done concerning my own service. I could remain simply
                        a militiaman, subject to your call, Governor, but it has seemed to me that I might render a much
                        greater service ly gathering together the overseers on the Alton plantations and their boys, and
                        the carpenters and wheelwrights and blacksmiths in the neighborhood, and the best of the
                        negroes, and organizing and drilling them for service. Then there would be a little company here
                        as compact and as well accustomed to obey orders as any that a camp of instruction could turn
                        out. If somebody in every neighborhood were encouraged  to do the same thing, it has seemed to me that we might make your militia, Gov. Rutledge, as
                        effective in a little while, as the Continentals themselves. Only it would be necessary to make
                        the service of these volunteers a matter of obligation, after they had once enlisted in it, and
                        to clothe their commanders with adequate authority. I suppose that would require some sort of
                        legislation."
                    "I think not," answered Marion. "The powers entrusted to
                        Gov. Rutledge might enable him to dispense with a statute."
                    "You are right, Col. Marion. I have ample authority to authorize this sort
                        of organization wherever it is practicable, and to commission commanders for the purpose. But
                        unhappily we have few men anywhere disposed to undertake such a task, as Mr. Roger Alton islet
                        me say Captain Roger Alton rather, as I purpose on my return to Charles Town, to issue to you,
                        Mr. Alton, a commission as captain for the carrying out of your idea. Your commission will date
                        from to-day, and you may begin your work of organization as soon as you please. Your
                        requisitions for uniforms, arms, ammunition and all the rest of it, will be honored at Charles
                        Town, Captain."
                    "Pardon me, Governor, will you not add one  privilege to your generous gifts? Will you not let me carry out my full
                        purpose, which is to uniform, arm, equip and maintain my little company at my own expense? My
                        good sister here," turning to Jacqueline and lovingly taking her hand, "has so
                        wisely administered my inheritance in my absence, that I have money sufficient for this purpose,
                        while, before our liberties are secured, the state is likely to be sore beset to meet the
                        demands upon its treasury. Will you not let me make the maintenance of my little local company a
                        personal charge upon my own resources?"
                    Gov. Rutledge rose from his chair and grasped the young man's hand. He was
                        almost in tears, so intensely did he feel in every matter that concerned his stupendous task of
                        defence. He looked Roger in the eyes for a moment, and then said. "God bless you,
                        boy!"
                    Then he turned to Jacqueline and almost stared at her. Presently he said"
                        and it is you, my dear young lady, that have made this possible!" Then he leaned
                        forward and kissed her reverently on the forehead.
                    "In the name of South Carolina and of the United States of
                        America," he said, "in the name of human liberty, girl, I lovingly salute
                        you!"
                    
                    The Irish blood in his veins had mastered him, but Jacqueline was equal to the
                        occasion.
                    "I salute Carolina!" she cried, with head thrown back and eyes
                        ablaze, "I salute the United States! I salute liberty! Am I not their daughter? To you
                        strong men it is given to dare and to do! To us weak women it is given only to inspire.
                        Gentlemen, I bid you good-night, and I say to you, for all the women of Carolinawe love you
                        because you are strong and brave and true, we honor you because you are patriots. Good night,
                        good gentlemen!"
                    As she ended her speech she made a low courtesy in the doorway, and an instant later
                        she had gone.
                    "Men and brethren!" exclaimed young Horry, "there spoke
                        our noble womankind. They love liberty with a passion greater than any of which we are capable.
                        If we are men half worthy of them we shall all be in well-earned graves before their hope for
                        their native land is disappointed." Then seizing the decanter, he poured bumpers of
                        Madeira for all. present, and offered the toast
                    "The women of Carolinato them we pledge ourselves for Independence, if it be
                        in human power to achieve it, and if not, then for 
                        honorable death to ourselves, and graves fit for the watering of their tears!"
                    Does it all sound overwrought and hysterical, oh, safely-housed reader of to-day, to
                        whom the nationality that such men, inspired by such women, won for you, is a commonplace?
                        Remember for what stakes they played! Remember how tremendous the issue was! Remember how much
                        you owe to the fact that they were hot-blooded men and women, capable of high enthusiasms and of
                        such self-sacrifice as our more calculating generation, to its sore discredit, scorns as
                        romantic and absurd! And read history a little for the enlightenment of your mind and the
                        illumination of your soul! Learn from human records how great a force enthusiasm is, how large a
                        part romance has played in working out humanity's most vital problems! Learn to love
                        and admire, where now you coldly criticise in self-sufficient scorn. Try to understand what
                        stuff heroes and heroines are made of, and how much worthier that stuff is than all the virtues
                        of our commercial age can ever be!
                
                
                
                    XI
                    A love and life PERPLEXITY
                    WHEN young Barnegal, at Torrance's Tavern announced his purpose of riding
                        half way to Alton House with Roger, he had another reason for the intention besides his desire
                        to be for a time in company with his old schoolfellow. On the way he confided that reason to his
                        companion.
                    "You know, Roger," he said, "how fond I was of Jacqueline
                        and she of me when she and you and I were playmates at Alton House. You remember how, when you
                        and I fell under the displeasure of our tutor, she always came to the rescue either by wheedling
                        or by terrifying the old fellowfor the little maid was quite equal to either undertaking with
                        her winning ways and her capacity for haughty imperiousness. Well, it was a sort of brother love
                        I felt for her then. But as we both grew older it ripened into a much deeper passion, and now
                             Jacqueline has consented to be my affianced
                        bride as soon as the necessary formalities between the two families have been
                        fulfilled."
                    Roger reined in his horse and grasped his companion's hand.
                    "I am so glad, old fellow, so glad! No more joyous news could come to me
                        than this, to greet me on my return. But why not complete the formalities at once? Why not ride
                        with me to Alton House to-day, and ask my father for the consent that he will be more than ready
                        to give?"
                    "You forget my uncle," answered Barnegal.
                    "Oh, Tiger Bill? But you wrote me in England that you and he were no longer
                        on termsthat you had parted finally after a great quarrel. Have you since become
                        reconciled?"
                    "Not in the least. When I came of age two years ago my uncle sent for me and
                        closed the guardianship he had so long exercised, by turning over to me the estate left me by my
                        father, and almost flinging in my face the documents that testified to the scrupulous fidelity
                        to every legal requirement with which he had discharged the trust. I felt a little tenderly
                        toward the lonely old man, and sought to make the parting pleasant; but he would not have it so.
                        When I spoke of the fidelity of his guardianship  and
                        thanked him for it he fell into a rage, shook his clenched fists at me and answered:
                        'So you expected it to be otherwise did you? You thought me a thief who had been
                        robbing you all these years, and now that you can pick no flaw in my accounts you are surprised
                        to find that I have stolen nothing, and you impudently tell me so to my face!' It was
                        useless to protest that my words bore no such meaning. He was in one of his savage tempers when
                        to have said anything, even in kindness, would only have excited him further. He was an old or
                        at least an elderly man and my nearest, indeed, my only kinsman, so far as I know, on earth. I
                        could not quarrel with him, so I turned on my heel and left him. Since then we have held no
                        communication; but to-day, when we reach the entrance to his plantation, I am going to him to
                        demand that, as the head of our family, he shall ask your father for Jacqueline's hand
                        for me."
                    "You are an idiot, Charlie!" exclaimed Roger, lapsing into the
                        familiarity of boyhood. "You know your uncle will refuse."
                    "Of course he will. If I proposed that he should ask for the hand of some
                        woman who would make life a torture to me he would do it  with a positively insane joy. But when I suggest Jacqueline to him he will
                        fly into a rage and probably order me out of his house."
                    "Then why in the name of common sense do you go to him at all?"
                    "Because I must. Jacqueline herself demands it. I proposed to ignore my
                        uncle altogether, and go to your father as myself the head of my own branch of the family. But
                        she vetoed that at once. 'Your uncle is a very unlovely and unreasonable
                        person,' she said, 'and I understand that for some reason which you know
                        nothing about, he chooses to hate you with extraordinary malice. But he is still the head of the
                        Barnegal house, and while he lives, I cannot marry you without his consent. It may break my
                        heart, and yours too, worse luck, but as a daughter of Alton House I will never enter any family
                        against the will of its head.' So you see, Roger, I must go to my uncle"
                    "I don't see anything of the kind. By his evil temper your uncle
                        has made himself an Ishmael in Carolina. And you remember that Ishmael was not recognized as the
                        head of his father's tribe. Your uncle has completely forfeited all claim to
                        recognition. It is society that assigns to a man the honor and authority of  family headship, and your uncle has affronted and contemned society.
                        What right has he to claim rights and privileges at its hands? No, Charlie, you owe him no
                        deference, and as for Jacqueline, I'll teach her the difference between a
                        women's proper pride, and a nonsensical sacrifice of her life and yours upon a whim
                        like this. Come along with me to Alton House, and see how quickly I shall set things
                        right."
                    "I must first fulfil her commands, Roger. After thatafter my uncle shall
                        have turned me out of his house, perhaps with insults for which I cannot call him to account as
                        I should were he any other man in the worldafter all that is ended, I will consider what is to
                        be done."
                    "Very well. But promise me one thing. Promise me that you will at any rate
                        come to Alton House within the week, and before you do anything or accept anything as finally
                        determined!"
                    "I promise that. I am too eager to let a man who hates me with unspeakable
                        malice work ruin to my life. After I shall have honored him with a deference that he does not
                        deserve, I will go at once homefor I haven't so much as an extra pocket handkerchief
                        with me nowand within a very few days I will  journey
                        to Alton House. There I will go to your father and claim the right to regard myself as the head
                        of my own family, entitled to ask him for his daughter's hand. I shall thus satisfy
                        every possible demand of social custom, and perhaps you will be able to persuade Jacqueline to
                        see that I have done so. Her pride is all that I fear now as an obstacle."
                    By this time the pair had reached the point where their roads parted, and with warm
                        adieus they separated, Roger to proceed on his journey, Barnegal to confront his evil tempered
                        relative.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    TIGER BILL
                    ALTHOUGH it was only a little past mid-winter, the day was a good deal more than
                        comfortably warm, and after his morning ride over his plantation, "Tiger Bill"
                        Barnegal, as he was always called, passed through the low lying, broadly built, one-storied
                        house, and, seating himself on the spacious veranda, rapped with his riding whip upon a table
                        that stood there as if awaiting his command. To the servant who appeared in answer to his
                        rapping, spoke but the one word of command: "Snack!" The negro boy disappeared
                        and a few minutes later came out again bearing a tray on which some cold dishes were arranged
                        around a decanter of brandy that stood in the centre. Tiger Bill seized this latter the moment
                        the tray was placed upon the table, and filling a small engraved wine glass with the sprits,
                        drained it at a draught. Then falling  it again he
                        held it up to the light and lovingly contemplated its rich amber sparkle before sipping it
                        slowly and with relish. Not until he had finished and filled it again did he seem to have
                        appetite for the dainty cold biscuits and the paper-thin slices of ham that constituted his
                        "snack."
                    He was clad from head to foot in spotless white linen, as was his custom except in
                        the coldest weather that the southern coast country knows. He was exquisitely groomed and shaven
                        so smoothly as to leave no faintest suggestion of beard upon his face. His hair, as white even
                        as his linen, was still thick upon his head, and he wore it, after the fashion of the time,
                        brushed smoothly back without a part, and done into a queue behind.
                    "Shoes!" he said to the servant who stood behind him, and that
                        attentive person quickly removed his master's riding boots and stockings, and setting a
                        foot-tub of cold water before him, proceeded to bathe his feet. When he had carefully adjusted
                        fresh hose to his master's legs and placed a pair of low cut, silver-buckled shoes upon
                        his feet, the negro retired without further orders and the planter resumed his leisurely but
                        close attention to the decanter. The serving-man knew that he would sit there  sipping brandy till the four o'clock dinner
                        hour, if he were not interrupted, as was exceedingly unlikely.
                    For Tiger Bill Barnegal had no white in-mate in his house, and it was not his custom
                        to receive visitors. This man, always of violent temper, had quarrelled with the world a quarter
                        of a century before, and from that time to this had held as little intercourse with his
                        fellow-men as the exigencies of his affairs would permit. Two or three times a year he wrote a
                        business letter to his factor in Charles Town. He received in the veranda the sailormen who
                        managed his little fleet of coasting craft, when they came up the creek to the plantation to
                        receive freight or orders. He went to court four times a year to attend to affairs that might be
                        most conveniently arranged at that general meeting-place of men, and still more to watch the
                        course of the multifarious litigation in which he was constantly engaged. For he always had
                        lawsuits pending, most of them frivolous in character and cantankerous in their origin. In
                        brief, he was a man at war with humankind. He had well earned his sobriquet of "Tiger
                        Bill."
                    But he was destined on this afternoon to be interrupted in that brandy sipping which,
                        in  dulged in daily for many years, had inflamed his
                        complexion as much as his temper. He had scarcely settled himself comfortably, indeed, before
                        his nephew rode up and, dismounting, entered the high hung veranda.
                    Tiger Bill rose and advanced to meet the younger Barnegal, but with no suggestion of
                        welcome in his mien.
                    "May I ask to what I am indebted for this visit? I assure you it is quite
                        unexpected."
                    "I know that very well, uncle, and I have not willingly intruded upon you. I
                        come solely upon a matter of imperative business. If you will permit me I will state the matter
                        as briefly as possible, and will then relieve you of a presence which I know to be
                        unwelcome."
                    "Does the imperative business of which you speak, concern me in any
                        way?" asked the elder man, still putting a cynical sneer into every word by the tone
                        and manner in which he spoke it.
                    "Yes, sir, it concerns you as the head of our family. I have come to ask
                        your approval of a marriage that I have in contemplation."
                    "Ah! indeed. Marriage is always an interesting subject. Most human follies
                        are so. But in order to give the matter the undivided  attention that its possibilities of goodor evil deserve, we need to discuss it calmly and in
                        comfortable postures. We will be seated, if you please."
                    With that, he brought the stock of his riding-whip down upon the table with a
                        violence that made the glasses jingle and warned the black man in the neighboring dining-room
                        not to tarry long before answering the familiar summons. The servitor appeared almost instantly
                        and his master, waving his hand at the porch chairs that stood everywhere about, bade him
                        "set out a chair for this gentleman's use.
                    There was so much of scorn and contempt in the cynical courtesy that young
                        Barnegal's first impulse was to decline the proffered seat, turn on his heel and quit
                        the place at once. But he thought better of that and seated himself instead.
                    "Bring a glass for this gentleman's use," was the next
                        command.
                    Young Barnegal, like all the men of his time, was accustomed to take a social glass
                        upon occasion, particularly after a long journey on horseback. But so repugnant to him was the
                        thought of eating or drinking under his uncle's roof that he sought to decline the
                        hospitality; but the elder man held to his purpose.
                    
                    "Surely you would not affront me by refusing to take a glass with me after
                        your long ride."
                    "I meant no affront sir, I assure you, but;"
                    "Very well then, fill your glass and permit me to propose the young
                        gentlewoman's health, whoever she may be. You have not yet favored me with her
                        name," he added when the glasses had been emptied.
                    "Her name is Jacqueline Alton," responded the young man.
                        "I think you will agree with me that she is a gentlewoman worthy to be come the wife of
                        any man in Carolina."
                    "You mean of course, though you are too polite to say so, that even so
                        malignant an old cynic as you take me to be, could find nothing in Mistress Jacqueline Alton to
                        criticise. Pardon me," seeing that his nephew was about to interrupt, "do not
                        protest, please. My temper does not easily brook contradiction, even when it is meant to be
                        polite. I do not happen to know the young gentlewoman you mention, in any personal way at least,
                        and, therefore, it would be unreasonable presumption on my part to find fault with her. I have
                        no doubt that she has all the virtues in the calendar, and quite all the charms that you most
                        admire in women.  But, as you know, it has been many
                        years since I visited Geoffrey Alton, and naturally I know nothing of his daughter.
                        Nevertheless, as I say, I have no doubt that the young lady is quite all that your imagination
                        paints her. If so, I am so much the more pleased with your tidings that you are in love with
                        her. I have from the first intended that you should come to that state of mind. It was to bring
                        that about, far more than to give you the advantage of instruction at the hands of a notably
                        accomplished tutor, that I sent you as a boy to Alton House for tuition. I wished you to grow up
                        in that intimate boy and girl association with this very young lady, which so certainly leads to
                        love when both its victimspardon me, I mean both parties to the arrangementgrow up.
                        Understanding this, you will understand that the tidings you bring me of the accomplishment of
                        my long cherished purpose, gives me the very greatest pleasure."
                    The young man was astonished to the verge of speechlessness. But he managed to gasp
                        out his thanks and to say:
                    "Then, uncle, you will not object, as I feared you might, to standing for me
                        in this matter? As the head of our family, you will ask Col. Alton for Jacqueline's
                        hand for me?"
                    
                    "I regret to see that you jump too readily at conclusions. I have been at
                        lifelong enmity with Geoffrey Alton, and I cannot now go to him, craving a favor. But I will
                        this day write him a letter. I will send it by a trusty servant, so that he shall receive it
                        to-night or, early in the morningit is only a matter of twenty odd miles to Alton House. After
                        tomorrowafter to-morrow, mind youyou will be free, with my full permission to go to him and
                        yourself ask him for his daughter's hand. Now, we will drink again to the young
                        gentlewoman, and then I must ask you to leave me. You know I invite no one to dinner, and
                        besides, I have a letter to write in your behalf."
                    He filled the glasses, and, standing, proposed the toast" To the young woman
                        in the case!" But he added nothing of good wishes for her, and the moment he set his
                        glass down, he rapped violently for the servant and commanded: "Bring this
                        gentleman's horse to the door." Then, by way of adieu, he seated himself at
                        the table, poured a glass of brandy for himself, held it up to the light, and making a slight
                        inclination toward his nephew, said, "I drink to your next visit to your always
                        affectionate uncle."
                    
                    The young man mounted without recognizing either the seeming courtesy or the insult
                        that it so thinly veiled. He rode away with his brain in a whirl of bewilderment. He had
                        expected his uncle to fall into a rage at the announcement of his wish to marry Jacqueline
                        Alton, and he had half unconsciously kept his fist doubled, ready to knock the old reprobate
                        down the moment he should say any of the insulting things about Jacqueline which he expected him
                        to say. But the older man had said none of them. On the contrary, he had professed delight in
                        the fact that his nephew had fallen in love with the girl. And yet, and yet, and yet. From
                        beginning to end of the conversation, the man's tone had been strongly marked with a
                        contempt that might mean any conceivable or inconceivable malice.
                    "I wonder what he is going to put into that letter!" was the
                        youth's final reflection as he rode out of his uncle's domain and into the
                        public highway. "Well, at any rate he cannot now claim the right to interfere with my
                        affairs. I have paid him the utmost tittle of my debt of deference, and he has himself bidden me
                        go to Alton House on the day after to-morrow and ask Col. Alton for Jacqueline's hand.
                        Going as I shall, with such a commission from the 
                        head of my house, even Jacqueline's scruples can find no occasion for Objecting to our
                        engagement.
                    "But I wonder what the old Tiger will put into that letter!"
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    TIGER BILL'S let
                    THE moment Charles Barnegal took his leave, Tiger Bill rapped for the servant, and
                        when he came, said to him:
                    "Empty the brandy from that decanter. No, no," seeing the servant
                        entering the house, "empty it on the ground. Now send the decanter to be washed, and
                        bring me another, with a clean glass." With that he seized the two glasses that had
                        been used, and dashed them violently against the foot of an iron drainpipe, breaking them to
                        bits. Then he ordered writing materials, and when they came he set himself down to write the
                        letter of his life.
                    That is What he wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "THE LIVE OAKS 19th February, 1779.
                                             "COL. GEOFFREY ALTON: "Alton House,
                                            "Sir:
                                        
                                        You may or may not be surprised at the receipt of this letter
                                            from me, or you may be annoyed, or you  may be neither. I do not in the least care with what
                                            emotion you receive it. It is at any rate with joy and gladness that I am
                                            writing it.
                                        "My nephew Charles Barnegal, this day announced to me
                                            the fact that he loves your daughter. He came to me to ask that I, as the
                                            head of what remains of the Barnegal family, should go to you with a request
                                            for the hand of your daughter as his wife. I have declined to do so. I have
                                            told him, however, that I would write and send this letter, and that after
                                            its delivery he might go to you in his own proper person and prefer his
                                            suit. He will do so at once, without doubt, and you will understand that he
                                            does so with my full consent. So far as he is concerned, I fully and finally
                                            abdicate all right, title and interest ill the headship of my family.
                                        "But before you give your consent to this alliance,
                                            perhaps you will hear a little history, which, except for this communication
                                            to you, I shall keep to myself, as I have hitherto done, unless this
                                            marriage takes place. In that event I shall instantly make it public,
                                            although it will bring a sore dishonor upon my house and name. I have but a
                                            few years to live before the inordinate brandy-drinking in which I
                                            habitually indulge shall make an end of me, and, as you know, I have no
                                            children to inherit my name. As for my nephew, I would gladly leave to him
                                            and his descendants a heritage of shame if I might do so without blackening
                                            the reputation of my own house. As it is, I prefer to keep to myself the
                                            facts that I am about to relate to you, and I shall do so unless you compel
                                            me to make them public by permitting you daughter to become the wife of my
                                            nephew. In that event what I now write to you will be published broadcast
                                            throughout South Carolina.
                                        "More than a quarter of a century ago I loved a woman
                                            with all that was best in my nature. You took her away from me and made her
                                            your wife. You were  a more
                                            attractive man than I was, in the eyes of women. You were tall, strong and
                                            unusually handsome. I was rather under the middle height and my hair was a
                                            brick dust red. You had received your education abroad and had traveled
                                            extensively in Europea fact that made had no education except such as a
                                            Carolina schoolmaster could give me, and I had been nowhere out of the
                                            colony. You were familiar with shelvesful of learned books of which I did
                                            not know even the titles. More important still, you had won special honor by
                                            your deeds of daring in the Indian wars. In brief you had every advantage of
                                            me in the wooing of a woman whom we both loved, and you made full use of
                                            your advantage. When you married Jacqueline Do Saussure, after whom I learn
                                            that your daughter is named, I became your enemy. I hated you with all the
                                            intensity of a nature which you doubtless would call weak, but concerning
                                            which I entertain an opposite opinion. I have so hated you ever since and I
                                            still hate you with unabated fervor. I mention this, lest you misconstrue my
                                            mood.
                                        "But when the woman I loved became your wife, I sought
                                            to forget her. I went abroad with my brother, a chronic wanderer, and in
                                            France particularly I sought forgetfulness in dissipations to which my
                                            brother introduced me. In Paris I met and instantly loved Marie Garnier, the
                                            French woman who afterwards became my brother's wife and the mother
                                            of my nephew Charles Barnegal. My brother stole her from me by his superior
                                            fascinations just as you had before stolen Jacqueline De Saussure. To him
                                            French was as a mother tongue. To me it was a blinder riddle than a problem
                                            in Euclid. He was handsomeas you were. He was glib of tongue and possessed
                                            of a certain sparkling intelligence that charmed men and women alike. He was
                                            full of wit and self-possession, while I was awkward, easily  embarrassed and painfully
                                            self-conscious. What chance had I against such a rival? He asked for Marie
                                            Garnier's hand and, highly connected as she was, his suit was
                                            successful. He married her and brought her to Carolina, the more to wound
                                            and affront me. Her fortune was large, and with it he added to his estates
                                            until mine shrank into insignificance in comparison. He and the French woman
                                            became social leaders in the colony, while I retired to my plantation and my
                                            brandy bottle. I ought to have killed him, as I ought to have killed you.
                                            But I did neither. It was weakness on my part.
                                        "It was not until after the death of both my brother and
                                            the French woman that I learned the facts I am about to relate. Had I known
                                            them sooner, I should have wreaked an exquisite revenge upon both by
                                            publishing the fact that the French woman was never my brother's
                                            wife. She lived and died in the belief that she was a married woman,
                                            entitled to carry a high head in Carolina. But that was only because I did
                                            not know what I afterwards learned. For I hated that French woman more even
                                            than I hate you. The fact to which I refer, was that my brother was already
                                            married when he took the French woman to be his wife. In the course of his
                                            wanderings he had drifted to Madrid and there married a woman immeasurably
                                            beneath him socially and intellectually, a woman beautiful, but ignorant,
                                            coarse and dissolutea woman who did not know who her father was. After a
                                            brief time the woman left my brother or he left herI do not know which and
                                            it does not matter. He returned to Paris and there, a year or two later
                                            married Marie Gamier as I have related.
                                        "When I learned these facts after the death of my
                                            brother and his French woman, I planned to make their son, my nephew, the
                                            victim of an exquisite revenge which now nears its completion. I secured an
                                            appointment, as next of kin, to be guardian to the French woman's
                                                 baseborn child. I sent him
                                            to your house to be tutored in company with your children, in order that he
                                            might grow up in intimacy with them and at last fall in love, as the phrase
                                            is, with your daughter. He has fulfilled his part of my purpose, and now my
                                            opportunity has come. I have told you that he is a man born out of wedlock.
                                            That is crime that the society of Carolina never forgives. If I could do so
                                            without bringing shame upon my own name, I should blast my nephew's
                                            life once for all by making the truth everywhere known. As it is I prefer
                                            simply to tell it to you. That will answer my purpose quite as well. Knowing
                                            the facts you cannot permit your daughter to marry Charles Barnegal, for
                                            then your grandchildren would be the sons and daughters of a son of nobody,
                                            and the fact of their illegitimate origin would be perfectly known to every
                                            man and women in Carolina. I should take care of that. But there will be no
                                            occasion for such activity on my part. You are not the man willingly to add
                                            a bar sinister to your family's escutcheon, and when you repulse
                                            the young man's suit for such a cause, I shall be revenged upon the
                                            dead in person of their son.
                                        "You will wonder perhaps that I did not assert the young
                                            man's illegitimacy long ago in proceedings to oust him from his
                                            inheritance; or rather you will not wonder, seeing that in that way I must
                                            have put a stain upon my own namea thing that I have resolutely refused to
                                            do and shall refuse unless the impossible should come to pass in the
                                            marriage of your daughter to the French woman's son.
                                        "You are at full liberty sir, to exhibit this letter to
                                            the young man as explaining your rejection of his suit, if it pleases you to
                                            do so. I shall send this by a trusty servant, in order that it may reach you
                                            to-night or early to-morrow. But I have arranged that you shall have full
                                            four and twenty hours in which to meditate upon  the matter before meeting the young man who calls himself
                                            Charles Barnegal.
                                        "I am sir, with unabated dislike,
                                        
                                            "Your enemy,
                                                "WILLIAM BARNEGAL."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    A stirrup CUP
                    TIGER BILL'S letter was delivered into Colonel Alton's hands about
                        midnight while that gentleman was preparing himself for bed. It naturally produced a great deal
                        of agitation in his mind. His first thought was to send for Colonel Marion and send a challenge
                        to the writer of the insulting missive; but upon reading it over and over again, he saw clearly
                        that there was nothing in it to which he could properly take exception. There was to him
                        personally no insult, and no affront except that Tiger Bill had declared a hatred for him of
                        which he was already fully aware.
                    After walking the floor for half the night, his mind became clear as to his duty. He
                        saw that he must show the letter in its entirety to young Barnegal whenever that young gentleman
                        should come to Alton House. Beyond that he could do nothing.
                    
                    Col. Alton got very little sleep that night, and in the morning he was unable to
                        leave his bed. He sent a message through his son, excusing himself to his guests, and asking the
                        younger man to preside in his stead at breakfast. After her custom, Jacqueline attended upon her
                        father during the day so far as he would permit. But otherwise, no member of the family saw him
                        until the following morning.
                    About noon of that second day, young Barnegal appeared, and asked for an interview in
                        private with Colonel Alton. The two were closeted for an hour or more in the library, and when
                        Barnegal reappeared, he was pale and haggard like one who had gone through long illness. He did
                        not ask for Jacqueline, but sought out Roger instead. To him he said:
                    "Roger, old comrade, I am going away. I do not know when I shall return;
                        indeed, I don't know that I shall ever return. I have first a duty to perform, however,
                        in which, if mine enemy were other than he is, I should ask you to act for me."
                    "Your enemy is your uncle? Against him I will act for you with great
                        cheerfulness. Will you write to him now, or shall I join you at your own house?"
                    
                    "I will write to him now, but not here not from this houselet us go to the
                        nearest tavern."
                    The young man spoke with difficulty, like one choking with rage. He seemed to force
                        out his words, and he spoke as few of them as possible, so that during the ride almost nothing
                        was said.
                    Arrived at the tavern young Barnegal sat down and wrote as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "To WILLIAM
                                                BARNEGAL
                                        
                                        "At The Live Oaks.
                                        "SIR: In a letter to Colonel Alton, which that gentleman
                                            has shown to me in accordance with your permission, you have slandered the
                                            memory of my dead mother. I need say nothing further to justify this note,
                                            which is written to demand of you the satisfaction I have a right to exact.
                                        "My friend. Mr. Roger Alton, will bear this missive for
                                            me, and if you will refer him to the person whom you may select to act for
                                            you the details of you, the details of our meeting can be arranged without
                                            loss of time.
                                        "A waiting your answer through Mr. Alton, I am, Sir,
                                        
                                            "CHARLES
                                                    BARNEGAL."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    Roger took the note but before leaving, turned to young Barnegal and said:
                    "Charlie, old boy, is this necessary?"
                    "Absolutely. No power on earth could change my purpose. It could not be
                        changed,  indeed, unless I were a coward and a sneak,
                        unworthy to bear the name I do, or any other name that is respected among men. Go!"
                    That was all. Roger mounted his horse and rode away rapidly. Two hours later he rode
                        up to the piazza of The Live Oaks where the elder Barnegal was sitting as before over his brandy
                        bottle. He did not arise to receive his guest or even bid him dismount. He simply said:
                    "What do you want, sir?"
                    Roger flushed at the discourtesy, but put it aside in behalf of more serious matters.
                    "I bear this note to you, sir," he answered.
                    "From your nephew, sir."
                    "Nephew? I have no nephew. The young man who claims to be suchwell, never
                        mind. I decline to recognize the existence of a nephew."
                    "Very well, then," said Roger. "Have it as you will. It
                        comes from Charles Barnegal, and I am instructed to deliver it into your hands, or to any friend
                        whom you may choose to act for you. In brief, sir, it is a challenge to mortal combat."
                    The old man, still without rising, rapped with his riding whip upon the table, and
                        upon the servant's appearance bade him bring pen,  ink and paper. Upon reflection he determined, however, not to write, but to
                        emphasize the insulting character of his reply by sending it verbally.
                    "You can say to the young man," he said to Roger, "that I
                        really cannot consent to recognize him as a gentleman by meeting him in personal warfare. There
                        are reasons with which he is now familiar, and which he may possibly choose to confide to you
                        but which I must not, there are reasons, I say, why I cannot regard him as a gentleman, or a
                        person in any way entitled to address a gentleman. Say that, please, and now
                        good-morning."
                    Roger's strong impulse was to slap the old fellow's jaws. He
                        controlled himself, however, and said:
                    "Whatever your opinion may be of Mr. Charles Barnegal, or of his standing in
                        the corn-titled to be treated with ordinary courtesy. I decline, sir, to carry a verbal message
                        from you to anybody. If you refuse to receive the note which I bear, and to answer it in
                        writing, I shall myself take measures to avenge the insult you are trying to put upon me, and I
                        assure you, sir, that in such case you will have to meet me whether you wish to do so or
                        not."
                    
                    The menace was effective. The old man turned to his writing materials and wrote
                        substantially what he had said verbally, addressed it and handed it to Roger, having first
                        opened and spread out upon his table the challenge which that young man had brought to him.
                    When young Barnegal opened his uncle's note, he handed it to Roger to read.
                    "There!" he said. "I cannot tell you, though I perfectly
                        know what he means when he says that I am not entitled to rank as a gentleman, or to address a
                        challenge to a gentleman. I perfectly understand his excuse for refusing to meet me. I shall
                        have no further use for your services in this matter, Roger. My uncle refuses to accept a
                        challenge at my hands. I have no need of a second in what I am going to do."
                    Roger saw that there was no use in remonstrating. All that is demoniacal in human
                        nature had been aroused in the young man's soul. Roger did not need to ask questions in
                        order to learn what his friend's purpose was, but he determined instantly to ride with
                        him. Young Barnegal objected, saying "It will compromise you, Roger. I am going to do
                        something for which I cannot offer to the public any excuse whatever. Unfortunately, I cannot
                        even state  to any human being the nature of the
                        affront this man has put upon me. I cannot tell you the wrong he has done to the mother who bore
                        me. I cannot tell you my reason for seeking revenge, but revenge I will have if I have to follow
                        him to the ends of the earth. Go home, Roger, let me go alone."
                    Roger said nothing in the way of remonstrance, but at any rate he adhered to his
                        purpose of going with his friend.
                    He said: "I will go with you, Charlie, whether you ask me or not. Whether
                        you even permit it or not I am going with you."
                    And so they set out in silence on the return trip to The Live Oaks. They arrived
                        there just before sunset. Young Barnegal leapt off his horse, and with his heavy riding whip in
                        hand, approached his uncle who still sat in the piazza. Before the old man could even rise, he
                        lashed him as one might lash a disobedient hound. Roger called to him presently.
                    "You have done enough, Charlie, you have done enough! Control
                        yourself."
                    The young man paused, while the elder writhed in agony from the blows he had received
                        across the face.
                    "I have not done enough until he goes down upon his knees and begs my pardon
                        for his 
                        
                            
                                Tin Interview with Tiger Hill.
                        
                         insults to my mother s memory. Down on your knees,
                        sir, down on your knees!" And with that he lashed him again and again. It was only when
                        Roger dragged the impassioned youth away by force that he desisted.
                    The old man was by this time beyond the power of kneeling or apologizing or
                        retracting or doing anything else. He had collapsed completely and lost consciousness. Roger
                        rapped upon the table for the servant and said to him:
                    "Attend to your masterhe is injured. Come, Charlie."
                    They mounted their horses and rode away.
                    Roger took young Barnegal back with him to Alton House, because he feared to leave
                        him in his present mood. It was after midnight when they arrived there, and Roger succeeded in
                        getting his friend into bed. He was already in a fever.
                    In the meantime. Colonel Alton had sent for Jacqueline, and very tenderly and
                        affectionately had told her simply this muchthat Charles Barnegal had come to him asking for her
                        hand; that he had previously received a letter from the young man's uncle, which, if
                        its statements were true, rendered the marriage in question utterly impossible. He said to her
                        further:
                    
                    "I have Charles's permission to tell you the facts that thus
                        interfere with your life and his, if you choose to hear them. My own preference would he that
                        you should not know them at all. Think it over, daughter, before you answer me, and I will do as
                        you say in the matter."
                    "I do not need to think it over, father. I do not wish to hear any statement
                        of the facts whatever. I am Jacqueline Altonbear that in mindand no daughter of Alton House has
                        ever yet entered a family without the consent of its head. I will not be the first to violate a
                        tradition of our house. But please, father, let no one speak to me of this. Let it end here. I
                        will bear myself bravely as your daughter should."
                    She kissed him, and in moment more was gone.
                    It was a week before young Barnegal recovered from his illness. As soon as he was
                        able to sit up he insisted upon leaving the house.
                    "My presence here," he explained to Roger, "must of
                        necessity be distressing to Jacqueline. If you will let Marlborough ride with me for this one
                        day I will go this morning."
                    Roger pleaded for the privilege of himself  accompanying his friend to his home, but the young man stoutly and steadily refused.
                    "NO," he said. "I am not going to remain at home. I am
                        going away. I am going to the northward. There is fighting to be done there, and enemies who do
                        not refuse to meet one who comes armed. We must say good-by today."
                    "Be it as you will, Charlie," said Roger, "but first we
                        will drink a stirrup cup."
                    He passed into the house, poured a rich goblet full of richer wine, and, standing by
                        the side of Barnegal's horse, after he had mounted, gave him to drink of it. Barnegal
                        passed the cup in turn to Roger, who, holding his friend's stirrup, drained the goblet
                        and dashed it upon the stile shattering it to bits, in order that no human lips might ever again
                        touch it.
                    It was an old custom, long disused except upon the occasion of partings that involved
                        more than ordinary emotion.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    IN which ROGER ALTON LOSES his TEMPER
                    WHAT or how much Jacqueline Alton suffered in consequence of the events related in
                        the preceding chapters, her friends were left to guess for themselves. That she should suffer
                        severely was inevitable. She was much too true a woman to have given her love in a half-hearted
                        way to any man, and the blow which had so stunned Barnegal must have been a terrible one to hera
                        woman without a man's resource of participation in the troubled life of the time.
                    But if she suffered she made no sign. Her face grew grave as the old joyousness died
                        out of it. Her color, which had never been strong, faded away altogether; but her step was still
                        elastic and her voice as cheerful as ever. She devoted herself with her customary earnestness to
                        her varied duties. The blood of a proud race flowed in her veins, and she bore herself as  a proud woman, the daughter of such a house, should.
                    The servants saw nothing unusual in her appearance on manner. Visitors marked no
                        change. Her very maid who had attended her in the solitude of her own chamber all the days of
                        her life, guessed nothing of her mistress's sorrow. Somewhat later she was puzzled over
                        the fact that "Miss Jack" began to lock her door whenever she quitted her
                        room. This was a mystery to everyone, but it had no apparent connection with the events that
                        preceded its beginning. In brief, the young woman bore herself in a most exemplary and
                        gentlewomanly way, which was precisely what those who knew her had reason to expect at her
                        hands.
                    Roger alone ever spoke to her on the subject that so distressed her, and he did so
                        but once. It was several days after her interview with her father that Roger said to her:
                    "Jack, dear, I have some messages for you which I am charged to deliver, if
                        you wish to receive them. They are messages explanatory in a way of what has occurred, yet they
                        do not fully explain."
                    His sister at this point interrupted him, speaking quickly:
                    "Let's dismiss this whole subject, brother.
                    
                    You can readily believe that it is not a pleasant one to me. I need no explanations,
                        and I want none. I am content to trust the wisdom which prompts my father and Charles to agree
                        in this matter. I do not wish to know the details. I have but one favor to ask, and that is,
                        that nobody shall know there ever was any engagement to break in the case. I do not need the
                        sympathy of people outside the house, and Jacqueline Alton is not a person to be pitied by
                        anybody."
                    Roger kissed her brow tenderly by way of reply, and the subject was henceforth a
                        forbidden one in the house.
                    Some weeks later, Roger sat in the library discussing with his father matters
                        connected with the business of the great estate with which Colonel Alton desired that his son
                        should be familiar, so that in the event of his own death the young man might be prepared to
                        succeed him in the management of affairs.
                    It was now April, and Roger, who had been busy since his return in organizing and
                        drilling the militia of his district, had just received the following note from Governor
                        Rutledge.
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "CHARLES TOWN, April
                                                8. 1779.
                                        
                                        "MY DEAR SIR:
                                    
                                    "I have private information of contemplated military
                                        operations which in my judgment arc likely to result in  the immediate invasion of this state. I beg you,
                                        therefore, to hasten the work of organization in your district, if it be not
                                        already complete. I shall probably desire your presence at my headquarters
                                        shortly, and will thank you to hold yourself in readiness to join me at a
                                        moment's warning.
                                    "With much esteem, I beg to subscribe myself, Sir,
                                    
                                        "Your obedient servant,
                                                "JOHN RUTLEDGE,
                                            "Governor and
                                        Commander-in-Chief.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "To ROGER ALTON, Esq.,
                    
                        "Captain and A. D. C."
                    It was in view of Roger's probable departure within a day or two that the
                        present conversation was held. The business had been finished and Roger was re-arranging the
                        papers, when Jacqueline tapped at the library door and entering, said:
                    "I have something to say to you, father, if you are at leisure to hear
                        me."
                    "Certainly, my daughter," replied the old gentleman, placing an
                        easy chair for her use in front of his own.
                    "Allow me to replace these papers," said Roger," and I
                        will withdraw. It will occupy only a minute or two."
                    "I think you need not go, brother," replied Jacqueline. "I
                        have no longer any secrets to keep from you, and, as I was obliged to conceal this matter from
                        you the other day when  you asked me about it, I am
                        very anxious to have you hear what I have to say now, though indeed I do not understand it
                        myself."
                    She said this with a puzzled, half-bewildered look upon her face. Roger bantered her
                        a little upon her new role of mystery-monger, at which she smiled and replied:
                    "At least this mysteryfo it is a mystery to meis not of my making or my
                        seeking." Then turning to her father she continued:
                    "About ten days ago, as I was returning from my visit to the sick people at
                        the lower quarters*
                        
                            *
                            "Quarters" in Southern parlance, are negroes'
                                houses, and on the plantations these were commonly built in two villagesone near the
                                "great house," and the other at some distant point. The
                                "lower quarters" of which Jacqueline spoke, were evidently those
                                constituting the more distant group.
                         a man came out of the thicket and met me at the big gate. I was not alarmed when he
                        accosted me, as the gate was shut between us, and the quarters were so nearjust out of sight
                        behind the grovethat Dolly would have taken me there in half a minute, if the man had seemed
                        disposed to be rude. He was very gentle and courteous, however, and I think he chose that place
                        for the meeting purposely, so that I might not be alarmed. He  gave me no name, but said he had something of very great importance to
                        confide to my keeping, and that in giving it to me he would give me written instructions
                        concerning it. He begged me to promise, however, that I would strictly follow the directions,
                        assuring me that a failure to do so might bring serious trouble upon him. He then withdrew his
                        request for a promise, saying:
                    "No,I have no right to exact that. But I beg you to take what I shall give
                        you to your own room and there read the letter which is addressed to you. After you have read it
                        you will not refuse, I am sure, to do what I request of you.'
                    "With that he went into the bushes and brought out a queer little chest and
                        a letter, and gave them to me, after which he touched his hat, bowed, and walked away into the
                        swamp. The chest was singularly heavy for its size, but, covering it with my riding habit, I
                        brought it home, and in my own room opened and read the letter. It is a queer document, and has
                        puzzled me a good deal. If you will allow me I will read it to you. Singularly enough it is
                        painfully wrought out in printing letters." And with that, she read as follow:
                    
                    "Pray do not throw this sheet aside as an anonymous letter because it has no
                        name signed at the bottom. I have no name to sign. I am a dead man, a man who died years ago,
                        and as a dead man am unable to do what I am going to ask you to do for me. I died with a duty
                        unperformed, and I cannot rest until it shall be done. I have toiled and suffered that I might
                        rest a little, and the completion of my task I am placing in your hands. The little chest that I
                        have given you holds that which belong to your father. It has cost me years of toil and
                        privation and suffering, but of that I have no right to complain. I speak of it only to impress
                        upon you the necessity of guarding the chest carefully while it hall remain in your possession.
                        Keep it and keep it in secret until the date carved upon its top shall come. Then take it to
                        Geoffrey Alton and give it to him By that time I shall be out of the neighborhood at least. If
                        you deliver it sooner a search may be made for me, and if I be found, terrible suffering will
                        ensue,not to me, for I cannot suffer more than I do,but to others who are innocent, as I am not.
                        I enclose the key to the chest, in this letter
                    "Where is the chest, Jacqueline?" asked Colonel Alton and Roger in
                        a breath.
                    "In my room. I'll fetch it," she said. "The date
                        of delivery has come, and I shall be relieved to be rid of a secret."
                    When she returned with the box in her hands, Roger sprang forward with a half-stifled
                        exclamation of surprise and inspected it minutely.
                    "What's the matter, brother," asked Jacqueline.
                    
                    "Did you ever see the chest before?"
                    "If I did," replied he, turning away with a puzzled look,
                        "I am under a pledge of secrecy regarding it. But I am not sure that I ever saw this
                        box before. I have seen one which it closely resembles, and that under rather peculiar
                        circumstances, but I am not free to tell you about it."
                    "You, too, cherishing a mysterious secret about a mysterious
                        chest," exclaimed Jacqueline. "Really this is provoking. Here is a quiet,
                        honest family suddenly thrown into a fog of mystery which it can neither penetrate nor
                        dissipate, and that by no fault of its own, either."
                    While this conversation was in progress, Colonel Alton had opened the chest and now
                        sat staring at its contents. It held gold coin and nothing else. On the inner surface of the lid
                        was scratched an interest calculation, and beneath it were traced these words in printing
                        letters:
                    "Interest not paid annually compounds annually. Count the contents and know
                        that the debt is at last paid to the uttermost farthing. But alas the crime remains."
                    Colonel Alton closed the box and placed it  upon his desk. Then, leaning his head upon his hand, he ejaculated in tones of heartstricken
                        tenderness:
                    "My poor, dead friend!"
                    Roger and Jacqueline noiselessly withdrew.
                    Colonel Alton evidently knew more than either his son or his daughter could guess
                        regarding the source from which the chest of money had come, but he made no reference whatever
                        to the subject, and they, of course, did not question him.
                    Not many days later came a courier with orders for Roger to join his chief
                        immediately, and the young man, before leaving, sought a private conference with his father.
                    When closeted, Roger opened the conversation with more of trepidation than he was
                        ever likely to feel in the presence of the enemy he was so soon to meet in the field.
                    "I am afraid, father, that I have not acted altogether as I should in
                        postponing this interview so long. I have waited, however, in the hope that I should be able to
                        go to Lonsdale again before telling you that which, in strict propriety, I ought not to have
                        been able to tell you at all until after a second visit. But my duties"
                    
                    "My boy," said Colonel Alton, interrupting him and speaking with
                        evident emotion, "you are not about to tell me that you have paid your addresses to
                        Helen Vargave. You do not mean that, I trust!"
                    There was that in the old gentleman's voice which both puzzled and
                        distressed his son. His tone expressed surprise and sorrow, even to wretchedness.
                    "I do not understand you, father," said Roger, "and your
                        tone pains me sorely. I have addressed Helen Vargave, and she has in effect promised to be my
                        wife as soon as the troubled condition of the country shall have passed away. It remains only to
                        secure your consent."
                    A full minute or more elapsed before Colonel Alton replied.
                    "I am deeply grieved, Roger," he said after awhile, "more
                        deeply grieved than you can imagine. This is indeed a calamity. When I rejoiced in your return,
                        and in the spirit of manliness which prompted it, I little thought that this was to be the
                        result, else I should have mourned rather. You know very well that I have always disapproved of
                        unnecessary paternal interference in these matters. It cost me a struggle to do my duty in
                        Jacqueline's casea struggle  from which I
                        have not yet quite recovered and now I have a still more distressing necessity upon me. In that
                        case, I had only to lay certain facts before Charles Barnegal which themselves forbade the
                        banns. In this I must interfere and forbid them without stating any facts whatever. I cannot
                        tell you whybut you can never marry Helen Vargave."
                    Roger was stunned. There was no other woman in all Carolina, he had thought, who was
                        likely to prove so acceptable to Colonel Alton as a daughter-in-law. He managed, in spite of the
                        astonishment which nearly took away his breath, to ask:
                    "Why, father, what does this mean? You cannot mean to hint that Helen
                        Vargave is unworthy to be the wife of an Alton?"
                    "No, no, no," returned the other with vehemence. "She is
                        the worthiest young woman I have any knowledge of, and that is what distresses me most. If she
                        were less worthy if I felt less tenderly regardful of her than I do,it would pain me less to
                        interfere. In that case I should care but little for the suffering I must inflict on her, and as
                        for the pain given youwhy, you are a man and a gentleman, able to bear life's burdens
                        with straight shoulders and head erect. It is for Helen,  whom I love as if she were ray own daughter, that I am most deeply
                        concerned."
                    "But, father," Roger broke in, "if you think so well of
                        Helen, what earthly obstacle can there be to this marriage, which is not to take place in any
                        case until the return of peace? Are not the Vargaves as good a family as our own or any other in
                        the land, and is not her mother equally well connected?"
                    "Undoubtedly, and it was perfectly natural that you should have thought the
                        connection altogether excellent. For any other young man in South Carolina, Helen Vargave would
                        be a perfectly eligible bridebecause no other young man's father knows what I know. I
                        cannot tell you what that is,I cannot show you why you may not marry Helen Vargave I can only
                        tell you that you may not and must not and shall not."
                    "Am I to be dealt with like a child?" cried Roger, with an
                        indignation which he could neither suppress nor conceal. "Am I to be set guessing a lot
                        of riddles like a king's fool? Am I to be put off with hints and innuendos and
                        mysterious references to unexplained circumstances, instead of plain facts which I can
                        comprehend and judge for myself? I will submit to no such treatment. I am a full-grown  man; more than that, I am a gentleman, able both to
                        hear and speak the truth. I will not be treated as if I were a babe in pinafores who must be
                        wheedled into the surrender of unwholesome sugar plums. Tell me the plain facts, and trust me to
                        conduct myself as an Alton should. That name is mine as well as yours, and I am as jealous of
                        its honor as you are. I would not bring a stain upon it to save my lifeno, not even to save yur
                        life, my fatherbut I will not be juggled with in this matter. I will have the whole truth, and
                        will govern myself accordingly. I have sought Helen Vargave's love, and she has given
                        it to me. I have pledged my honor to marry her. I have yet to learn that any Alton has ever
                        proved recreant to such a pledge, and I am not going to be the first to bring dishonor upon the
                        name."
                    Mr. Roger had wrought himself into a very pretty rage, certainly. Indeed he was
                        fairly beside himself with passion, else he would never have used such language or such a tone
                        in addressing his father. The young man expectedin a half-unconscious wayto be ordered out of
                        the house the moment he ceased to speak; for the fathergentle as he was, and tender even to
                        womanliness in his dealings with his  family,was of
                        stern and imperious temper in all that concerned his dignity, and the respect due to him.
                    A transient flushing of the face, however, was the only sign of annoyance he gave
                        now, as he sat there in absolute silence, while Roger awaited his reply, and excitedly paced the
                        floor. The silence continued until it grew painful. When at last the father broke it, his voice
                        was as gentle as a woman's.
                    Corne and sit down, my son," he said, "and listen to me as calmly
                        as you can. I shall not rebuke your warmth, which under the circumstances does you honor, in
                        spite of its impropriety when manifested by a son in addressing his father."
                    Roger sat down abashed. He had been prepared for an outbreak of offended dignity, but
                        this gentle half-praise made him ashamed of himself. His father continued speaking, however,
                        giving him no chance to apologize, perhaps because he feared the high-spirited young fellow
                        might not avail himself of such an opportunity. That would have made the situation awkward.
                    "I am in honor bound, my son, to keep absolutely to myself, the knowledge
                        upon which my decision in this matter rests. I should be  glad to give you all the facts if I could, but I may not give them to any
                        human being without violating what I conceive is a most imperative obligation of honor. I may
                        say this much to you, however, by way of explanation. There hangs a sword over Helen
                        Vargave's head, and it hangs only by the frail thread of a monomaniac's will.
                        The secret which I must keep which I have kept sacredly, even when its keeping threatened us all
                        with ruinis not mine exclusively. If I alone knew it, it should die with me, and should be no
                        bar to your happiness. But one other man knows it, and his hatred of the Vargaves, and of me and
                        mine, amounts to insanity. He cherishes two bits of knowledgethis and one otherfor the purpose
                        of making them the ministers of his wrath. If Charles Barnegal should marry Jacqueline, this man
                        would immediately publish one of the facts and strike us to the earth. If you should marry Helen
                        Vargave, he would reveal the other, and wreak vengeance upon every one bearing the Vargave name.
                        He may choose to avenge himself upon the Vargaves in any case. Against that, however, I have now
                        a defence. One of his secrets he desires to keep because its publication would strike at the
                        reputation of his own house. He has had to tell it 
                        to me, however, and should he threaten to reveal the other for the destruction of the Vargaves,
                        I should meet him with a counter-threat. I would reveal the stain upon his own name if he should
                        dare lay a finger upon the fair fame of my friends the Vargaves. Years ago he threatened that,
                        but his fear of some vengeance at my hands restrained him. I did not then know what he has since
                        revealed to me, or I should all these years have held him to silence concerning the Vargaves by
                        a securer bond than I have hitherto been able to impose. But he is my implacable enemy, and if
                        he could at one blow destroy the Vargaves and bring sorrow to my family, he is desperate enough
                        to accept the ruin I should bring upon his own house.
                    "Now, bear one thing well in mind. There is no stain upon the Alton name.
                        There is nothing that can be said to our injury. There is no truth that we have any occasion to
                        conceal. Our men have all been brave, and upright, and truthful. Our women have all been above
                        reproach. You must not imagine that this human tiger,that is the
                        best epithet I can apply to himcan breathe aught to the shame or even to the reproach of any
                        Alton who ever lived. But should Jacqueline marry young Barnegal, this tiger would blight the
                        fame of  her husband, and so throw a shadow upon that
                        of her children. If you marry Helen Vargave, he will bring dishonor to her house, and the Altons
                        who shall come after you must bear a reproach. It is your duty not merely to keep the honor of
                        your name untarnished by any act of your own, but equally to hand it down to your children free
                        from inherited stains upon their mother's side. It is this duty to one's
                        children, and this alone, which limits a man's right in choosing a wife to please only
                        himself. He owes it to them to remember that in marrying he is appointing their mother, and not
                        only so, but their grandparents and great-grandparents as well. But, as I have already
                        intimated, it is for Helen's sake far more than your own that I am concerned. It is my
                        duty to protect the wife and child of my dead friend by every means in my power, and I tell you
                        solemnly that no worse ill can befall them than for you to make Helen Vargave your wife. Their
                        enemy and mine would blight their name and bring a sorrow upon them of which Helen, at least,
                        has never dreamed."
                    Roger was calm now, and able to speak respectfully, but he was by no means convinced.
                    "What you tell me, father, I am ready to accept as a sufficient explanation
                        of your refusal  to put me in possession of the
                        facts; but I must frankly own that it does not convince me of my duty to break my engagement.
                        Pardon me, but I think your anxiety leads you to exaggerate the danger. The man your enemy,
                        whoever he may be, and I think I know who he isis afraid of you, it seems, and has been
                        restrained for a long time by his cowardice. It seems to me unlikely that he will now invite at
                        your hands a revelation that must bring ruin upon his own family and shame to his own name for
                        the sake of wreaking a long postponed vengeance. And moreover, I have no valid excuse to offer
                        for seeking a release from my engagement, even if I desired it. My first duty is to be true to
                        my own obligations. As I look at the matter, I cannot honorably seek a releaseand I shall not
                        consent to be the first of my race recreant to the obligations of honor. I tell you frankly that
                        if you command me to break this engagement, I shall disobey you."
                    "Very well, my son. You are right in doing your duty as you understand it,
                        and I have no wish that you shall do otherwise. I shall therefore give you no command in this
                        case. Indeed, it is not necessary. The engagement will be broken soon enough without that. I
                        have not told you these things to persuade you  to
                        anything, or to compel you to anything, but simply to prepare you for the inevitable. I have no
                        fear that you will ever marry Helen, and so I do not forbid it. I only warn you, in advance,
                        that you can never marry her, so that you may be prepared.
                    "Now let's talk no more of this. You are about to leave home, and
                        the parting is sad enough to me, at any rate. I wish I could send you away with a lighter
                        heartas I do send you with my blessing. Hard money, as you know, is extremely scarce, and the
                        State and Continental bills are well nigh worthless, wherefore I have filled a belt for you,
                        with coin, for use in emergencies. You will find it in Jacqueline's charge, and must
                        wear it always upon your person."
                    And so the conversation was turned with a firm hand to matters of detail connected
                        with Roger's departure, and the youth had no further chance to question his
                        father's purposes. An hour or two later, he rode away, attended by his servantthe
                        stalwart young negro upon whom he had bestowed the ducal name of Marlborough.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    HUMPHREYS
                    JUST as night fell, Captain Roger Alton dismounted at the door of the Charles Town
                        mansion occupied by his chief as headquarters. Throwing in to Marlborough, with instructions as
                        to of the hard-ridden horses, the young staff officer touched his hat to the sentinel who stood
                        at the door with "presented" arms, and rout further formality into the
                        governor's office-room. Governor Rutledge rose ed, and held out his hand, saying:
                    "My dear boy, I am glad to see you, and We're likely to have work
                        enough, shortly, and I shall need you badly. Colonel Alton is well, I trust."
                    "Quite as well as usual, thank you," replied the young
                        aide-de-camp, "and as for myself, I am ready for service of as hard a sort as you have
                        to offer, Governor Rutledge."
                    "That is well," replied his chief, "as I shall  have to put your readiness to the proof. You are
                        well mounted, I hope."
                    "Nobody better so, sir. I've a pair of picked horses in admirable
                        condition, and I have been training them to all kinds of difficult work under the saddle. But
                        what's in the wind? What news have you?"
                    "Sh. You shall hear presently. But you're hungry, and
                        we'll take supper first. Then you shall hear what this excellent scout I beg your
                        pardonbut I've quite forgotten your name," turning to a stranger who sat in
                        the shadow of the chimney.
                    "I am sometimes called Humphreys, sir. You may call me Humphreys, if you
                        please."
                    Roger started. The voice which came out of the darkness was that of his companion,
                        the sailor, and he was on the very point of betraying his own acquaintance with the man, when he
                        remembered his promise and restrained himself.
                    "Ah, yes, Humphreys," said Governor Rutledge. "I had
                        forgotten. Captain Alton, this is Mr. Humphreys who has been engaged in our secret service, and
                        he brings me some important information. After supper we will hear in detail what he has to
                        tell. You are famished now, I know. Come," and with  that the governor led the way to the dining-room.
                    At the table the man Humphreys, or whatever else his name was, acted his part in a
                        way that excited Roger's admiration in the highest degree. He not only betrayed nothing
                        of his former acquaintance with the young man, but asked him in the most natural way imaginable,
                        if he was a native of South Carolina, if he had served before, in what district he lived, and
                        various other questions of the kind, which one gentleman might ask another under such
                        circumstances. As for Roger, he had great difficulty in preserving his gravity.
                    "Captain Alton has been in the country a very few months," remarked
                        Governor Rutledge, during the meal. "And indeed, his coming was a rather remarkable
                        one,not to say romantic, and even heroic. He was so full of patriotism, that, failing to find a
                        proper ship coming to Charles Town, he actually crossed from the Bahamas to Carolina in an open
                        boat!"
                    "Indeed!" exclaimed Humphreys, with perfectly simulated
                        astonishment. "You must have found the voyage a difficult, as well as a perilous one,
                        did you not?"
                    "Somewhat so," replied Roger. "In fact,  I hardly think I should be here to discuss it but
                        for the skill of a companion I had with me, a seamanwho navigated my boat for me and ran her
                        into an obscure little inlet during the blackest and stormiest night I ever knew."
                    "A good sailor he must have been," said the imperturbable
                        Humphreys. "I should like to know him. The skill of such a man, and his knowledge of
                        the coast would be invaluable to me if I could persuade him to join me in some of my
                        expeditions. Do you happen to know where he is at present?"
                    The cool assurance with which Humphreys asked this question startled Roger into
                        something like resentment. "I wonder," he thought, "if this man
                        actually hopes to deceive me as well as the governor, and to persuade me that I am mistaken with
                        regard to his own identity!" He glanced at the face of his questioner, but could read
                        nothing in the frank, innocent expression of the countenance, expect an apparently real wish to
                        know more about the matter of which they were talking. Without removing his eyes from the face
                        Roger replied:
                    "I have reason to think that he is a dead man now."
                    "Ah," said the other, without a sign of emotion,  "that is unlucky. Such a fellow might have
                        been extremely useful in the secret service."
                    "Not more so, I should say, than you yourself are," replied Roger,
                        with some little hidden malice. "I imagine you have special gifts for secret
                        service."
                    "Thank you," said the man, without appearing to see anything more
                        in the remark than any stranger might. "You do me honor. I believe I have some
                        qualifications, in the way of a knowledge of the country and some other things, for service of
                        that kind. I have an earnest desire to help on the common cause, at any rate, and as for
                        courage, life is not apt to be especially precious to a man who has as little as I have to live
                        for."
                    The meal over, the three retired to a private room upstairs, first placing a sentinel
                        upon the landing of the stairs with orders to prevent eavesdropping.
                    Here Humphreys told his story, of which Rutledge had as yet heard only a synopsis.
                    "I have been in the British camp for a week or more, and have found means of
                        ascertaining what Prevost's plans are. General Lincoln is already moving up the
                        Savannah River, intending to invade Georgia, and the moment he gets  well away from Purysburg on the road to Augusta, Prevost will cross the river
                        in force, and march upon Charles Town, which he hopes to surprise and capture before Lincoln can
                        come to its relief. The only thing that stands in his way is General Moultrie's small
                        force near Purysburg and that is not sufficient even to check the British advance in any serious
                        way. If Prevost can prevent news of his movement from reaching Lincolnor if Lincoln persists in
                        his campaign in spite of it, as he may do or even in the event of Lincoln proving prudent and
                        falling back from Augusta to Charles Town, it seems almost certain that Prevost can get here a
                        day or two in advance. He hopes to throw himself into the city before Lincoln can arrive,
                        fortify it, and await reinforcements from New York. This is his plan. Of its merits you,
                        Governor Rutledge, can judge. What measures should be taken to meet it of course it is not for
                        me to suggest; but if I can be of any service as a courier or otherwise, pray command me. If
                        not, I will find a way to make my rifle of some use until you need me again."
                    "Wait one moment," said Rutledge. "How did you learn of
                        this? I ask, you understand, for the purpose of ascertaining how  trustworthy your source of information is, and not at all because I doubt
                        you. You have proved your faithfulness too effectively for that."
                    "I got my information directly from Prevost's own mouth, by what I
                        should call lying, if it were not done in the service of my country against a very perfidious
                        foe. I went to him as a tory resident of South Carolina, and after laying before him a minute
                        account of some persecutions I professed to have suffered at the hands of the whigs, I was
                        commanded by him to return and encourage my fellow tories with the promise of a speedy invasion,
                        the plan for which he gave me as I have given it to you. His frankness in the matter astonished
                        me, and is the only thing that causes me doubt. I do not at all know why he should thus indicate
                        his plans, even in hints and suggestions, for of course he did not talk to me otherwise, but I
                        am perfectly satisfied that my understanding of what he purposes is correct."
                    "Thank you," replied Rutledge. "Now I leave your action to
                        your own judgment. Remember, I want trustworthy information. Get it in whatever way you can and
                        report to me. You are supplied with money, I believe?"
                    
                    "Yes, sir, and you shall hear from me. When Prevost moves it will be
                        desirable to know his precise strength, I suppose?"
                    "By all means, if you can learn it."
                    "I shall learn it, sir, and when he appears on the Ashley River you shall
                        know as well as he the figures of his morning reports."
                    When Humphreys had left, Roger turned, and looking Governor Rutledge straight in the
                        eyes asked. "What do you know of that man that you trust him so implicitly?"
                    "I know the man and something of his history," answered Rutledge.
                        "I could easily convince you of his trustworthiness, if I might tell you some things
                        which I may not. Pardon me, I am not free to say more than this, but if at any time you have
                        occasion for a trusty, verbal messenger, remember that you may repose as implicit confidence in
                        that man's truthfulness, intelligence, and patriotism as in my own. It may be of
                        advantage to you to know this. Now to business. General Lincoln is marching towards Augusta. It
                        is absolutely necessary that he should know of Prevost's plans, and I do not care to
                        risk a communication in writing. I must send you personally at daybreak to find him and tell him
                        of what we have just now learned. I shall go at once to  Orangeburg, embody the militia there, and march immediately to Charles Town.
                        Leave your servant and spare horse here. I will take them with me to Orangeburg, and you can
                        join me there after finding Lincoln. Lose no time, however, as every hour is precious. On your
                        journey, going and coming, if you find militia organized anywhere, order them at once to
                        Orangeburg to join me. We must be prepared to keep Prevost out of Charles Town until Lincoln can
                        get here. Can you be off by daylight?"
                    "I can leave at midnight, if you wish. My horses are in good condition, and
                        will have had six hours' rest by that time."
                    "Good. But won't it tax your horse pretty severely, and so delay
                        you in the end?"
                    "You don't know Bullet, Governor. He is a demon and needs breaking
                        down to take him. If this journey teaches him to behave like a reasonable animal, it will
                        accomplish more than anything I've tried yet."
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    A first SMELL of GUN-POWDER
                    CAPTAIN ALTON was in no very enviable frame of mind when his unmanageable horse
                        leaped ashore from the ferryboat, on the south side of the Ashley River, a little after
                        midnight. It was raining, for one thing, and the blinding glare of the frequent lightning served
                        to make his progress somewhat difficult. He was a bold rider, however, and just now a rather
                        desperate young man, as well. Somehow, the meeting with Humphreys and the additional mystery the
                        man had contrived to throw around himself had the effect of irritating Roger far more than he
                        was accustomed to permit small matters to do.
                    For reasons which we could not explain to himself, he had come to feel that this man
                        Humphreys was in some fashion connected with the secrets which his father was keeping from him,
                        and this reminded him of the conversation  he had so
                        lately held at Alton House, which, the more he thought of it, became more and more a source of
                        almost unbearable annoyance. It was provoking beyond endurance to be baffled in this way by
                        mysteries at every turn, to be met even by his father with vague hints of inscrutable things,
                        instead of the frank confidence with which he had always been treated; to be told that he must
                        not and could not marry Helen Vargave, and to be refused even a hint of a reason why; to
                        discover that the obstacle in the way was in some manner connected with that which thwarted
                        Charles Barnegal's suit for Jacqueline's handall these things vexed and
                        angered, while they depressed him.
                    "I'll burst these bonds," he exclaimed aloud in his anger.
                        "I will not be the sport of a lot of fancies. I will refuse to govern myself by hints
                        and innuendoes. I will not listen to half told tales, or suffer the secrets of other people to
                        bring ruin upon my life. Helen Vargave is a gentlewoman, my equal, and she loves me. I am a man
                        of full age, able to take care of my own honor, and to manage my own affairs. I will go to
                        Helen, tell her the truth so far as I am graciously permitted to know it, and I will marry her
                        in spite of all the mysterious monomaniacs  in the
                        Carolinas. Then I shall have a right to protect her good name as I do my own, and if the human
                        tiger of my father's fears dares breathe aught to her disadvantage, I will avenge her
                        as a gentleman should, and I will make the vengeance terrible enough to prevent any repetition
                        of the wrong."
                    This was all very well as a resolution, but there remained to depress him the
                        unexplained words with which Colonel Alton had closed the conversation on this subject,
                    
                        "I give you no command,the engagement will be broken soon
                            enough without that."
                    
                    He wondered what that meant, and, imagining all sorts of things, managed to work
                        himself into a very uncomfortable state of mind before the morning broke. He breakfasted in the
                        woods upon the contents of his saddle-bags, and pressed on until noon, when he halted to give
                        Bullet something to eat at a wayside hostelry. Here he determined to remain during the two or
                        three hottest hours of the day, and discover, if he could, something of General
                        Lincoln's whereabouts. That the army was already in motion he knew, and if he could
                        learn precisely when it left Purysburg, he might save some hours certainly and possibly some
                        days in his effort to come up with it. After seeing his  horse properly fed and groomed, therefore, he sat down in the broad piazza of
                        the tavern, and bade the servantwho brought him the ready-mixed dram of the time and countryseek
                        the landlord, and tell him a guest wished to speak with him.
                    Boniface came out in his shirt sleeves with a long-stemmed pipe in his mouth and
                        welcomed the traveler. Roger made his inquiries, and having gathered such information as he
                        could with respect to roads and other matters of interest, began asking his host a variety of
                        questions on more general topics, in pursuance of a purpose he had formed to learn as much as
                        possible of the country and people wherever he should go, with an eye to the possible usefulness
                        of such information in future campaigning. The landlord was garrulous, as it becomes all rural
                        landlords to be, and was not long in giving Roger a brief outline of the history of every family
                        in the country for thirty or forty miles around, including his own.
                    "If you'd got here an hour sooner'n you did, stranger,
                        you'd a met just a little the finest old gentleman in South Carolina, as I count
                        gentlemen," said the inn-keeper presently.
                    "Ah, then I am sorry I was so late in coming," said Roger.
                        "But who was he, pray? "
                    
                    "It was Colonel Geoffrey Alton, of Alton House, and a finer gentleman I
                        don't believe this country holds. He's none o' your paper money,
                        savin' sort. He travels in his carriage, if he does travel by himself, and
                        here's the sort o' money he pays his way with." As he said this, the
                        enthusiastic landlord drew from his pocket two gold pieces and displayed them in his open palm.
                        The host's enthusiasm over the golden souvenirs of his late guest's visit
                        served to distract his attention from Roger's face, and that young gentleman had time
                        to suppress all manifestations of astonishment before asking, with an assumed air of meagre
                        interest:
                    "Where was the colonel going? "
                    "Now look here, stranger," said Boniface, with an injured tone,
                        "do you take me for the sort o' man that pries into gentlemen's
                        private affairs with impertinent questions? I answer questions, but I don't ask them.
                        If a gentleman pays his bill I bid him God speed, without wantin' to know which way
                        he's goin'."
                    "Oh, certainly," said Roger, with assumed indifference. "I
                        quite understand the delicacy of your position. I thought perhaps Colonel Alton might have
                        mentioned his destination of his own accord. That was all. He is a friend  of my own, and I should have been much pleased to meet him
                        here."
                    "Your friend, is he? Well, if you want to know where he's gone, I
                        reckon I can find out. Enoch! Enoch! Come here, do you heah?" This last to the negro
                        hostler, who, without answering, came to the steps in front of his master.
                    "Did you pump Colonel Alton's driveras I told you never to doand
                        find out where he was going?"
                    "I dun ax de drivah, sah, but he didn't rightly know, hissef. He
                        say his mastah little bit crusty, an' he dussent ax him any questions, but he say he
                        spec' dey's gwine down to Lonsdale, de widdah Vargave's place,
                        an' dat's all he know'd about it."
                    Mr. Roger did small justice to the landlord's dinner after receiving this
                        intelligence, and when Bullet had eaten the oats and fodder given him, the young man mounted and
                        continued his journey, with a depressed feeling of coming ill upon him. He knew that his
                        father's journey to Lonsdale boded no good to him, and he now began to understand the
                        words over which he had been puzzling all the morning.
                    His powerful horse was not yet reduced to proper subjection, and with an impulse
                        which  all horsemen who have ever ridden with a
                        burden of depression upon them will understand, he plunged spurs into the wild
                        creature's sides and gave free rein to his furious impetuosity. Maddened by this
                        application of the armed heelthe first he had ever known of it the animal sprang forward with
                        heedless, headlong fury, and the first awakening Roger had from the half-trance into which he
                        had fallen, was produced by a sudden cry of "Halt there!" and the hiss of half
                        a dozen bullets around his head. Mechanically he drew his sword without pausing to think of the
                        odds against him, and was on the point of charging a little body of British regulars twenty
                        yards in front of him, when suddenly he heard the familiar voice of Humphreys just behind him.
                    "Don't charge, but run at your best speed you have
                        dispatches."
                    The words were spoken in the man's uniformly quiet tone, without seeming
                        emotion, and equally without a sign of haste. But their very quietude startled Roger into
                        instant consciousness of his situation. Turning he fled, with Humphreys at his side.
                    "Spur your horse, and lie down as low as you can," said Humphreys,
                        setting the example,  and as the words left his lips
                        the fire of the whole advance guard whistled around them.
                    "Follow me," said Humphreys, plunging into the swamp at the side of
                        the road, picking his way through the dense underbrush and over the treacherous bogs with a
                        precision and certainty which argued a minute acquaintance with the place. The two were soon
                        many miles away from the road in the midst of a vast swamp, and knowing themselves safe from
                        further pursuit, they slackened speed and rode quietly until night approached.
                    "There's a little high ground, just ahead, on which we'd
                        better spend the night, I think," said Humphreys. "In the morning I will pilot
                        you out of the swamp, and put you on the road in pursuit of General Lincoln. You must find him
                        pretty quickly, however, to do any good. You see the British are already advancing in force, and
                        will be before Charles Town in two days. That was their extreme left wing that you encountered.
                        The main body is moving by a road nearer the coast, and the advance has halted at Pocotaligo, to
                        wait for the rest to come up. You can say to General Lincoln, if you choose, that they are
                        moving in full force with all their baggage and ammunition trains."
                    
                    Roger readily guessed the man's desire to avoid all discussion of personal
                        matters, and he respected it as a gentleman must. The two were weary enough to sleep soundly,
                        and in the morning Humphreys guided Roger to the western extremity of the swamp, where they
                        separated.
                    Roger was not long in learning that Lincoln had already been advised of
                        Prevost's movement, and that after detaching a small body under Harris to re-enforce
                        Moultrie, the American general had crossed into Georgia, and was now marching down the right
                        bank of the river. It was apparently General Lincoln's purpose to threaten Savannah, in
                        the hope that Prevost might thus be compelled to beat a hasty retreat, or failing in that, he
                        thought it not impossible that he might actually recapture Savannah, while the British should be
                        engaged in besieging Charles Town. If he could do that, he would march thence to Charles Town,
                        and place Prevost between two fires.
                    This movement of Lincoln's down the Savannah River had brought him within
                        about a score or so of miles from the place at which Roger had parted with Humphreys, and by
                        allowing Bullet to push forward at a gait agreeable to that energetic animal, and consonant  with his rather exaggerated notions of what
                        constitutes a proper travelling speed, Roger was able to eat a midday dinner with the commander
                        of the American army. Here he learned the nature and purpose of Lincoln's movement, and
                        after dinner was detained by Lincoln till near nightfall, before he hastened away in the
                        direction of Orangeburg, with a message from Lincoln to Rutledge.
                    "Tell Rutledge," said the general, "that if Prevost does
                        not retreat I shall attempt the capture of Savannah, unless I find it impracticable. If Prevost
                        persists, however, I shall not waste many days around Savannah. Whether I take the city, or
                        abandon the idea of trying, I shall march upon Charles Town very shortly. Moultrie with his
                        Continentals, and Rutledge with the militia, can surely keep the British out of the town for a
                        week at least, and by that time I shall fall upon the enemy's rear, and, between the
                        two, we should be able to grind him to powder. Tell Rutledge he has only to make a determined
                        stand."
                    With this encouraging message in charge, Roger dashed away on the long journey to
                        Orangeburg.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    A LOVE LETTER
                    HOWEVER pressing may be affairs of state, especially to enthusiastic young men
                        engaged in a war for all that human nature holds dear, affairs of a nearer and dearer kind
                        insist sometimes upon their superior claim to attention. When Roger Alton reached General
                        Lincoln's headquarters, he found six or seven hours of comparative leisure at his
                        command.
                    The young man employed the time of waiting in writing a letter to Helen Vargave.
                        Fortunately, for the purposes of this story, the missive has been reverently preserved in family
                        archives, and I am permitted by those who now control it to give it here.
                    "My father has said strange and inexplicable things to me," he
                        wrote. "He has told me that you and I can never marry, but he has not told me why. He
                        has not even forbidden the banns. He tells me there is no woman in Carolina  whom he would so gladly welcome as his daughter, as he would you, no
                        woman whom he would so rejoice to see mistress of Alton House. Yet he tells me our dear dream
                        can never be. He has intimated that you will yourself forbid, and I learned only to-day that he
                        has gone to Lonsdale to bring this horrible thing, as I suppose, to your attention. I write,
                        therefore, to say the thought that is in me. I know not what my father is at this moment saying
                        to you. But I know this, dear Helen, that when I comforted you out there in the boat and you
                        gave me your love, you became MY WIFE before God and all his angels. All that is essential to
                        marriage is mutual love, and whether or not you are persuaded to say, as my father expects, that
                        you will never consent to our formal and legal marriage, I at least, shall hold myself loyal
                        until death to the bond that already exists between us. By all that is holy in marriage, by all
                        that is pure, by all that God intended when he gave Eve to Adam, you are my wife, and will
                        always be so, not 'until death us shall part' as the formal service hath it,
                        but rather until death shall unite us more completely in a higher life where the shallow
                        conventionalities of this probationary time shall be swept away.
                    
                    "It is my resolution, dear, to seal the marriage of our souls by legal and
                        churchly bonds whenever you shall consent to do so, regardless of any man's objections
                        or any man's threats, or any human being's consequential suffering; and, if
                        you forbid that, to hold myself yours and you mine in a higher than formal union a soul marriage
                        of unselfish, unquestioning love, that seeks no sanction and asks no reward.
                    "I do not ask you to reply to this letter. It may be inconvenient for you to
                        set down on paper what you would say to me if I could be by your side to hear. But at any rate I
                        want you to know what my attitude in this matter is and what it must always be. A woman such as
                        you does not love except with all of soul that she possesses. When you permitted me to cares you
                        as your lover, you became mine my wifeby a stronger and holier tie than any that the law knows
                        or any that the church recognizes. And I, in my turn, when I sought your love and secured it,
                        bound myself beyond all possibilityall desireof recall. From a love such as ours there is no
                        withdrawal. In such a love there is no reserve. To such a love there is no end.
                    "As I have said, I do not exact an answer to this letter. I well understand
                        how your  maidenly reserve might shrink from the task
                        of writing a reply. I shall wait until I can hear from your own lips what answer you have to
                        make, and meantime I shall know in my heart what your answer is. For I have not misjudged the
                        soul of the woman I love.
                    "And now, adieu! I have a long and hurried journey to make in behalf of our
                        country's cause. If you are moved at any time to write me a line, send it to Alton
                        House. I will send thither from time to time for letters. I am in the way of danger just now, of
                        course, and perhaps a British bullet, or an ill-parried sabre-stroke may settle for us all
                        questions of the forms of marriage. But the precious fact of our marriage will remain to the
                        ultimate end of eternity itself. To such love as ours death is a trifling, temporary incident.
                        The love itself is immortal."
                    By one of those coincidences that seemed always to govern Humphreys's
                        appearances, that person presented himself in answer to Roger's request of General
                        Lincoln for a trusty messenger by whom to send his letter to Helen. When the man read the
                        superscription he seemed for a moment about to fall from his horse, but, recovering himself, he
                        said:
                    "My duties as a scout will not permit me  to go in person to Lonsdale. But I will see to it that one as trusty as I am
                        shall deliver your letter, Captain Alton. I make myself personally responsible for
                        that."
                    "Thank you!" replied the young man. "I trust you
                        implicitly."
                    "Thank you for that, in my turn," said the man, with a good deal
                        more of emotion than the occasion seemed to call for. "You will never know,"
                        he added, "how much your confidence means to me."
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    A BATTLE iu the DARK
                    THE people of Charles Town were naturally in a state of intense excitement when it
                        became known that the British were advancing upon their city with serious intent. They quite
                        well understood that the only force opposing Prevost's advance was a small body
                        composed in part of Continentals, and in part of untrained militiamenthe whole numbering very
                        much less than one-half of Prevost's drilled, disciplined, and war-hardened army. The
                        city was scarcely at all prepared to resist an attack by land. All that had been done in the way
                        of constructing defensive works had been done for the purpose of resisting an attack by sea. On
                        the land side the way was apparently open to any invader who might appear.
                    The city lay upon a narrow tongue of land formed by the Ashley and Cooper Rivers,
                        which, uniting at the lower point of the town, 
                        formed the harbor. If Prevost had known his own mind, and had acted with reasonable promptitude
                        after he began his march, he might easily have made himself master of Carolina's
                        capital. Luckily for the Carolinians, the British commander had that worst of vices in a
                        military mana habit of indecision and hesitation. About half way between Savannah and Charles
                        Town, at Pocotaligo, he halted; and for three days lay there, uncertain whether to advance in
                        accordance with his original purpose or retreast in view of Lincoln's movement against
                        Savannah. So far Lincoln's strategy had proved effective, for without doubt it was
                        Prevost's fear that the Americans might capture Savannah, which led him thus to
                        hesitate.
                    While he was waiting there, uncertain whether to push on or to withdraw, the vigorous
                        Carolinians were getting that which they needed more than all elsenamely, time for
                        preparationand under inspiration of Rutledge's tireless energy, they made most
                        excellent use of it. The houses in the suburbs above the city were unhesitatingly burned away.
                        Every man who could handle a pick, or a shovel, or any other implement with which fortifications
                        are made, was kept at work by night and by day, and when, on the 9th of May, Prevost's
                             bayonets glistened in the sunlight south of the
                        Ashley, a strong line of redoubts stretched across the neck of land between the two rivers, and
                        Charles Town was shut in. Only one avenue of communication between the city and the country
                        without remained open, and that was inaccessible to the enemy It was a ferry across the Cooper
                        River, north of the city, while the British were operating from the south.
                    But troops were needed as well as earth-works, and the delay which had given time for
                        the erection of fortifications, had served also to bring defenders to the capital. Almost at the
                        moment of Prevost's appearance came Moultne with his little army, and Rutledge with the
                        militia from Orangeburg. The danger was still great, however. Prevost's force
                        outnumbered the total garrison and consisted of British regulars.
                    The Americans were unlucky enough to have two chiefs dividing between them the
                        authority which should have been exercised by only one. As a commander in the Continental army,
                        Moultrie of course had control of all the Continentals present, but Rutledge, who, as we know,
                        had been invested by the legislature with almost dictatorial powers, asserted and maintained his
                        right to command the militia. This  situation was one
                        tending strongly to confusion and disaster. But the two men were equally patriotic, and each was
                        disposed to aid and co-operate with the other. They held an informal consultation, and it was
                        agreed that they should act together in making resistance to the utmost, in spite of the clamor
                        of timid citizens who, fearing a bombardment, and despairing of successful defence, pleaded with
                        the governor to surrender the town. It was at this time that Roger Alton arrived with the
                        message from General Lincoln.
                    Now that they knew that Lincoln would speedily march to the relief of Charles Town,
                        the problem set Moultrie and Rutledge was simply that of keeping the British at bay until the
                        main army should arrive. Whether or not this could be accomplished was a matter of serious
                        doubt. Prevost's hesitation at Pocotaligo had given them opportunity, as we have seen,
                        to make preparation, but had he acted promptly even now, he could have thrown himself into
                        Charles Town without much difficulty. He again hesitated, however. He appeared on the south bank
                        of the Ashley on the ninth of May, and lay there inactive until the eleventh before crossing
                        with his advance guard and demanding the surrender of the town. He was  promptly and furiously attacked by Count Pulaski, whom he repulsed
                        with great slaughter. It soon became apparent to both sides that the British could carry the
                        works by storm whenever they should have stomach for that bloody kind of work. This, with the
                        additional fact kind of work. This, with the additional fact that the enemy's guns were
                        near enough to bombard the city with destructive effect, led to negotiations for surrender. It
                        was the cue of the Americans to protract these negotiations as much as possible in the hope that
                        relief might come in time to save the town, as in the event it did.
                    News was brought during the night to the timid Prevost that Lincoln was near at hand
                        with his army, and before morning the British had abandoned their positions and retired to the
                        south of the Ashley River. Lincoln was still south of them, however, and directly in the line of
                        their retreat towards Savannah. Not daring to meet him on ground of his own choosing, Prevost
                        made a flank movement to the Sea Islands that skirt the coast. At Stono Ferry, on
                        John's Island, he strongly fortified himself, and for more than a month the two armies
                        confronted each other, neither caring to risk a decisive action.
                    Roger Alton had remained with Rutledge 
                        during the brief struggle before Charles Town, but when the British retired to John's
                        Island, he asked and obtained his chief's permission to join General Lincoln with such
                        a force of volunteers as he might be able to raise for that purpose. Going among the militiamen
                        who were preparing to return to their homesafter the manner prevalent among militiamen at that
                        timehe collected a band of about twenty mounted men, volunteers, and with this little command he
                        reported the next day at Stono Ferry.
                    His men were fellows of restless spirit, and great daring; men far less valuable to a
                        community in time of peace than were the more orderly militiamen who assembled upon occasion to
                        meet and fight an enemy, but who returned to their ploughs the moment the immediate necessity of
                        fighting was past. Roger's men were young fellows who liked adventure, and relished the
                        excitement and uncertainty of that partisan warfare which was just then beginning to develop
                        itself, and which later, under Marion and Sumter, achieved so much as to write new chapters into
                        military history, and the books of tactics. With these rough riders whom Roger had gathered
                        about him, there was no love for the idleness of camp life.
                    
                    Their whole idea of the war was that the enemy had no business to be in their
                        country, and must be constantly annoyed so long as he should remain there. This they felt ought
                        to be their task to attend to, and their leader was distinctly like-minded with themselves.
                    Thus, weary of inactivity, even in prospect, Roger despatched Marlborough to Alton
                        House with letters, and instantly applied to General Lincoln for permission to act independently
                        against such straggling bodies of the enemy as he might be able to find. General Lincoln highly
                        approved of this mode of warfare, the more especially as the British were availing themselves of
                        the opportunity afforded by the pause to pillage the Island plantations and to commit
                        depredations of every sort upon the defenceless inhabitants. Among such depredations, the most
                        damaging was that of invading plantations and, besides carrying off such spoils as might be
                        found there, capturing the entire force of negro slaves and taking them away. This form of
                        depredation was not committed with even a pretence of humanity to excuse it. It was no part of
                        the British purpose, then or afterwards, during the long, dark days of the struggle in Carolina,
                        to carry any of the negro slaves into freedom. They were sent instead to  British plantations and public works in the West India Islands, and
                        into a servitude more cruel than any that the American mind at any period in history has
                        tolerated.
                    To interrupt these forays, to make the occupation of the Sea Islands as uncomfortable
                        as possible to the enemy, to capture his pickets and scouting parties, and generally to keep up
                        that wearing, night and day annoyance which organized troops dread far more than they do
                        systematic battlewas the task that Roger Alton had undertaken.
                    Crossing from the mainland to the island with his little force under cover of
                        darkness, young Alton put himself in communication with such of the inhabitants as he could
                        certainly trust, and prepared to strike at every point where striking promised results. As his
                        men were well mounted and accustomed all their lives to hard riding, retreat was always open to
                        them, in the event of failure, and they were so desperately in earnestas unpaid soldiers in
                        their own causethat their young chief trusted confidently to their patriotism and courage as
                        full equivalents of the discipline and training which they lacked. For nearly a month he
                        remained on the island and its insular neighbors, attacking small posts, capturing pickets  and foraging parties, and keeping the enemy in a
                        state of perpetual uneasiness. His prisoners were sent to the mainland as soon as taken, and he
                        was left free to continue his work unembarrassed by their care.
                    The British commanders on the island made more than one determined and well-planned
                        attempt to capture the "Mosquitoes" as they called Roger's little
                        handful of men, but by constant vigilance and frequent changing of position, the young partisan
                        managed to baffle them to the last. He moved cautiously and quickly, and for the most part by
                        night, hiding away during the day in swamps and other places where he was not likely to be
                        found.
                    On one very dark night, about a month after these operations had begun, as he was
                        pushing across the island to escape the attack of a strong body sent out to capture him, he
                        turned to the man riding by his side whom he could not distinguish in the darkness and said:
                    "There's the river ahead. We must cross there if we can and wait
                        for daylight Ride on, and see if there are any British there and report to me here."
                    "It is not necessary, sir," replied the man. "I can report
                        now."
                    "What, Humphreys! you here! Where have  you come from, and how have you found me?"
                    "There's little time for talking now, sir. I have been on the
                        island frequently since you came, and have seen you a dozen times. I have news for you to-night,
                        and I came to bring it. Our people are going to attack the enemy in force at the ferry to-morrow
                        or next day. If you want to be in the action, you must make haste to get off the island, but you
                        will find a lot of trouble in doing it, I am afraid. They have made up their minds to catch you
                        this time and have posted men everywhere for that purpose. But there are two courses open to
                        you. There's a little piece of swamp not very strongly guarded just below the ferry
                        which you may possibly be able to slip through, and if not, you can keep out of sight until the
                        fight begins. Then there will be a general rush for the battlefield, I take it."
                    "Is there any force on the river just ahead of us here?"
                    "Yes, sir; a hundred men."
                    "Cavalry?"
                    "No, sir; on foot."
                    "They have warning of our presence or approach?"
                    "I think not, sir, but all the river guards  under special orders to look out for you."
                    "How are they posted?"
                    "I do not know, but if you will halt here briefly, I will reconnoitre
                        them."
                    "Very well. Do so, and report as soon as may be, if you please."
                    With that Roger halted his band, and turning to one of them said: "Take
                        three men with you, and ride back half a mile. Make a little circuit, and return at once, as I
                        shall be ready to move by that time. We must halt here fifteen minutes, and must not be
                        surprised from the rear. Reconnoitre in that direction sharply."
                    In less than a quarter of an hour, Humphreys returned, and Roger talked with him
                        apart in a low tone.
                    "Can we force our way past them, think you, and make a crossing?"
                        he asked eagerly.
                    "That is for you to say, sir. If you ask my opinion, I should say not. They
                        number at least a hundred men, and are on the alert. They have posted two lines of guards about
                        a hundred yards apart, and the main body is resting on its arms in line right across the road.
                        We could push past the guards, of course, but they would fire in time to bring the rest to their
                             feet, and then we should have to fight them on
                        their own ground. That is the situation, sir."
                    Just as he had finished speaking, the scouts returned from the rear at a rapid gait.
                        Roger heard their report. It was to the effect that a commanding force of the enemy was closing
                        in upon his little band from that direction.
                    "Resume your places in the ranks," Roger said. Then approaching the
                        line he quietly gave the order to mount. "Attention, men," he said.
                        "I have something to say to you. The enemy is making a determined effort to catch us
                        to-night, and has honored us by sending two or three hundred men after twenty volunteers. Just
                        ahead of usnot half a mile awaylies the stream, and the crossing is guarded by about one hundred
                        infantry men, well posted, with two lines of guards out, the main body sleeping on arms in line
                        of battle, ready to receive us. If we attempt to make the crossing, we must fight them without a
                        chance of taking them by surprise, but it seems there is now no help for it. Another and much
                        larger body, our scouts report, has cut off our retreat, and is gradually advancing in a
                        semi-circle in our rear to hem us in on the river. We might possibly escape as individuals by
                        separating and  hiding, but I for one am not yet
                        ready to play the part of a hare. I am going to attack the force on
                            the bank, and if there's a man among you who is not willing to follow me, he
                        may ride out of the ranks."
                    "We will follow you, Captain," said all in a breath.
                    "Good! and I thank you for it. I want the two best mounted men among you
                        first. "Two men rode out to receive orders." Humphreys," said Roger,
                        "I want you to take these two men with you. Ride around to the south there and attack
                        the pickets at that point. Crowd up as close to them as you can, and give them half a dozen
                        shots, but scatter a little first, so that they may not be able to locate you, or guess your
                        numbers. The moment you have delivered your shots, ride back here like the deuce and join us. I
                        will attack here as soon as their attention is concentrated upon you, and before they find out
                        that you have left their front on the south, we will be upon them like lightning on the north.
                        We may thus get the advantage of a surprise after all. Now men, attention! We cannot afford to
                        take prisoners to-night. The enemy outnumbers us five to one in our front, and twenty or thirty
                        to one in our rear. We are making this attack to get out of a trap  not to take prisoners. We going into a desperate fight, and every man must
                        fight desperately. Fight always toward the river bank, and remember that our object is to form a
                        line between the red coats and the river. Accomplish that and I will take care of the rest.
                        Forward, march!"
                    Silently they rode forward in the darkness, Roger fifty yards in advance, until he
                        discovered the first line of guards just ahead of him. Then whirling, he retraced his steps a
                        little way, and halted his men to await the proper moment of attack. A profounder silence than
                        that in which they sat in their saddles it is not easy to imagine. Roger heard even the ticking
                        of his watch as he listened for Humphreys's opening shots.
                    Minutes dragged with intolerable slownessthen, "Bang-bang-bang-bang-bang!
                        Pop-pop-pop-pop-pop!" rattled the guns to the south. Humphreys had done his work well,
                        and the enemy was wasting whole volleys in the thicket whence the first shots had come. As the
                        scout and his two companions came running their horses to join the main body Roger called in a
                        hoarse whisper, "Now for it, boys!" and the next moment the little band rode
                        over the guards just in front, and through the inner 
                        picket line, receiving a shot or two. They fell upon the main body as the thunderbolt falls. The
                        night was pitchy dark, and the flash of the British muskets, while it served to reveal the
                        position and strength of the enemy to young Alton, only blinded the British to his weakness.
                        Right and left fell the sabre strokes, the sturdy horses riding down every foeman who stood in
                        their way. After the first volley was fired, the furious onset threw the British line into
                        confusion before the muskets could be re-loaded. Half a minute later the young
                        commander's voice rang out on the river bank:
                    "Attention! Form line! by twos, forward, march!"
                    A splashing in the water, then a scattering fire from the astonished British, and the
                        opposite shore was gained. The fight had not lasted two minutes, but two of Roger's men
                        were missing and wellnigh every sabre showed a dark red stain when the light of morning broke
                        upon the little band.
                    Roger Alton had learned his trade as a partisan warrior.
                
                
                
                    XX
                    WHICH maidenly MODESTY MAKES very BRIEF
                    PERHAPS something of spirit was lent to young Captain Alton's fight by the
                        riverside, by a letter which Marlborough, returning from Alton House, had brought to him that
                        day. It was Helen's reply to the missive he had sent from Gen. Lincoln's
                        headquarters in Georgia.
                    She wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Your letter, Roger, is dearer to me than I have words
                                            to tall. You judge rightly when you excuse me from replying, on the ground
                                            that maidenly reserve must forbid me to write all that is in my mind and
                                            heart. Yet I must tell you that Col. Alton's communications through
                                            my mother to me, have indeed rendered impossible the fulfilment, now or
                                            hereafter, of the dear dream in which we have indulged. I cannot tell you
                                            why, until I can tell you orally. Indeed I cannot fully tell you why. even
                                            then, because I do not myself quite understand. But I know enough to know
                                            what my duty is, and, sadly terrible as it is, I shall do it as bravely as
                                            you are doing yours as a soldier. You would not love me if I failed in that!
                                        
                                        "But what you say to me in your letter is dearer to me
                                            than life, dearer than any happiness. My soul responds to every sentiment
                                            you have set down. I can never take back the love I gave you that day in the
                                            boat out there on the sunny sea. Fate decrees that I shall never be yours in
                                            the contemplation of the world, but love is superior to fate, and while
                                            consciousness endures, in time or in eternity, I shall always be yoursby the
                                            precious name that you have so lovingly given meyour wife.
                                        
                                            "Helen."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                    That was all. Is it any wonder that after reading the note, Captain Alton was in a
                        mood for very hard fighting?
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    IN which CAPTAIN ALTON meets the ENEMY and a FRIEND
                    IN the assault on the following day the Americans had the advantage for an hour, but
                        during the remaining twenty minutes of the fight the British succeeded in so concentrating their
                        forces as to drive the Americans back. Nevertheless, the advantage at the end of the day
                        remained with the Americans in this that the fight had demonstrated the fact that they were more
                        than a match for the force left on John's Island under Colonel Maitland, for by this
                        time, Prevost, with the main body of his army had retired to Savannah. The result of the action
                        was one which we should regard as curious in our day. It ended on the one hand in the retirement
                        of the British from the position which they had intended to hold, and on the other in the
                        practical dissolution of the American army; for the moment that the British began their retreat
                        upon Savannah, the American militiamen who 
                        constituted the bulk of Lincoln's army quitted their posts and started home to look
                        after their farming operations.
                    This was a common difficulty in all parts of the country throughout the Revolution.
                        No sooner had a general achieved a victory which, if vigorously followed up might bring about
                        important results, than his men went home and left him without an army capable of following it
                        up at all. Thus, a day or two after Lincoln had demonstrated on John's Island his
                        ability to crush Colonel Maitland, he was left with a mere handful of menabout half a modern
                        regimentas the only army under his command. Nevertheless, he ordered his cavalry to push the
                        rear guard of the retreating enemy as closely as it might, to harass their bivouacs and annoy
                        their picket posts as ceaselessly as possible.
                    In this work, Roger Alton's little command proved unusually efficient. It
                        had been trained to wily work, and wiliness now counted for as much as that high courage which
                        these men also had. All the way down the coast, while the cavalry of the regular army moved with
                        an orderly precision which the enemy could reckon upon and meet, the little band of partisans
                        dashed hither and thither in irregular fashion 
                        appearing at unexpected places, striking unlooked for blows that told against superior numbers,
                        and disappearing again so quickly as to suffer comparatively little harm in return. Roger had
                        received several recruits from among the militia after the battle at Stono Inlet, yet by the
                        time that the enemy paused at Port Royal, his force had been weakened by losses in skirmish
                        fighting until it now numbered only fifteen men besides himself.
                    It was with this little force that he made a final dash into the enemy's
                        camp, after orders had come from General Lincoln to cease the pursuit. This last dash was
                        inspired as much by bravado as by patriotism. Young Alton had so far accustomed himself to play
                        a bold game, and had met with so much success as the result of his audacity that it pleased him
                        now and then to do things which strict military science would characterize as utterly
                        injudicious; doing them merely by way of demonstrating the fact that, with troopers such as his,
                        he could do pretty much as he pleased.
                    In this last instance, he had ridden around on the enemy's flank which,
                        being unthreatened by any orderly force was left scantily guarded. It was just after nightfall,
                        and, after creeping as close as possible to the half-guarded camp,  Roger suddenly pushed through the thin picket line, and at the head of his
                        men dashed into and entirely across the camp of a strong British battalion. The thing was easily
                        enough done, but it was not easily undone. Having gout through the camp our young cavalier must
                        also go back again, for in front of him lay the entire body of the British army. Going back was
                        rendered difficult by the fact that the battalion which he had taken unawares was now thoroughly
                        on the alert. Nevertheless, the return charge had to be made, and Roger made it with all the
                        impetuosity that excited men, and hard-spurred horses, could command. When he rode at last into
                        the safety of the woodlands near at hand, five of his saddles were empty and Captain Alton
                        himself had a very uncomfortable pain in his left shoulder. A hurried examination of that part
                        of his anatomy made in the darkness of the night and woodland shadows disclosed to him the fact
                        that a half-ounce British bullet had passed through the muscles from in front and lodged
                        painfully in the joint which connected his arm with his body.
                    Retiring into the woodlands he met a small body of Continentals who had bivouacked
                        there for the night. His request for permission to join them around their camp fire was
                        instantly  granted of course and he had himself
                        scarcely dismounted when there came out of the darkness into the glare of the fire the familiar
                        form and friendly face of young Charles Barnegal. The meeting between the two friends was
                        eagerly gladsome, but Barnegal quickly saw that cadaverous look in the face of his friend which
                        always comes as the instant consequence of a painful bullet wound.
                    "You are hit," he said. "Where? Are you much
                        hurt?"
                    Roger replied that his shoulder ached, but that he did not know the extent of the
                        injury. He added: "Have you a surgeon here?"
                    Unfortunately there was none, and even had there been one, in that time and country
                        his skill would have been small, and his appliances of a sort ruder than any that modern surgery
                        dreams of. A bullet-broken arm, in those days meant amputation without ether or other
                        an-aesthetic, and for antiseptic treatment of the wound it meant the plunging of the lacerated
                        member into a bucket of almost boiling tar. It was rough treatment, but, in its unconscious way,
                        good. If the patient did not die of shock he was left in little danger of blood poisoning from a
                        wound which had been disinfected by scalding pine tar. It is to be remembered to the  credit of those great-grandfathers of ours who
                        achieved independence for us, that in all their fighting they risked not only the ordinary
                        perils of battle, but also extraordinary sufferings and dangers, owing to the absence of
                        anything like what is now known as surgery. It requires far less of courage to face the danger
                        of death with a cheerful mind than to brave the agony of wounds which must be dressed without
                        the aid of palliating medicament of any kind.
                    Young Barnegal almost dragged his friend to the fire for the sake of its light, and
                        stripping off his garments exposed the wound. He found the bullet wedged into the shoulder joint
                        in a way to cause the most excruciating pain. Its extraction was instantly necessary. And so
                        young Barnegal proceeded to extract it. With a horse fleam he slightly enlarged the wound, and
                        with a pair of blacksmith's pincers he succeeded, after several attempts, in
                        withdrawing the bullet and throwing his friend into a state of collapsed unconsciousness.
                    A gourd full of cold water dashed into his face and over his bosom quickly restored
                        the young man to himself. A stiff drink of brandy soon gave him strength enough to enable him to
                        retire with his friend into the woods where the latter had established a little bivouac of his
                             own. There Barnegal bound up his
                        friend's wound, and the two sat half the night and talked.
                    "But what brings you here, Charlie," said Roger after a time.
                        "I thought you had gone to the northward to join Washington."
                    "I started to do so," answered his friend "but upon
                        thinking the matter over I changed my mind. I was going to the northward only for the purpose of
                        finding fighting to do, and I found it more nearly at hand. I have been serving, since I saw
                        you, as a volunteer in the command with which I am now marching. Without going into the militia
                        or enlisting as a soldier. I have been fighting at my own expense wherever there was fighting to
                        do. I was with Lincoln on his campaign toward Augusta and have been with him ever since. I
                        changed my mind for a reason which the time has come for me to tell you. You know a little
                        somethingyou cannot help knowing a little somethingwith regard to the quarrel that I had with my
                        uncle. It is only due to you that I should tell you somewhat more. My quarrel with him is that
                        in a letter to your father he impugned the honor of my mother! Not that he charged her with any
                        conscious wrong-doingeven he could not make such an accusa  tion as thatbut he asserted that at the time she became my father's
                        wife my father was already a married man, that her marriage was therefore void from the
                        beginning and that I was a child born out of wedlock.
                    "I do not believe this slander, and the more I think of the matter, the more
                        confident I become that there is somewhere in the story a discoverable lie. I cannot imagine
                        that a man so lost as he is to all concern for the good opinion of his fellowmen, and a man also
                        so greedy of gain as he, would have hesitated to proclaim these factsif they were factsand to
                        claim as his own the inheritance I received from my father. If he could have proved the
                        statements he has now made to Colonel Alton, the courts would instantly have awarded him all the
                        property that I call my own. He holds the memory of my mother and my father in the utmost
                        detestation, and as for myself, you know how little love he bears me. I can conceive of no
                        influence that could have restrained him from the course I have suggested if his statements were
                        in any respect true.
                    "And yet, I cannot disprove those statements. Whether they be true or false,
                        the papers relating to them must unquestionably be in his possession if there are any papers. I
                             decided therefore to remain in Carolina, and to
                        do here whatever of fighting f might for my country in the hope that his excessive brandy
                        drinking may presently bring him into the valley of the shadow of death, and give me an
                        opportunity to vindicate my father's honor and my mother's purity.
                    "That alone I live for now. All else is lost to me in the world until that
                        task shall be accomplished. You see how it is, Roger. When he diesif I am at hand to claim the
                        administration as next of kin, there will be none to dispute my right. Until the baseness of my
                        birth is established in a court, I stand before the world not only as his next of kin, and
                        therefore his heir, but as the only kinsman he has alive. As such I shall take possession of his
                        house and estate the moment that he dies. I wish to go through his desks, his secretaries, his
                        private drawers and every secret receptacle there may be at The Live Oaks. I wish to explore
                        every nook and corner until I find every paper there that has ever been in his possession. Among
                        them I hope to find proof that he has lied or at least to find out whether he has any proof of
                        the truth of his statements. Then I shall publish both his lie and the refutation of it or the
                        fact that there is no proof of it, if the  refutation
                        is not there. That is what I live for now. That is why I have remained in Carolina."
                    Roger expressed his sympathy with his friend's grief and determination in
                        that silent way which strong men prefer to words. He grasped young Barnegal's hand and
                        pressed it hard, saying nothing, but Barnegal quite understood. These two, comrades in their
                        childhood, schoolmates and lifelong friends, had now become brothers in the truest sense of the
                        word.
                    Their conversation drifted presently to Roger's condition and what was to be
                        done.
                    The order, as has been said, had already come for the retirement of the little force
                        which now alone constituted Lincoln's army. In other words, there was no further work
                        of a military sort to be done for the time. It was necessary for Roger to find rest and medical
                        treatment. His first thought was to disband his little force and go to Alton House.
                    "But Alton House, my dear boy," said Charlie, "is seventy
                        miles away. You can never stand so long a journey in your present condition. Lonsdale is here,
                        almost at hand, less than ten miles distant at the farthest. I shall take you there. I have a
                        fancy that your  nursing there will be inspired by a
                        love as true and gentle as though you were in charge of Jacqueline herself."
                    It was so arranged, and the pair at last bade each other good-night, and stretched
                        out their limbs for such rest as might be possible to them. To neither did sleep come, and after
                        half an hour of pretence, young Barnegal lifted himself upon his elbow and said:
                    "By the way, Roger, have you any news from Lonsdale to tell me?"
                    "No," said the young man. "Nothing of a definite nature at
                        least. I know only that just after I was summoned from home on this military duty, my father
                        made a journey to Lonsdale and that he told Helen something that induces her to forbid our
                        marriage. She has so written to me, but at least she wrote lovingly. It is doubly fortunate,
                        therefore, that if I am to be laid up in a hospital for a few days it is to be at the home of
                        the Vargaves."
                    Young Barnegal had this advantage over his friend. While his friend must lie awake
                        throughout the night to conjecture what the morrow might bring forth, he himself had no morrow
                        in prospect until that time when death should bring him again an opportunity. For that he must
                        wait with what patience he could  command. He would
                        gladly have hurried the day by killing his enemy like a dog, if that enemy could by any means
                        have been provoked to personal war. He could not kill him otherwise without becoming a murderer,
                        and it was no part of his purpose, his character or his history to indulge in thoughts of
                        killing otherwise than in open combat. He had challenged his uncle, as we know and his uncle had
                        insultingly refused even to receive his challenge. The young man had put upon his adversary all
                        of affront that it is possible for one man to put upon another, by horsewhipping him in the
                        presence of a witness, yet he had not succeeded in provoking him to battle.
                    Roger was thinking of these things as he lay there and they kept him awake. Barnegal
                        had thought them all out long before, and was rapidly sinking into sleep when Roger spoke:
                    "What has your uncle ever done with regard to that horsewhipping you gave
                        him?"
                    "Nothing, damn him," answered young Barnegal. "The fact
                        has never been mentioned. No white man in Carolina knows of it except you and me. Tiger Bill has
                        taken pains that no report of it should ever get beyond the limits of his plantation, and I, of
                        course, cannot with honor speak of it. Your tongue 
                        is equally tied. Who else was there to report it to the community?"
                    "I wonder that the negroes have never tattled."
                    "They know better. His treatment of them is severe enough at best, and they
                        know well enough what it would be should any whisper of an affair like that escape beyond the
                        boundaries of the plantation without his permission. He would not wait to ascertain through whom
                        the leakage of information had come. He would bring an iron heel down upon every one of them
                        until their lives, already a burden, should become unendurable. They know him and they have kept
                        silent."
                    Roger said nothing for a time, but after a while he said, more to himself than to his
                        companion, "It is a dreadful pity."
                    "What is?" asked Barnegal.
                    "That nobody should know of the disgrace you have inflicted upon him. I have
                        been turning the matter over in my mind trying to find a way by which I might with honor publish
                        the facts. I can think of none unless perhaps I might relate them to some woman in strict
                        confidence. I suppose that would secure their circulation. Still I cannot do even that. It is a
                        pity. It is a pity. The horsewhipping was  a severe
                        punishment, but it was not enough. Exposure should be added to it. Never mind, old fellow, never
                        mind. Wait, wait, wait. All things come to him, you know, who waits, and all things will come to
                        youJacqueline at the head of them all."
                    And so the friends at last ceased talking and got what they might of sleep. In the
                        morning, young Barnegal, who was under nobody's command, took orders from nobody, and
                        had not to seek anybody's permission to do as he pleased, departed from the camp with
                        his friend in charge. Marlborough, who had followed his master at every step permitted to him,
                        rode on the other side and the two supported young Alton between them for he was very faint from
                        pair and loss of blood.
                    Before their departure from the camp, Roger had bidden his men good-by and sent them
                        to their homes, first taking in his memorandum book the addresses of all of them, saying:
                    "I shall be well presently, boys, and I shall need you again;" to
                        which one of them, speaking for all, sadly responded:
                    "We hope so, Cap'n, and when you need us we will be
                        there."
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    UNDER the IRON HEEL
                    WHEN Roger arrived at Lonsdale he was almost unconscious from fever. Mrs. Vargave had
                        him put to bed at once and sent for a surgeon, who found the wound in a state of dangerous
                        inflammation. It had been very imperfectly cleansed and scarcely dressed at all, and was now in
                        a condition which the doctor called "angry" Roger impatiently demanded of him
                        that he should restore him at once, or, at the most, within a day or two, to full health and
                        vigor.
                    "A little scratch like that," he said, "ought not to
                        disable a perfectly healthy young man like me. It is nonsense to talk of keeping me here, as you
                        do, for an indefinite period. Do something, do something, do something!"
                    Clearly, the young man was out of temper, if not quite out of his mind. The surgeon
                        calmly shook his head and said:
                    
                    "You are lucky, Captain Alton, to be in quarters so good as these, and with
                        such nurses as Mrs. Vargave and her daughter to attend you. Permit me to congratulate you upon
                        that, and let me warn you not to be in too great haste to get well. If you are prudent and
                        cautious, and especially if you sufficiently restrain your impatience of inaction, you may be
                        strong enough within three months or so to ride to Alton House, but if you are not patient, if
                        you try to hurry things, if you overtax your strength, I will not answer for the
                        consequences."
                    With that he quitted the room without waiting for the angry reply which his patient
                        was moved to give him, and the anger, denied expression in words, expended itself in an access
                        of fever which quickly rendered the young man half deliriously unconscious.
                    The physician's prediction with regard to the wound proved to be correct.
                        Week after week the young man lay in bed, or sat propped up with pillows in an armchair, too
                        weak to talk, too weary to think, too dull in his mind even to aspire. It was only as he began
                        to grow better that he began to worry.
                    He was eager to have a talk with Helen, but that discreet young lady, more attentive
                        than he  to the commands of the physician, took
                        measures to prevent his indulgence in anything so rash. She went many times a day to the chamber
                        that he occupied and gave minute and loving attention to all the details of nursing, but she
                        went always accompanied by her maid, and upon leaving, always left the maid behind with duties
                        enough to perform to keep her there for some minutes at least after her own departure.
                    Sometimes in his weakness, Roger, resented all this, and showed his resentment upon
                        Helen's next coming by a certain querulousness of voice which, as a strong man, had
                        never been habitual with him. Helen knew what his peevishness meant, and she knew for what he
                        was longing, but she knew also much better than he did, what was good for him. And so when his
                        exasperation grew greater than usual over her careful avoidance of private conversation, she
                        checked, and, in a sense rebuked it, by delaying her next coming until he had had time to learn
                        better manners.
                    In the course of a few months, however, he grew so far stronger as to contemplate an
                        almost immediate return to Alton House, whence Jacqueline had made two visits to Lonsdale to
                        look after him. It was then that Helen decided  to
                        let him have the conversation with her for which she knew that he was so impatiently longing.
                    It was a sad conversation, with little in it to comfort either of them, except that
                        it bore to each precious assurances of love from the other. Helen could tell Roger nothing with
                        regard to his father's visit to her mother, except that after it was over, her mother
                        had said things to her which she now repeated to Roger thus:
                    "Roger, you remember what I told you about my grandfather? You remember that
                        he bade me always hearken to whatever advice Colonel Alton might give me? You remember how
                        greatly he esteemed him, how earnestly he used to say that Geoffrey Alton was the noblest man in
                        the world, the bravest, the truest, the best? Well, Colonel Alton said to my mother,
                        'Tell Helen this: that I love her as I love my own daughter; that nothing in all this
                        world, nothing that fate could bring me, would please me better than to have her the wife of my
                        only son, the mother of all the Altons who are to come after me. If that might be, I would make
                        any sacrifice to accomplish it, but unhappily, it may not be. It is not I upon whom the
                        sacrifice in that case would fall. It is true that if Roger married  Helen, harm would come to all the Altons succeeding me. But that I should
                        brave and endure if that were all. Unhappily it is not all. If Roger and Helen contract a
                        marriage, hurt would come to the dearest dead you know. For the sake of the dead, I ask Helen to
                        forbid this marriage which I myself have not the heart to forbid.'
                    "That was all he said, Roger, at least it was all that my mother reported to
                        me. I think she knows what he meant. I do not know, but little things that she has dropped from
                        time to time in her grief over this matter, have suggested to me that somehow all this is
                        connected with my father's death or disappearance five years ago, and with that trouble
                        that your father had with the court. It seems that my father must somehow have been associated
                        with thatthat it was to protect my father's name and memory that your father took the
                        risks he did on that occasion. I do not know, Roger. These things are all blind to me. Only one
                        thing is clear, and that is, that it is my duty to you, to Colonel Alton, to my mother, and to
                        my dead father, to say that I can never be your wife, unless and until Colonel Alton shall say
                        that these things are past and dead and buried. Let the matter rest here, Roger. It  pains me to talk about it. Do not interrupt me now,
                        please. You are not strong enough to argue, and I have no wish to argue. I want only to go to my
                        bedchamber and weep. Good-by, Roger, I shall not see you again before you go. Spare me a
                        farewell! I love you, as your wife." And with that she left the room, manifestly
                        broken-hearted.
                    The young man, now recovering some of the eagerness of his youth and strength, would
                        have followed her, but that he knew the useless-ness and the folly and the cruelty of it. He sat
                        in his chair instead, and sobbed as he had never done before since he had put off the pinafores
                        of infancy. Life had brought him up to a blind wall through which no opening appeared, and over
                        which no strength that he had could vault.
                    It was in the early days of August that the young man set out, accompanied by
                        Marlborough, on his way to Alton House. He was confident now of a speedy recovery, and of his
                        ability to take the field again early in the autumn. His purpose was to find surcease of sorrow
                        in the very hardest fighting that he could anywhere find to do. But on his homeward journey, he
                        learned that he was much weaker still than he had imagined, and  on his arrival at Alton House he went immediately to bed and into a fever.
                        For month after month he continued alternately ill and convalescent. Summer ripened into autumn.
                        Autumn dozed listlessly in a purple and golden glory of soft, velvety weather; Christmas came,
                        with its besom of frosts to sweep the haze of Indian summer from the sunshine, and the January
                        spring-time came again, and Roger was a prisoner still at Alton House, unfit for anything more
                        active than a brief morning ride on particularly favorable days.
                    He had missed much of the fighting and adventure. The siege of Savannah by the
                        combined American and French forces, and the splendid assault in which Pulaski fell, a sacrifice
                        to his own heroic daring, were matters of history now, and Roger had had no part in making the
                        events. But his strength was coming back, and the occasion for his resumption of his work was
                        drawing near.
                    With the spring came a menace of sharper warfare than any the south had yet known. On
                        the eleventh of February, Arbuthnot and Clinton,the one commanding the British fleet and the
                        other the British army sent southward from the north,appeared off Edisto Inlet. Making a
                        landing, they entrenched themselves on Wappoo  Cut, a
                        narrow inlet which connects Charleston Harbor with the Stono River, and separates James Island
                        from the mainland.
                    Sir Henry Clinton was an abler man than Prevost, and he commanded a much larger and
                        finer army. The force he had brought with him from New York numbered five thousand men, and,
                        when to these were added the British troops already on the coast, and large numbers of tories,
                        the force that threatened Charles Town by land was a very formidable one indeed. It was to
                        operate in conjunction with the fleet also, and against the combined attack. 'General
                        Lincoln could oppose but fourteen hundred men, and a little flotilla of boats wholly incapable
                        of making a stand against the heavily armed cruisers of the British.
                    Obviously, Charles Town was doomed. Lincoln's first thought was to evacuate
                        the city, and thus save his little army for future use in the field. He thought it possible
                        that, upon retiring to the upper country, he might collect a sufficient army to return and drive
                        the enemy out of the capital. Whether he could have accomplished this or not, is uncertain, but
                        it is evident now that evacuation would have been the better course. Had Clinton pushed his
                        attack with any degree of vigor, that course  would
                        have been adopted. But with all his advantages, Clinton hesitated just as Prevost had done. He
                        remained a full month on the Wappoo within cannon shot, or almost that, of the town, and when,
                        on the twenty-eighth of March he at last moved forward to besiege the city, Lincoln had good
                        reason to expect a speedy and strong reinforcement, with some help from the Spanish West Indies,
                        wherefore he determined to remain and stand the siege.
                    Upon the approach of the enemy, the legislature added still further to the enormous
                        powers it had already conferred upon Governor Rut-ledge. When it was decided that resistance
                        should be made, it was not in the nature of the gallant John Rutledge to resist feebly. Lincoln
                        was military chief, of course, upon whom the conduct of the defence would depend, but it was for
                        Rutledge to add as largely as possible to his resources, and never was there a man better fitted
                        for the work than he. His power was absolute over both men and materials. Not property alone,
                        but human life and human death also were at his unchecked disposal. He provisioned the city, but
                        in doing so took care not to impoverish the country. He prepared the militia, for effective
                        service, and threw as large a body of them into the Charles Town trenches  as could be effectively used there, but he exercised a wise
                        discretion in refusing to denude any part of the country of its young men to such an extent as
                        to leave it defenceless. No man was ever clothed with more unlimited power than he at this time
                        possessed, and no man ever used power more wisely or more faithfully to the purpose for which it
                        was given. But in spite of all Charles Town fell. After a gallant resistance, extending over
                        many weeks, General Lincoln was fairly forced to surrender the city and with it his army.
                    Then came Carolina's night of blackness. The British had never learned, and
                        were not now disposed to learn to regard the patriots as armed foes, engaged in legitimate
                        warfare. They regarded them, instead, as the sheriff regards rioters, as the courts hold men who
                        refuse to obey their mandates, as the law regards the law-breaker. It seems to have been
                        impossible for the British commanders in Carolina at that time, and especially for Lord
                        Cornwalliswho soon succeeded Clinton thereto understand that faith-keeping with the rebels was
                        an obligation; that promises made to them were promises to be fulfilled; that paroles exacted of
                        them and given by them, carried with them all the rights and privileges promised in the offering
                             of the parole. In the eyes of these British
                        commanders, the patriots were rebels to be punished. They were criminals to be hunted down, and
                        to be dealt with by the high hand of force. They were vermin to be exterminated.
                    Thus, when Charles Town fell, and its people, as well as its garrison, became
                        prisoners of war, it was stipulated that all the militiamen and all citizens who should give
                        their parole, might go to their homes and live there in peace, so long as they did not violate
                        their promise not to serve against the king again. Yet when this promise was accepted, and the
                        men making it were faithfully keeping it, the British commanders added, one after another, new
                        conditions to it and enforced them by imprisonment or deportation, until many of those who had
                        pledged themselves not again to serve, were fairly forced to disregard their paroles, and take
                        the field, or go instead into hopeless exile, or to a pestilential prison.
                    The republic in which we live owes much indeed to this treachery and brutish
                        insensibility to honor on the part of Lord Cornwallis and his lieutenants, especially the
                        butcher Tarleton. Had they kept faith, there would still have been a partisan war in the
                        Carolinas, but it would have had far less of determination  in it than it had in fact. It would have been waged with far less of
                        relentless vigor, and many of those who most actively and courageously participated in it, with
                        a price set upon their heads, and, as it were, with nooses around their necks, would have
                        remained quietly home under a parole which they at least t given in all sincerity, but from
                        which they justly thought themselves released by the utter disregard of its terms on the part of
                        their captors.
                    It is not the purpose of the present writer to relate the history of that splendidly
                        her age. That task has fallen to abler pens than his. The facts of history are here mentioned
                        only in so far as they gave rise to the incident recorded in this romance, and may serve to
                        explain its events.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    WAR'S new BIRTH
                    IN surrendering Charles Town, Lincoln was forced to surrender not only his army, but
                        all of the civilians likewise. A very few escaped, for the lines had been tightly drawn for
                        weeks. Young Barnegal had fought in the trenches as long as the struggle lasted, and when it was
                        over, and surrender was agreed upon, he was wholly unwilling to become himself a part of the
                        sacrifice. He was prepared to face any danger, and endure any hardship, rather than submit to be
                        a prisoner of war in the loathsome quarters which the British were then accustomed to use as
                        military prisons, and he had no faith whatever that if he accepted a parole lie would be
                        permitted to live unmolested under its terms.
                    He foresaw what afterward happened to many in Carolina, as already related. He had no
                        stomach for imprisonment in any shape. He resolved to escape at all hazards.
                    
                    Before undertaking this he wrote hurriedly to a friend in Charles Town who had sought
                        to dissuade him. His note ran as follows:
                    "I have set out to fight for the privilege of being a free man. I have
                        risked my life as all the rest of us have, in that behalf. And life is not more precious to me
                        now than it has been all along. Why then should I not risk it again, rather than surrender my
                        freedom? Moreover, even if I could trust the British parole, I do not want its protection. I do
                        not want to live in secure idleness while my country is being overrun and subjected to a foreign
                        domination. I will, therefore, make an effort to escape from this trap, and in that effort, only
                        death shall cause me to fail."
                    Quitting the ranks, he concealed himself in a fisherman's hut on the Ashley
                        River, which had been abandoned since the bombardment had begun. For two days and nights he lay
                        there without food, or even a chance to get water. The British were swarming on the opposite
                        shore, and were patroling the shore on which he lay, their lines having been extended into and
                        around the city. The little hut lay just outside the outer line; and so, the young man for two
                        days escaped capture, or rather escaped the necessity of making the desperate final battle  which he had determined upon as the alternative to
                        capture, and the only alternative he would accept.
                    On the third night, the British seemed satisfied that their work of occupation was
                        complete, and greatly relaxed their vigilance along the shores. About midnight young Barnegal
                        slipped out under cover of darkness, and aided by a thick fog which lay over the harbor and the
                        city, managed to reach a little well which had served the fisherman, and there slaked his
                        parching thirst. Then, taking off his shoes, he crept quietly through the fog to the margin of
                        the river, and there still further lightened his burden of clothing by removing his hat and
                        coat. Very quietly, and with as little splashing as possible, he let himself into the river,
                        thronged as it always is at that season of the year with man-eating sharks and other enemies
                        which the boldest swimmers do not care to encounter.
                    The river at that point is very wide, and the enemy, as he knew, occupied its
                        southern bank. But Barnegal's plan was to meet one difficulty at a time, and the river
                        was the first difficulty. Swimming as noiselessly as possible, he at last, near morning, reached
                        the southern shore. He was chilled through to the bone, water-soaked,  of course, bare-headed, bare-footed, and weary beyond expression, for
                        the swim he had made was twice at least as great as any he had ever undertaken before. The
                        friendly darkness and the still friendlier fog served him well. He went into the tall marsh
                        grass which grew thickly along the shores, and, as the tide was out, he threw himself down in
                        the ooze for a little needed rest. "The incoming tide will awake me," he
                        thought to himself, "if I fall asleep, and it should be coming in before the morning
                        breaks."
                    When the rising water lapped his feet and aroused him an hour or two later, he was at
                        first bewildered with faintness, hunger, and his excessive weariness, but he presently gathered
                        together enough of his wits to know that he must be up and doing if he hoped to complete the
                        work of escape. The enemy were now posted almost entirely upon the main, and so the young
                        fugitive swam across Wappoo cut to James Island. There, passing through the woods, he at last
                        reached Stono Inlet, and crossed that to John's Island. He was sure now that he was
                        south of the enemy's position, and as he was utterly exhausted by starvation, he
                        determined to recross to the mainland at a point still farther south. Having secured food  at the hands of a friendly negro, he wrapped his
                        feet in the long gray moss that there abounds, and proceeded on his journey.
                    It was in this plight that he at last reached Alton House, bringing with him the
                        first definite news that had been received there of the surrender of the city and army. After he
                        had been fed and clothed, Colonel Alton peremptorily ordered him to bed and to absolute silence
                        until he should be recovered of his fatigue. It was not until the following day that he
                        reappeared, dressed in Roger's garments, and told fully the story of which he had given
                        only the briefest possible outline on the day before.
                    "The event is altogether the worst disaster that has yet befallen the
                        American cause," he said by way of comment. "The fall of Charles Town is the
                        fall of South Carolina, if not the fall of the entire South."
                    "How so," asked Roger, who had just been discharged from the
                        doctor's hands, as at last well and ready to get strong. "I see no reason for
                        surrendering South Carolina merely because the British have taken our capital and
                        seaport."
                    "Why, Roger, we have no army left, and the demoralization of the people is
                        terrible. The enemy is already spreading over the country,  establishing posts. By dint of terrifying some and cajoling others, they have
                        made more than half the people already swear allegiance to the king. The state is prostrate and
                        helpless, and those of us who are not ready to choose between taking the oath of allegiance and
                        going to a prison ship, must quit Carolina at once, as I am going to do."
                    "You were in Charles Town at the time of the surrender?" asked
                        Roger.
                    "Certainly."
                    "You got away, didn't you?"
                    "Of course. What do you mean? How else could I be here?"
                    "I mean only thisthat a young man who could escape from a long beleaguered
                        and at last surrendered city, across a bridgeless river, and through lines which the British had
                        spent weeks in drawing tighter and tighter, might manage, I think, to stay in South Carolina and
                        do some little fighting here, in spite of all the efforts of a scattered foe to catch him, or to
                        drive him away. If we, who are not readywho never mean to be readyto swear allegiance to King
                        George, quit the state, then is Carolina indeed conquered, but I, for one, shall stay here, and
                        not only stay, but fight, too, till I fall. It is no time to run away. Carolina  needs every one of us now, and moreover, if we go
                        away and leave the British in undisturbed possession, they will first establish themselves
                        firmly here, and then march northward, crushing the patriots of the other colonies as between
                        two millstones. We shall then have nowhere on earth to which we can flee."
                    "Roger," replied Charles, speaking in a low, but very earnest tone,
                        "have you forgotten what I told you in the woods the night you were wounded?"
                    "No, Charles, I have not."
                    "You will understand me and believe me then, when I say that no man can be
                        more anxious than I am to stay here in Carolina. Now tell me frankly what you mean, and how it
                        can be done."
                    "I will tell you," said Roger, "and after that
                        I'll show you, too, if you'll join me. John's Island is only a small
                        spot on the map of Carolina, and yet I stayed there a month, with twenty men, when the British
                        army there had nothing to do but catch me, and more than that, my stay cost the British a good
                        many men and horses, to say nothing of lost time and expended energies. The swamps of Carolina
                        afford ' cover ' for a great deal of game which no huntsman can drive out, and
                        why shouldn't you  and I and some hundreds
                        of other bold young fellows succeed as well, with our educated intellects, as the poor deer do
                        with their instincts, in eluding the vigilance of the pursuers? We must take to the swamps and
                        live there, with such fellows as we may be able to take with us; and from the swamps we must
                        sally forth and strike wherever a point of weakness invites a blow. As Marion once phrased it,
                        by the way, where is Marion? He must be our leader, if we can find him."
                    "Nobody knows," replied Barnegal. "He was at home with a
                        broken ankle when Charles Town fell, but he has disappeared taken to the swamps, people say. But
                        if that be so, he must have faithful friends with him, for he can neither walk nor stand. Just
                        before the siege of Charles Town began, he was supping with a party in the city, in an upper
                        room. After the bad fashion that exists among us, his host locked the door, determined that none
                        of his guests should leave until all of them should be too drunk to leave. Marion, you know, is
                        very abstemious, and he had no mind to be forced into a debauch, so he quietly slipped through a
                        window and dropped to the ground, breaking his ankle in doing so. He was at home nursing the
                        injured joint when Charles Town fell.
                    
                    But come; I like your idea, and want no better leader than you, Roger. I have heard
                        of your exploits on the Island, and I fancy you know this sort of partisan business quite as
                        well as another. But how are you to hide until you get well? The British are moving up this way,
                        and will be here to-morrow, I fear."
                    "I shall be ready, then. I have a friend or two living not far awaybrave
                        fellows, who were with me on the island. Let me send for them to come here. Then we'll
                        easily find out just when the red coats approach, and we'll take to the swamps
                        together."
                    "My dear brother," said Jacqueline, entering the room at the
                        moment, what are you talking about? You are a sick man, my patient, and I shall not allow you to
                        think of going anywhere until you are well again."
                    "Not even to prison?" asked Roger.
                    "I do not understand," she replied.
                    "Why, that's the alternative. If I don't go to the swamps,
                        I must go to prison; for I will never swear to be a loyal subject of Georgius rex, my
                        dear."
                    "But why can't you stay quietly at home? "asked the young
                        woman.
                    "For the reason, my dear sister, that His Gracious Majesty's brave
                        soldiers are afraid of  patriots, even when they are
                        sick and at home. Bring your portfolio, won't you, sister, and write a note or two for
                        me, and send for Marlborough to saddle a horse and report."
                    "Certainly, my lord general. ' Report' is essentially
                        military, I think, and I'll issue your ' general order No. I ', and
                        then ' report in person at these headquarters,' to act as your what do you
                        call it,adjutant, isn't it?"
                    And with that she playfully patted Roger's cheek before quitting the room.
                    Marlborough delivered the notes, and just at nightfall three sinewy fellows mounted
                        on little half-bred horses, and armed with holster pistols, swords and long rifles, rode up to
                        Alton House. They were "common" people in the parlance of the time and
                        country; that is to say they were plain, uneducated men, overseers or small farmers perhaps,
                        with no claims to social recognition at such a mansion as Alton House. But Roger received them
                        cordially as his friends and comrades, meeting them in the porch and ushering them as guests
                        into the supper room where Jacqueline courtesied is answer to the awkward bow of each quite as
                        if these had been the stateliest gentlemen in the land. Jacqueline Alton was a lady, you see,
                        and she honored whomsoever might come as  an invited
                        guest into the mansion of which she was mistress.
                    The men shrank back at first, awed quite as much perhaps by the dazzling beauty of
                        the richly dressed young hostess as by the novel surroundings, but Roger came promptly to their
                        assistance.
                    "These are my friends, sister," he said by way of introduction,
                        "my comrades-in-arms. Mr. Hadley, Mr. Burton, Mr. Frostmy sister, gentlemen. You are
                        just in time for supper."
                    Mistress Jacqueline honored these men as patriots and brave soldiers, of whose
                        prowess and faithfulness Roger had fully informed her. She welcomed them also as his friends,
                        and I verily believe she took greater pleasure in entertaining them, plain fellows as they were,
                        than she would have felt had they been men of the" highest social rank. That fine
                        gentlemen should do battle for their country was to her quite a matter of coursethey had family,
                        name, estates and reputation to maintain. But these plain fellows had no such incentive, and
                        their courage in such a cause she deemed the loftiest heroismas perhaps it was.
                    After supper Roger explained his plans to the men.
                    
                    "I must go back to the swampsnot merely as a precaution against arrest, but
                        for the sake of keeping up the struggle and annoying the enemy as much as possible. I want to
                        take with me as many good men as I canespecially as many of my old Island volunteers as can be
                        found. I have sent for you, therefore, to join me because I knew I could depend upon you. Now,
                        who else is there we can get?"
                    The men entered heartily into the plans of their captain, and before morning Roger
                        Alton was again chief of a little band numbering something more than a score of daring and
                        determined men. Barnegal was his only lieutenant, and as it was desirable for Roger on account
                        of his health to remain at Alton House as long as possible, Barnegal took two of the men and
                        rode away early in the morning to ascertain the movements of the enemy. Meantime Roger kept the
                        rest of his company together to be ready for immediate marching.
                    About noon Barnegal reported the British within five miles of Alton House, encamped,
                        and sending out "small bodies" of cavalry in every direction.
                    "How small?" said Roger, in the sententious and rather imperious
                        manner which he had unconsciously adopted in conversation on  military matters; for his whole soul was in this war, and to him it was a
                        personal affair which stirred his anger and made of him not so much a soldier with a duty to do
                        as an insulted gentleman bent upon resenting and resisting in vindication of his personal right;
                        and insulted gentlemen are apt to speak shortly and sharply even to their friends. "How
                        small?"
                    "Well, some of the bodies number ten, some twenty, and some more,"
                        replied Barnegal. "They are ordinary scouting parties, sent out, I fancy, to scour the
                        country and pick up stray patriots and poultry. We had better betake ourselves to the swamps at
                        once if we don't intend to be caught."
                    "We are not foxes," said Roger, buckling on his sword. "We
                        can fight as well as run, and the swamp is our base of operationsnot merely a refuge from
                        danger. Pardon me, Charles, you have seen only regular, systematic war. I am a partisanan
                        outlaw, the British sayand I will show you what the books neglect to teach: that in such a
                        country as this, a little band of bold fellows may wage little wars of their own without any
                        very great danger of capture. We will strike at one or two of these scouting parties, if you
                        please, by way of intimating to their commanders that  Carolina is not conquered yet as they imagine that it is, and we will ride away to the swamps
                        when we must. Luckily, my men know every by-path hereabout. Bid the men mount, please."
                    A moment later the young cavalier was riding at the head of his little company.
                        Inquiring at every opportunity, and scanning the road for tracks, he was not long in discovering
                        that a party of British, well mounted, had gone to the neighboring plantation of Beverly bent
                        upon plunder perhaps.
                    "Examine the road, Burton," said Roger, to a tall, gaunt,
                        bullet-headed fellow, whose small restless eyes were given to a minute study of everything about
                        him at once. "Examine the road and tell me how many there are of those
                        fellows."
                    Without a word Burton discharged an exhausted quid of tobacco from further service,
                        find dismounting walked forward a dozen yards or so scanning the confused hoof-marks in the
                        sand, of which a less skilled observer could have made nothing whatever. Returning he said:
                    "They's twenty-eight or thirty uv'em in all; hosses all
                        big, an' five uv 'em's thoroughbreds, or purty nigh it. They
                        ain't lookin' fer no  soldiers,
                        though, but huntin' plunder. If they wuz expectin' fightin' men, they
                        wouldn't ride all over the road as they're adoin'."
                    "Very well," said Roger, "mount your horse. Now men,
                        attention. We are all pretty well armed, but some of our horses are scrubby, and one or two of
                        you have no pistols. This party ahead of us has good horses and plenty of arms, and it will be
                        our own fault if we fail to supply ourselves abundantly at their expense. Burton finds that they
                        are riding carelessly, irregularly, 'all over the road' as he puts it, and
                        assumes very properly that they do not expect to encounter anything more belligerent than a
                        hen-roost or a sideboard or a sucking pig. At Beverly they will leave their horses with one or
                        two guards, or possibly no guards at all, while they search the cellar and chicken-coops. Half
                        of them will leave their pistols in their holsters. We must approach through the grove and
                        charge from the edge of it. Then let every man who sees a better horse than the one he is
                        riding, capture it and mount it. Turn the old ones loose as we cannot afford to lead horses. Let
                        no man fire until we are fired upon, but use your sabres instead. The enemy outnumbers us, and
                        everything depends upon the completeness of the surprise."
                    
                    In obedience to a brief order or two, the little company filed off through the woods.
                        Silently they rode over the sandy soil of the pine barren for half an hour, then through a grove
                        of low hanging oaks, till they reached its edge, when Roger in a low tone, scarcely louder than
                        a whisper, said:
                    "Forward. Keep line. Open order; draw sabres; gallop; CHARGE!"
                    The last word rang out at the top of the young chief's voice, and ten
                        seconds later he and his men fell upon a group of dismounted and terror-stricken cavalrymen who
                        had been left with the horses of the whole body. Their sabre strokes fell fast and furious for a
                        time. Then Roger called out: "Provide yourselves with arms and horses, men, and
                        stampede all the rest."
                    It was no sooner said than done. The half dozen guardsmen had promptly thrown down
                        their arms, and it was the work of only a moment, to send the released and frightened horses
                        helter skelter through the woodlands, a task in which the British, pouring out of the house,
                        themselves unintentionally assisted by delivering an otherwise ineffectual fire from such arms
                        as they had with them.
                    "These are light horse troops and have  no rifles," said Roger eagerly to his lieutenant. "They
                        have emptied their pistols, and on foot their swords are useless. We will make absentees of them
                        at roll-call to-night." And, giving a few, rapid orders, he led his men again to the
                        charge.
                    The onset was furious, and the helpless dismounted men were speedily drivenas their
                        horses had beento the neighboring woods, leaving several of their comrades on the field,
                        stricken down by the whirling sabresquite half of which, had been fashioned in a
                        blacksmith's shop, out of scythe blades. When the melee ended, Roger formed his men in
                        front of the mansion whose mistressa neighbour, a patriot, and a friend of his ownhastily
                        brought forth decanters and glasses.
                    "We must drink and away," said the young chief.
                        "Here's to Carolina, country and liberty. May we prove faithful to all
                        three."
                    Crack! went a rifle from the bushes near-by. Crack-crack-crack-crack-crack!
                    "Them's not red coats, them's tories," said
                        Burton the observer and oracle. "Red coats don't shoot rifles, and they
                        don't fight every feller for hissef, nuther."
                    There was no time for discussion. The tory 
                        
                            
                                Forward! Gallop! Charge!
                        
                         company which had come up was much too formidable
                        for Roger's party in point of arms and numbers, and it was clearly their purpose to
                        capture the little band of partisans. Seeing the situation at a glance, Roger wheeled his force
                        about and attempted to gallop away; but he had fallen into a trap. A deep, sluggish stream lay
                        in the rear of the house and the tories had stretched themselves in a strong line around the
                        three other sides. There was no escape except by swimming the stream. Well aimed bullets
                        whistled around the heads of the patriots as they plunged into the water, but all escaped to the
                        opposite bank where they halted to cheer. They did so too soon, however, for as they shouted
                        they were greeted with a shower of musket balls from the timber on that side of the river on
                        which they stood. They had crossed the stream only to fall into an ambuscade. Tories or
                        troopsthey could not at the moment determine whichwere in the strip of low ground through which
                        Roger had been confident of escape, and his party was completely hemmed in.
                    "What are we going to do now," asked one of the men, a new recruit
                        who had seen nothing of war.
                    
                    "We are going to die like men if we can't do anything
                        better," said Barnegal, who was now thoroughly aroused; "but we are going to
                        fight like devils first."
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    IN WHICH an enthusiastic YOUNG
                        GENTLEMAN saves a HUNDRED GUINEAS
                    ROGER ALTON was accustomed to carry a perfectly cool head upon his broad shoulders
                        under all circumstances. Being a not very imaginative young man, and being possessed of an
                        excellent digestion, it was never his habit to exaggerate dangers which must be encountered
                        unseen. He calculated probabilities and weighed facts with the utmost precision, but he added
                        little to the probabilities and nothing to the facts by excited conjecture. Half a dozen musket
                        balls coming from a thicket meant to him half a dozen men certainly, or perhaps a few more, as
                        circumstances might indicate. And by "men" in the military sense he understood
                        so many frightened fellows who fired at random quite half of the time and usually too high to do
                        any damage. He knew, as every soldier does, that a bullet whose  whistling sounded in his ears was harmless, having already passed him by, but
                        unlike persons of less steady nerves he held this knowledge practically, and gave no heed
                        whatever to such escaped dangers. Better than all, he was too manly a fellow to care
                        particularly for danger of death in so good a cause, and he gave himself no concern in peril, on
                        his own account at least.
                    War was to him a grand game in which manhood and liberty were the stakes. He played
                        to win these, recking little of the pawns it might be necessary to sacrifice to the winning of
                        the game, even though one of those pawns should chance to be named Roger Alton. But he knew the
                        value of the pawns, too, and he took care to throw none away uselessly, wherefore he was careful
                        so to dispose his men at the present moment as to screen them pretty effectually from the fire,
                        a task rendered easier by the oncoming of night.
                    "Halt the men here, Barnegal," said Roger, "while I go
                        forward and see how matters stand. Let no man reply to the fire of the enemy. Let us keep them
                        in ignorance and perhaps in terror too. I will return presently." Then tossing his
                        bridle to a trooper, he walked away. The musket flashes followed each other  in rapid and regular succession, wherefore Roger assumed that his
                        enemy on this side of the river was a body of regulars, but by a careful noting of the points
                        from which the shots came, he speedily discovered that their numbers were not very large,
                        probably thirty or forty in all, and that their line was a thin one stretched over a great deal
                        more ground than it could properly hold. The men were placed in a semi-circle with flanks
                        resting on the river. To accomplish this they stood at intervals of twenty or thirty feet, as
                        Roger discovered by observing their fire.
                    "They are attempting too much," he said to his lieutenant on his
                        return. "They are afraid to charge us in the dark. Their line is a very thin one and we
                        will break through it. I will take half the men, while you keep the rest here in absolute
                        silence. When I attack, the red coats will thicken up their line over there on the right and you
                        can break through at the other end. If I don't get through I will wheel about and
                        follow you."
                    The plan seemed the best one possible under the circumstances, and after agreeing
                        upon a rendezvous Roger led half the men to the attack. When he was but a hundred yards from the
                        river bank, the enemy rapidly contracted  their line
                        toward the point of his attack and when he rode forward at a gallop received him with a heavy
                        fire which checked his advance very decidedly. He might even yet have broken through, however,
                        if the distance between him and the British had been great enough to admit of his regaining
                        speedfor in charging through infantry a body of horsemen must depend chiefly upon momentum. As
                        it was he quickly wheeled about in the direction of the point where Barnegal had succeeded in
                        breaking through.
                    Unluckily, the commander of the British force appears to have been a quick-witted
                        fellow. When Barnegal escaped on the left, Roger's whole plan was revealed to his
                        enemy, and that enemy, rightly judging that Roger's party alone remained within his
                        toils, sharply contracted his line all around, narrowing his semi-circle to a quarter of its
                        former length, and so strengthening it at all points.
                    A heavy fire at short range greeted the partisans now from every side except from the
                        river in the rear. Our young man's case seemed indeed desperate. Barnegal, observing
                        the fact that the fire increased instead of ceasing, wheeled about and attempted to go to his
                        friend's rescue, by breaking into the semi-circle  out of which he had just succeeded in forcing his way, but he dared not use
                        his rifles lest Roger's party should suffer. He rode forward and succeeded in drawing
                        attention to himself from that part of the line at which Roger's first attack had been
                        made.
                    "Come, boys, this is our opportunity!" cried Roger.
                        "Barnegal will hold their attention for a minute or two, long enough to let us swim
                        past. Follow me."
                    Bullet plunged into the stream. The rest followed; and as horses swimming make no
                        noise after the first plunge, the point of danger was passed without discovery.
                    Barnegal was still busy and the British were still pouring a heavy fire into the
                        empty thicket whence the patriots had escaped down the river, when Roger's party,
                        having made land below, galloped up and joined Barnegal's in safety.
                    "It is time to die like men," shouted Barnegal. "I am
                        going to break through that line or lose every man trying. I have a
                            hundred golden guineas that belong to the man who first shakes Roger Alton's
                        hand!"
                    "Well, that man is Charles Barnegal," said Roger, coming up and
                        shaking hands with his friend. "Attention men! Follow me!"
                    The command was untechnical, but five minutes'  riding served to put the little band out of danger in the depths of the great
                        swamp. Three or four of them carried British bullets in their bodies, but not one had fallen
                        from his saddle, and not one was sufficiently hurt to require more of attention than the rude,
                        amateur surgery of a partisan camp could furnish.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    CAPTAIN JACK'S DEVICES
                    THE distressing situation which Mrs. Vargave had foreshadowed when Roger was first at
                        Lonsdale had now come upon the Carolinas. Systematic war had been changed to that cruelest of
                        all things known, a civil war, in which neighbor was arrayed against neighbor, and private
                        vengeance sometimes played a larger part than conviction of any sort in inspiring action. Men of
                        the baser sort everywhere had sought security for themselves by yielding allegiance to Great
                        Britain. They had hoped thus to make an end of war in the south, and rest securely at their
                        ease. In this hope they were disappointed.
                    The patriots, as we have seen, were not yet ready to give up the struggle. Soon after
                        Roger Alton's band began its work of annoyance, other such bodies were called into
                        being m different parts of the state. Among these was the  little force rallied by Sumter which under inspiration of his repeated
                        victories was soon swelled into a strong brigade of six hundred men or more.
                    The British too were completely disappointed. When Sir Henry Clinton, having captured
                        Charles Town, sailed away north leaving Cornwallis in command of four thousand troops, it was
                        his confident expectation that the tories would speedily form a force in Carolina sufficiently
                        strong to keep that state in permanent subjection without the aid of regulars. It was his plan
                        when that should occur to have Cornwallis push northwards to the conquest of North Carolina and
                        Virginia, but the partisans checked and delayed this movement seriously. And meantime,
                        Washington soon sent an army of Continentals and militia back into the state which, under Gates,
                        at first and later under Greene, speedily revived the war there upon regular lines.
                    All this while the tories were organizing and marauding, partly for the purpose of
                        over-awing the whigs, but in many cases with a larger view to personal vengeance upon offending
                        neighbors, to the persecution of whigs, the destruction of property, and in some cases, plain
                        unvarnished robbery. It is to the credit  of the
                        little bands of partisans that, although the organized and fighting tories outnumbered them
                        considerably, the patriot cause at no time ceased to be the dominant one in status and in
                        achievement. Marion and Pickens soon added their tremendous vigor to that of Sumter and the
                        smaller patriotic bands.
                    Thus the whole state was plunged into ceaseless, merciless, cruel civil war. It was a
                        fearful price to pay, but its reward of independence amply made it good. For while Cornwallis
                        was usually victorious in formal fights, he was baffled and beaten on his road to Virginia, and
                        rested at last at Yorktown more in the attitude of a commander seeking refuge for his
                        over-matched army than as a victor whose purpose is accomplished. On the other hand, he left
                        behind him in the Carolinas a patriot force under Greene which, within a year or little more
                        soon practically reconquered the state. And long before a treaty of peace was made, the
                        Carolinians had the joy of seeing the British driven out of their capital, and the authority of
                        their state restored.
                    All this is a wonder-story of heroism, daring, and almost inconceivable endurance. It
                        is told in history, in song and in story. It is no part of the present writer's task to
                        repeat it  here beyond this meagre outline. But all
                        this came later than the present stage of our story. At present all was blackness and night, and
                        the torch of liberty was kept dimly burning only by such bands as that of Roger Alton.
                    Roger Alton's force fluctuated in numbers as did all the little patriot
                        bands of that time. Men were killed and other men took their places. Men were drawn off by one
                        consideration or another for service elsewhere. Roger's force was sometimes depleted in
                        this and other ways until it scarcely amounted to a squad. At other times it was swelled to
                        proportions sufficient to enable him to fight considerable actions.
                    When he had first gone out in this way, Marlborough had come to him with an earnest,
                        almost a tearful petition to go with him.
                    "Why, Marlborough, I shall be but a poor hunted swamp fox, a soldier in
                        arms, living as best I can, and dispensing with all the luxuries of life. I cannot afford to go
                        about with a serving man like a fine gentleman; for I am no longer that; I'm only a
                        plain, simple, hard-living and hard-fighting soldier."
                    "But, Mas' Roger," broke in the negro, "you want
                        men and you can't get 'nuff of 'em. I could be a soldier as well as
                        your servant and  I could be both at the same time.
                        If you will let me go with you, I'll promise you I will fight as hard as anybody in the
                        company. And when the fightin's over, I will look after your hosses and your boots,
                        sir, and if you should get wounded again, you would need me to see to it that you
                        didn't die o' neglect. The poor white gentlemen that you's mostly got
                        with you don't know how to take care o' a gentleman when he's sick or
                        wounded. Thank the Lord, I've been brought up to know. You'll let me go with
                        you, won't you, Mas' Roger?"
                    Roger thought the matter over. He did indeed need every extra man that he could get,
                        and here was Marlborough, strong, hardy, willing, and certainly courageous. Why not make a
                        soldier of him? There was not only nothing in the law of Carolina to forbid that, but on the
                        contrary, the statutes there had long sought to encourage the enlistment of faithful negroes as
                        soldiers for the state's defence. It had been enacted that men of color might be
                        enlisted in any company up to the limit of one-half the company's total number. It had
                        been further provided by law that the master of any slave who should refuse to permit his
                        enlistment should be liable to criminal prosecution and punishment. The ability of negro troops
                             to "fight nobly" and their
                        willingness to fight for the country which they have always regarded as their own, is no new
                        thing in the history of this land. From the beginning indeed the better men among the negroes
                        have been willing volunteers in the country's defence whenever permitted that privilege
                        of manhood. Andrew Jackson fully realized this, and when at New Orleans he was called upon to
                        improvise a ragamuffin army with which to repel the assault of 12,000 of Wellington's
                        choicest troops under command of no less a general than Sir Edward Packenham, one of his first
                        acts was to issue a proclamation calling upon the negroes to volunteer in defence of the city.
                    Marlborough became Captain Alton's soldier-servant.
                    In such warfare as this in Carolina, where one's neighbors chiefly
                        constituted his enemies, and where the movements of small bandseither of tories or of troopsgave
                        opportunity now and then for the delivery of a blow, means of securing information, accurate,
                        prompt, and trustworthy, became a matter of the first importance. To this part of the service
                        Jacqueline devoted herself. She lovingly said to her brother on the occasion of one of his early
                        visits to Alton House: 
                        
                            "I know you do not think me of any account, Roger, because I am a
                                woman, and a woman cannot fight; or at least you think she cannot. If you would let me,
                                I would soon show you how far you are wrong, but you won't, so there's
                                an end of that. But I can be of the utmost service to you. I am going to be your chief
                                spy. I am going to know whatever happens in this whole region of country, and I am going
                                to inform you of it with all possible dispatch. I have been working out a system by
                                which I can communicate with you. Under cover of my plantation duties, which, now that
                                you have taken away all the overseers to serve as soldiers, are greatly multiplied and
                                diversified, so that I have to go to distant blacksmiths' shops and other
                                places where men gather and gab, I shall be able to pick up all the information you
                                want. The point is to be able to communicate it to you without revealing your
                                whereabouts when you desire your where-abouts to remain unknown. I have been thinking it
                                over, Roger, for a long, long time, and I think I have perfected a plan. If you will
                                give me an hour or so, we can work it out together."
                        
                    
                    Just then came one of Roger's men riding at a furious pace to announce that
                        a squad of tories was plundering a plantation ten miles  away. There was no time to stop for the perfection of Jacqueline's
                        plan, but before riding away in pursuit of the enemy, Roger said to her:
                    "Go every night at ten o'clock to the little lake in the swamp down
                        yonder. I will meet you there sooner or lateras soon as I can. Your idea is an excellent one. We
                        must perfect it and put it in operation. Until I see you there, good-by, dear," and off
                        he went at the head of his handful of men.
                    It was two nights later when Jacqueline rode into the little semi-circular opening
                        down by the lake in the swamp where Roger was broiling some bacon on the end of a stick. He was
                        quite alone, having placed his camp at some distance away as a measure of prudence, and having
                        come hither in the hope of meeting his sister. The two sat down together by the fire, and
                        Jacqueline outlined her plan.
                    "First of all," she said, "I shall never sign anything.
                        You will understand that, and when I have time to put a message into cipher, I'll do it
                        in this way."
                    Then followed an account of her simple cipher device, which she had made as free as
                        possible from puzzling and time-wasting complexities. In a little while she had made her  brother as familiar as she herself was with the
                        methods to be employed in writing and reading massages.
                    When she had done explaining the cipher, she resumed.
                    "Sometimes I shall not have time to use cipher. You see, my dear brother,
                        you are only my brother, not my lover. If you were my lover, I, as a well brought up young woman
                        should have all the time necessary to make my letters to you as full and as nonsensical as
                        possible. As you are only my brother, I will always come straight to the point, and spend as
                        little time as possible in preparing my missives. So there now. Do not imagine that even my love
                        for you puts you on the plane of a sweetheart."
                    With that she mischievously kissed him and Roger kissed her in return. "Now
                        then, dear," she said, "I have a lot more to explain, and must not stop to
                        make love. First of all I want a little powder. Can you spare me some for my pistols? Secondly,
                        the next time you make a foray, I want you to capture half a dozen or a dozen guns for me. I
                        want them in the house?"
                    "But who's to use them, Jack?"
                    "Oh, my young negroes. I have organized  the most patriotic little band of pickaninnies you ever saw in your life.
                        There are a dozen or twenty of them ranging in age from twelve to fifteen years. I taught them
                        all how to read a while ago, and I have taught them many other things. They are devoted to me,
                        Roger. You wouldn't think it, because I am a hard mistress you know." Roger
                        laughed at this. "Yes I am; I am very hard. I always insist upon having everybody tell
                        me the truth, and you know the young negroes don't like to do that, but I am very
                        rigid, Roger, very rigid. Still they like me, and they will do what I tell them to. Best of all
                        I have taught them to like you. I have taught them that to render you any service is to
                        distinguish themselves and win my highest favor. Now it seems to me that in the course of your
                        campaigning around here you are making a good many rather bad enemies, and some of these days
                        they may conclude to take vengeance in some way at Alton House"
                    "Just let them try that," said Roger. "If they ever do, I
                        will give them cause to remember it the longest day that a single manjack of them lives. Be sure
                        of that, dear."
                    "Oh, yes, I know," she answered, "but at the same time an
                        ounce of prevention is better  than a pound of cure,
                        so I want the guns. I am drilling my little squad every day with sticks. When I get real guns
                        for them and actual ammunition, I will train them to expect an assault upon Alton House, and
                        when it comes, they will know exactly how to repel it. I have studied out every point of
                        vantage, from which a fellow can shoot with the least possible danger of getting shot, and I
                        will show them just where to go when the fighting comes. I will be there to captain them, be
                        sure of that. Don't you think it's a good plan, Roger?"
                    "A very excellent plan, Jack," he answered meditatively,"
                        and as for the guns, why I know where to get them within the next twenty-four hours. I was going
                        after them anyhow, not to get the gunsfor we have enoughbut to stir up the fellows that have
                        them. I will have them brought away and delivered at Alton House. And now, dear, go on with what
                        you had to say."
                    "Yes, Roger; you must not interrupt so much. I have a lot of things to tell
                        you. I am going to establish a post office department. There are a great many hollow trees in
                        the swamps and elsewhere, and every hollow tree is my post officeat least every one that I mark.
                        I have got a little hatchet here, and when I  mark
                        three cuts on the smooth side of a tree that has an opening on the other side, you will
                        recognize that as one of my post offices. So all you have got to do is to look out for the three
                        little cuts like this, do you see?" and with her hatchet she scored, much as a surveyor
                        might do with a witness tree. "You will find this wherever you go. I will always have a
                        post office within reach, so wherever you are, you can send one of your men or come yourself and
                        get one of my little billets doux."
                    "Where did you get the idea, Jack?" asked Roger, who was disposed
                        to conversation.
                    "Oh, I got it out of a book. It was the story of a lovelorn maiden who was
                        baffled by wicked aunts and uncles and fathers and all that sort of thing, and not allowed to
                        see her lover or to communicate with him. She set up a little post office of this kind and kept
                        it up until she was caught at it. Now maybe I will get caught at it after a while, just as she
                        was, but if I am the penalty won't be the same that she suffered, because they sent her
                        to a convent. They won't send me to a convent. I wonder what they would do to me. Never
                        mind, I won't be caught. If I am you will come for me, won't you?"
                    "Come for you? To the ends of the earth,  Jack," Roger replied with enthusiasm, "and I will bring
                        some fellows with me that would go through fire and water and lightning and whatever else you
                        can think of, including a volcano, to rescue my sister. But you mustn't get caught
                        Jack. Be very careful. When you have time, put your missives always into printing letters.
                        Nobody can recognize your writing then for it will not be a hand writing but a hand printing.
                        And do not write except when you must. Another thing; sometimes it will be more convenient to
                        meet me. I don't know where I shall be, but you will generally know, and I will let you
                        know as often as I can. Let's agree upon a way of doing that."
                    "Oh, you stupid," she said, "do you think I have
                        overlooked that? Why I have got it all down as fine as possible. I have worked it all out. Now
                        let me tell you about it. When you are going along a road, and you find a twig bent down on one
                        of the overhanging trees, look a little further along the road and see if you find two more
                        twigs bent down on two other trees. You see anybody might accidentally bend a twig down, and
                        that might mislead you; hut if three twigs are bent down not more than three or four trees apart
                        you will know that Jack did it. And it means look out for  me. Then if you are in this swamp, you are to take your knife and cut a
                        triangle out of a big leaf. You are to stick that on one of the trees whose twigs I have bent
                        down. That will mean to me; 'Meet me in the swamp.' And I will come here. If
                        you are not here I will hunt for you."
                    So she went on with one detail after another of a complete code of signaling and
                        communication. It is not necessary to record here her further devices for rendering
                        communication easy between herself and her brother. It is sufficient to say that the system was
                        wrought out with an ingenious simplicity which prompted Roger to say:
                    "You are a wonder, Jack. You have a positive genius for intrigue. I wonder
                        where you got it?"
                    "Well, genius was perhaps born in me, but I got my ideas of intrigue pretty
                        nearly all out of my novels. I must 'fess up, Roger. I am an awful reader of novels,
                        and I like the bloody ones best. I like those that have dark, underground chambers and
                        passageways, and I have been thinking whether I could not make a passageway undergroundI would
                        if it weren't so dampbetween Alton House and the swamp here. However, we will have an
                        overground  communication quite as good. Never mind
                        that now, I have got to go hack. No, you shall not escort me. I know what you were going to
                        say," she added, as he rose with evident purpose to summon some of his band.
                        "No, I can go back alone. It is not proper for me to associate with you. You are a
                        rebel. You are an outlaw. You have a price upon your head, I suppose. At any rate there ought to
                        be. Your head would be cheap at any price. You are a traitor to your king. It won't do
                        at all for a respectable young woman like me to be seen in your company. I will communicate with
                        you only in secret. Good-night, Roger,"
                    With that she sprang upon the black mare which she usually rode at night and
                        disappeared in the thick undergrowth.
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    IN the HANDS of the ENEMY
                    YOUNG Barnegal had been for some weeks absent from Roger's camp. Roger had
                        sent him early in the summer to find Governor Rutledge, who was on the borders of North
                        Carolina, planning ceaselessly night and day for stirring up as much of resistance as possible
                        in the state over which he was dictator. Roger desired to receive whatever of suggestion
                        Governor Rutledge might feel inclined to give him with regard to the conduct of his own little
                        war in the swamp country. He desired also to learn what plans others were to carry out and in
                        what ways he could best co-operate. In the meantime, Roger had continued his forays for fifty
                        miles or more round about his swamp headquarters, meeting Jacqueline often, receiving news from
                        her upon which he based his activities, and carrying out even more fully than she had intended,
                        her plan of arming Alton House.
                    
                    The young lady had been many times stopped and questioned by officers of
                        Tarleton's legion, out on foray duty, and still more frequently had she been warned by
                        tories of her own neighborhood that her movements were watched, and that unless she ceased what
                        they believed to be her activity in the patriot cause, she was likely to get herself into
                        serious trouble. She parried all questions by frivolous answers. She assumed the
                        lightheartedness and lightheadedness of a chattering young girl who has never had a serious
                        thought in her mind, and to a considerable degree she managed in this way to disarm suspicion.
                        She said to Roger once when she met him by appointment:
                    "You cannot imagine, Roger, what a silly little chatterbox you have for a
                        sister. Oh, I have cultivated all the art of it. I have studied up speeches out of my novels. I
                        have them pat and ready for use whenever anybody questions me."
                    Nevertheless, Mistress Jacqueline Alton was under serious suspicion, and this
                        suspicion suddenly began to manifest itself in new and rather startling ways. For Tiger Bill, to
                        whom hatred was the one inspiring motive of action, had by this time become a notorious
                        loyalist. He had scattered his money right and left as freely  almost as his cynicisms, and both had been employed to discredit the patriot
                        cause and to induce his neighbors of every degreebut particularly the lower degreesto take
                        active part in tory warfare. It was believed by those who knew him best that Tiger Bill heartily
                        hated all mankind, but his special hatred was against his reputable and patriotic neighbors, and
                        particularly against those of Alton House. Had not Geoffrey Alton been his enemy through life?
                        Had not Roger Alton been the bearer of young Barnegal's challenge to him? Had he not
                        been a witness of his humiliation and horsewhipping at the hands of his nephew? Could there be a
                        sweeter revenge to Tiger Bill than that of persecuting these, his special enemies?
                    In this mood of mind, Tiger Bill had succeeded at great expense to himself in setting
                        on foot a tory band whose duty it was to persecute those against whom he cherished the bitterest
                        personal malice. He was shrewd enough to discover the part that Jacqueline was playing, and it
                        seemed to him to offer an opportunity for a most satisfactory revenge. If he could get this
                        young woman into limbo, and perhaps even get her hanged as a spy, or failing that, incarcerated
                        in company with the lowest criminals  in some jail,
                        he felt that his malice would be gratified beyond anything that he had ever known.
                    Jacqueline reported the situation to her brother by letter and in person as fully as
                        she might. She desired not unduly to alarm him, but it was necessary to explain to him the
                        extraordinary precautions that she must now take in communicating with him. Roger, with that
                        bluff determination which was his chief characteristic, made eager inquiry as to the band
                        organized under Tiger Bill's inspiration. "I will find it," he said,
                        "and crush it; and failing that, I will go and hang Tiger Bill himself to the biggest
                        tree on his plantation. He is too great a coward I suppose to take the field himself. He is the
                        sneak that sets the others on. Perhaps the best way to discourage the activities of his tories
                        would be to hang him and thus deprive them of his inspiration, and of the devilish ingenuity of
                        his suggestions. I will do it, Jack."
                    "But you cannot, brother," she answered. "He is not to be
                        found. He has taken pains as I have ascertained, to absent himself from his plantation, and to
                        hide himself securely against possible vengeance."
                    "Still, I may be able to find him," said  Roger. "I will try anyhow. Barnegal returned this afternoon.
                        I will leave him in charge of my party and go myself on a reconnaissance. While I am gone you
                        may communicate with Barnegal by the same means that you use in sending messages to me. I have
                        explained the system to him, and he knows it perfectly. In the event of any need, call upon him.
                        I think you know him well enough to know how gladly he will respond, especially if the need
                        happens to be to protect you, my sister, from danger."
                    So the two parted, and before morning Roger was twenty-five miles away in search of
                        information as to Tiger Bill's whereabouts. He had one piece of information at this
                        time which was of unusual value to him. He knew all the men in the region round about who were
                        tories by profession, for one reason or another, but were patriots at heart. He could go to them
                        and secure information which no avowed patriot could give him. It was his mission now to find
                        out from them, and especially from those of them who were members in name at least of Tiger
                        Bill's company, where that gentleman might be hiding.
                    But while Roger was riding away in one direction, a squad of Tiger Bill's
                        men was waiting  for Jacqueline in another. That
                        young woman had ridden less than half an hour after parting with her brother, before she was
                        suddenly halted and surrounded in the middle of a road by thirty or forty as desperate fellows
                        as were ever engaged in an evil enterprise. She was seized violently, a gag was thrust into her
                        mouth, her arms were pinioned, and her feet tied together. She had no time even to cry out. If
                        she had cried there would have been none to hear.
                    But as the party rode away with her, a lurking figure rose from the underbrush near
                        by, darted quickly across the road and into the swamp. For five miles he ran, scarring himself
                        in contact with cypress knees, tearing his clothes from his person and his skin from his flesh
                        among the brambles, knocking himself prostrate a dozen times in the darkness by contact with the
                        tree branches and overhanging vines which make those swamps so nearly impenetrable. He swam
                        across streams and pushed through mires that a prudent man would hardly attempt in the brightest
                        daylight. Obviously he knew the shortest way and he took it.
                    In half an hour Marlboroughfor it was hebroke through the bushes and into
                        Roger's  camp, bleeding, torn, disheveled
                        and desperately excited. Finding that Roger was no longer there, he quickly communicated the
                        facts to young Barnegal. Unfortunately, the band was, at that time, depleted in numbersonly six
                        or seven men remaining, but with this meager force, Barnegal set out at once in pursuit. They
                        soon discovered that Jacqueline's captors were riding southward meaning apparently to
                        pass by Pocotaligo, Coosawhatchie and Grahamville and on through the swamp country to and across
                        the Savannah River.
                    Barnegal gave the hottest possible pursuit, and about daylight overtook the enemy
                        north of the Combabee River. He gave battle at once, but his efforts were futile. Every man in
                        the company except Barnegal himself and the negro Marlborough fell from his saddle with a bullet
                        through his body, and only the speediest possible retreat saved Barnegal and Marlborough from
                        capture in their turn. Both of them would have stood there until death released them from their
                        duty, had there been a chance in that way to rescue the young woman. Seeing that there was none,
                        it was for her sake, not for their own, that they withdrew.
                    Fortunately Roger Alton had given Barnegal  as accurate information as he could of his own intended movements, and the first thing now to
                        do was to find him if possible, and at any rate to gather together a force sufficient to resume
                        the pursuit. The white man and the negro were equally in earnest. They rode with discretion, the
                        negro fortunately being able to save some miles now and then by reason of his knowledge of short
                        cuts. As they were pushing through a body of dense undergrowth a man, who had been sleeping
                        there suddenly sprang up and recognized them.
                    It was Humphreys. It took them less than a minute to tell him of what had happened,
                        and he was ready instantly with a plan.
                    "I know where Roger Alton is," he said. "He is not half a
                        mile away from this place. I will give Marlborough directions how to find him. Go to him,
                        Marlborough, and bring him here as quickly as possible." With that he furnished the
                        negro with all necessary information, and it seemed scarcely five minutes before the young
                        commander rode up mounted upon his spare horse, Mad Bess, and almost crazed with horror at the
                        news that had been brought to him.
                    Humphreys remained cool, as he always did. "Calm your excitement, Captain
                        Alton," he  said. "We will rescue
                        your sister this side of the Savannah River. I will answer for that. Come with me."
                        Then mounting his own horse, which had been picketed in the underbrush, he led the way out of
                        the swamp into a public road. "We must follow this road," he said, "a
                        little way. Captain Alton, this is a desperate case, and we must use desperate means, if you
                        don't mind."
                    "Mind, man!" said Roger. "I will resort to battle, murder,
                        or sudden death, anything, everything to rescue nay sister."
                    "Very well.," said Humphreys, "I am going to lead you into
                        very bad company. I am going to employ in this enterprise means which ordinarily you would
                        scorn, men for whom you cannot possibly have the smallest respect. In doing so I am going to
                        reveal myself to you in a way which I had hoped might never be necessary. You say you
                        don't mind what means I employ or what agents? "
                    "No, no, no!" answered Roger. "To rescue Jacqueline I
                        would join forces with Satan himself, and make comrades and intimates of the most disreputable
                        devils in hell."
                    "So would I" said Barnegal. "Come on."
                    "Be quick, man," said Roger impatiently.
                    
                    "I will be quick," said Humphreys. "Come with
                        me." And again they turned into the swamp. Presently they came upon a little glade
                        where there were a dozen or twenty ponies grazing about. "We must leave our horses
                        here," said Humphreys, "and ride these marsh tackeys instead. We have some
                        swamp work to do where our horses would leave us in the mire. As quickly as possible transfer
                        your saddles to the best of the tackeys."
                    The marsh-tackey played a large part in the partisan war of the Revolution. He exists
                        only in the Carolina swamps. He is the descendant of thoroughbred horses that were turned loose
                        or escaped wellnigh a hundred years before the Revolution, and bred wild in the swamp land,
                        picking up a precarious subsistence from such grass and soft cane tops as they could find. The
                        marsh-tackey is at home in the swamps. He knows his way across mires as no other horse ever did
                        in the world. He has a trick not only of recognizing a mire where a less expert intelligence
                        would fail to see it, but of crossing it without miring. When he comes to such a spot he
                        suddenly changes his gait, reducing his steps to six inches or so in length and keeping no foot
                        upon the ground for more than a fraction of a second. In that  way he avoids sinking, and small as he isfor the largest of the tackeys are
                        only ponieshe can carry the heaviest weight with ease, live upon nearly nothing, and endure the
                        longest journey apparently without fatigue.
                    These tackeys, running wild in the swamps are anybody's property who chooses
                        to capture and subdue them. The work of subduing them is a difficult one, requiring all the
                        skill and determination of the most daring horseman, but once subdued, the tackey is a servitor
                        whose faithfulness can be relied upon in all emergencies, and whose endurance, as has been
                        indicated, is almost incredible.
                    Roger quite understood what Humphreys meant when he proposed the exchange from stout
                        horses to the lean little marsh-tackeys. Five minutes later the four men were threading their
                        way through swamp lands which only the guidance of Humphreys, and the peculiar gifts of the
                        little animals they rode, could have made passable or possible. Within an hour they came upon a
                        sentrya long, lean, grizzled and desperate looking fellow who called to them to halt. Humphreys
                        said a word to him and he withdrew his gun from his shoulder.
                    "How many men are there," Humphreys asked.
                    
                    "Twenty or twenty-one in all," answered the man.
                    "Very well," said Humphreys. "That is quite
                        enough." Then, turning to Roger he said again:" Don't object now to
                        the agents I am going to employ in this business. They are desperate men, outlaws, criminals, if
                        you please. They obey no men on earth but me. Murder to them is a pastime. They fear no God, no
                        law, no enemy. They will follow me without question into any danger, and their fighting I think
                        will satisfy even your ideas of what brave men may do. There is a price upon the head of every
                        one of them, but for that matter, there is a price on your head and upon mine also. We too in
                        the eyes of the British are criminals and outlaws. Let us not be too choice of our
                        companionships in a ease of desperate need like this."
                    He gave Roger no opportunity to reply beyond a word or two ejaculated to signify his
                        readiness to employ any means available for the present purpose.
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    "TARLETON'S QUARTER"
                    BY this time, South Carolina had become a hornet's nest. All through the
                        long Summer after the surrender of Charles Town, the British had been quite uniutentionally
                        nursing the patriotic sentiment of the people. They had everywhere disregarded the terms of
                        surrender which they themselves had prescribed for Charles Town. They had everywhere ruthlessly
                        violated their part of that compact. They had wantonly seized upon citizens to whom they had
                        pledged safety and protection under parole, had torn them away from their hollies and their
                        families, and sent them to prison in St. Augustine and elsewhere, denying them not only news of
                        what was happening at that homes, but oxen the privilege of meeting together on Sundays to hold
                        religious services. They had thrown Henry Laurens into the Tower of London without even the
                        accusation of anything worse than desiring  peace and
                        reconciliation between the tories and the patriots within the Colonies. They had not yet hanged
                        Colonel Hayne as they did a year later, but they had in hundreds of other cases disregarded the
                        terms made by themselves with surrendered prisoners and patriots, and had thrown mento whom they
                        had pledged protection and safety in their homes-into prison. Tarleton had begun that system of
                        savage warfare the history of which has made his name peculiarly infamous in history. It was his
                        custom to violate flags of truce, to butcher men who had surrendered and thrown down their arms,
                        to waylay peaceful citizens, and to make the war as brutal, as inhuman, and as bloodthirsty in
                        its savagery as any that the Red Indian ever conceived.
                    In brief, the British had taught the Carolinians that there was no safety for them
                        except that which they could secure by their own strong right arms. They had taught them that
                        pledges and promises were of no avail; that mercy was nowhere to be found; that the warfare of
                        the patriots was held to be a lawless and criminal resistance to constituted authority; that
                        belligerent rights were never to be accorded to them; that peace for them lay only in abject
                        submission or in the grave.
                    
                    With brave men, conditions such as these could have but one outcome. They took their
                        scythes and their ploughshares to the blacksmith shops to be beaten into swords and pike-beads.
                        They arose in revolt everywhere, and made ceaseless though irregular war. Bands like that which
                        Roger Alton had raised multiplied throughout the state. In every neighborhood there was such a
                        force held together by the bond of a common patriotism, and a common danger, striking wherever a
                        blow was possible, and dispersing when resistance seemed impracticable, but dispersing only to
                        assemble again the moment that opportunity came.
                    Under such circumstances, it was natural that news of Jaequeline's capture
                        should spread like wildfire through the country, and that pursuit in the hope of rescue should
                        be extended throughout the region concerned. A dozen little bands set out from a dozen different
                        quarters to overtake and, if possible, to overcome the force that had her in charge. Roger Alton
                        and Barnegal knew of course that this would he done, but they were not disposed to trust
                        anything to chance, or leave any effort unmade on their own account. The danger was that these
                        efforts at rescue would come too latethat the girl would be carried within the  strongly entrenched British lines at Savannah before
                        her rescue could be accomplished.
                    It required but a glance on their part to discover the nature of the camp into which
                        Humphreys had led them. It was a camp of smugglers; men who had for years been engaged in
                        violating the revenue laws imposed by the British.
                    They were a grizzly, greasy, unkempt lot of desperadoes, but they thronged about
                        their leader with the loyalty of men who had learned to know the value of leadership, and whose
                        respect for his authority had been strongly stimulated upon many occasions by his manifest
                        readiness to shoot clown any who might refuse instant and entire obedience. The moment Humphreys
                        came among these his followers, his manner underwent a marked change. He was no longer the
                        modest, shy, shrinking creature that he had so often shown himself to be in his intercourse with
                        Roger Alton, but a chieftain who gave orders that must be obeyed instantly and without
                        questioning.
                    "How many boats bare you?" he asked.
                    "Plenty of them, sir," replied one of the men. "How many
                        do you want?"
                    "Three will do. Arm them immediately, and put six men into a boat. I will go
                        in one,  Captain Alton in another, and Lieutenant
                        Barnegal in the third. Send your other three men to me quick."
                    When the three men appeared and doffed their caps he said to them: "Mount
                        the freshest tackeys you have and ride at once to Pocotaglio. Three of you can make a fight
                        there on the causeway across the marsh as long as need he. If this gang attempts to cross there,
                        hold them in check until we come. We'll come up from Coosawhatchie. Go quick, and do as
                        I tell you. I hold you responsible." Then turning to Roger he said: "I do not
                        think they will cross at Pocotaglio, but by chance they may. They will probably go higher up
                        country and pass that way to Coosawhatchie, six miles below. There at any rate they must cross
                        the river, and we will be there to meet them. Into the boats, men, into the boats
                        quick!"
                    His orders were delivered like pistol shots, and obeyed without a question. As the
                        men dropped into the boats, Humphreys turned to Roger and said:
                    "With your permission I will take my boat first. One thing you can depend
                        upon. My men will stand until the last man of them dies. Have no fear of that. If I find the
                        enemy already  at the river I will engage him. You
                        and Mr. Barnegal must look out for the young lady. Cut her out as quickly as possible and take
                        her to the rear. Then join us, for we shall be greatly more than overmatched."
                    There was not much of military dignity in this plan, but Roger saw instantly that it
                        was a good one. There was danger that upon the first assault Jaequeline might be put to death or
                        carried away by some of her captors. The party in charge of her outnumbered Humphreys's
                        force quite two to one or more. The rescue must come early in the action, if it was to come at
                        all.
                    The oars were already muffled carefully. That seemed to be their habitual condition,
                        for Humphreys gave no order and made no inquiry with regard to it. Obviously these men were
                        accustomed to keep their own counsel. They bent to the oars with a will, and just at nightfall
                        reached the rude bridge at Coosawhatehie. Fortunately they were ahead of the enemy, as they
                        learned from one of the three who had been sent to Pocotaglio, and who had galloped thence to
                        Coosawhatchie to report what had there been learned with regard to the enemy's advance.
                        This simplified matters considerably. It was certain now that Jacqueline's captors  were seeking to cross the Coosawhatchie River during
                        the night. Humphreys decided that it was better to let them do so, than to meet them on the
                        bridge. Sending his boats back down the river for half a mile, and biding them there securely,
                        he brought his little force up and stationed them according to his notion of Mint the need might
                        be. He threw Roger Alton with six men across the stream to the north and placed him there in a
                        thicket.
                    "When the enemy attempt to cross," he said, "I will engage
                        them on the south side. I will place Mr. Barnegal near the head of the bridge while with my
                        other men I will hold a position two or three hundred yards south of the bridge. Lieutenant
                        Barnegal will remain concealed until the enemy passes. When I engage them he will watch his
                        opportunity and fall upon their flank. You in the meantime must rescue the young lady before she
                        reaches the bridge. I take it for granted that she will be kept in the middle or rear of the
                        cavalcade. At any rate, bearing in mind that her rescue is the main object to be accomplished, I
                        leave you to see to that in the best way you can, not caring a hang how many of our lives it may
                        cost. If you need our assistance you will find us with you promptly."
                    
                    Roger was astounded at the extraordinary quietude with which these men seemed able to
                        break through brush or to move about in any way that they pleased. Scarcely the red Indian
                        himself was more skilful than they in maintaining silence while accomplishing their purposes.
                    An hour passed after these dispositions were made, and still no sign came of the
                        approaching enemy. To Roger and to Barnegal the minutes seemed hours and the hours days. But at
                        last the roistering crew, who had secured liquor on the road, and whose enthusiasm in their evil
                        work had been stimulated by deep potations, came riding down the road, wholly unsuspicious of
                        the existence of any enemy in front. They had apparently little fear of assault from that
                        quarter. Yet they acted with some caution.
                    The head of the column rode upon the bridge and crossed it. The centre remained
                        awhile, apparently to let those in advance of themselves discover what might be ahead. A rear
                        guard of ten men rode a quarter of a mile in the rear while Jaequeline, surrounded by as many
                        more, rode upon a led horse in the middle. The squad guarding her was the one that paused before
                        attempting to cross the bridge.
                    
                    Roger's first impulse upon seeing her was to dash at once into the party
                        with the six men under his command and try conclusions then and there, but he had learned enough
                        in his warlike experience to know the importance of carrying out plans as nearly as possible as
                        they were laid, so he waited until be heard the rattle of Humphreys's rifles in front,
                        and the response of the men he was attacking. Then he made his own dash, and fortunately, young
                        Barnegal proved less patient and less obedient to orders than he. Instead of falling upon the
                        flank of the men in front, as had been intended, he left them to be dealt with by Humphreys, and
                        himself led his party across the bridge to aid Roger in the rescue.
                    It was the work of a very few minutes to snatch Jacqueline from the hands of her
                        surprised and bewildered captors, to cut her bonds, and bid her ride away into the cane and
                        there await events. That done, Roger and Barnegal dashed across the bridge but in doing so
                        received a heavy fire from the rear. The rear guard had obviously come up.
                    Meantime, Humphreys was still struggling with the men in front, outnumbered but
                        battling gallantly. Knowing that Jacqueline was safe for the moment at least, Roger and Barnegal
                             disregarded the foe in the rear, and pushed on
                        to assail the force in front. In a minute it was crushed between them and Humphreys's
                        force, and its men threw down their arms. Then Roger turned and led his men and
                        Barnegal's back to the assault upon the now present rear guard. To his surprise,
                        Humphreys, with four menall that he had left of the six with whom he had struck the first
                        blow-came up and joined in the melee. Even in that moment of excitement, young Alton's
                        curiosity got the better of him.
                    "What have you done with your prisoners?" he asked.
                    "There are none," answered Humphreys. "These fellows
                        don't take prisoners."
                    And to his horror, Roger discovered that such was the truth. The men who had thrown
                        down their arms had been quickly despatched, in order that their captors might be free to
                        continue the fight upon their comrades, and when these in turn offered surrender, one of the
                        smuggler men called out: "We will give you Tarleton's quarter!" What
                        that meant a road strewn with dead men quickly revealed.
                    "This is horrible," said Roger to Barnegal, as Jacqueline emerged
                        at their call from the cane.
                    
                    "I do not know," said Barnegal. "For myself, I am savage
                        enough to-night to rejoice in it, and besides, it is a trick that the British themselves have
                        taught us. Those fellows did not cry 'No quarter,' you remember. Their cry was
                        'Tarleton's quarter.' It is a cry that is going up all over this
                        laud. It is the cry of desperate men forced into savagery by savagery. It is the recoil of an
                        explosion. It is the unbending of an overstrained bow. Let's not be too sensitive about
                        it. Jacqueline at least is safe."
                    "But where is Humphreys?"
                    In the thick darkness nobody could see, and a shout or two brought no response.
                        Roger, turning to that man among the smugglers who had seemed to he Humphreys's most
                        trusted lieutenant, asked: "Where is your captain?"
                    "The last I saw of him, sir, was in the road behind there in the middle of
                        the fight. I will go and look."
                    He went. And a few minutes later Humphreys, shot through the body in half a dozen
                        places, was found lying in the sand which his blood had drenched into a quagmire.
                    There was a little blacksmith's shop near. Standing before it was a light
                        wagon. Into this Roger bid the men lift their chieftain,  and, attaching four of the tackeys to it said:
                    "I will take the poor fellow to Alton House Come, men, you will go with me
                        as a bodyguard."
                    "It is not necessary, Cap'n," said the one whom he had
                        recognized as lieutenant. "The cap'n seems to be done for, and anyhow, he will
                        be well guarded in your hands. It is not our way to go into the settled country. We will go back
                        to our camp. If you need us at any time, you can find the way there, I suppose;" and
                        with that, the scant remainder of Humphreys's forces, leaving their dead comrades on
                        the field, returned to their boats and were seen no more.
                    Roger was unwilling to leave the spot until he had ascertained that there were no
                        wounded men of the toriesfor they were tories and not Britishto be cared for. But he found not
                        one. Humphreys' men were not accustomed, apparently, to be satisfied with wounding men.
                        Their idea of battle was to kill.
                    Roger's next care was to look after Humphreys's wounds. Procuring
                        an axe from the little blacksmith's shop, he quickly blocked out of one of the great
                        pine trees growing there, some large chips of that resinous wood which ignites  at the touch of fire and blazes like a blast
                        furnace. Splitting this into bits, he brought out his tinder box and quickly had a torch that
                        enabled him to see almost as by daylight.
                    He handed this to Marlborough, bidding him mount into the wagon and hold it there
                        while he should inspect the poor fellow's hurts. Marlborough, who was usually as nimble
                        as a cat, made several futile attempts to mount into the wagon, and finally fell prostrate into
                        the sand. Going to him, Roger discovered that his faithful follower had received a severe hurt
                        in the action. He had in fact been cut down by a sabre stroke which had partly scalped the side
                        of his head, and had open his shoulder. Uncomplainingly he had sought to conceal his own wounds
                        and to go on with the duty that he loved in the care of his Mis' Jacqueline. But
                        weakness from loss of blood and from shock had been at last too much for him, so that now he lay
                        there helpless.
                    Lifting him into the wagon, Roger and Jacqueline, with Barnegal's
                        assistance, did what they could toward dressing the wounds of both men. Marlborough was only
                        faint, but Humphreys had completely lost consciousness, though so far as they could discover,
                        the bullets that had passed through him had struck 
                        no immediately vital part. This at least was their hope.
                    The journey to Alton House was a long one, but fortunately the roads of that country
                        are well adapted to the easy transportation of the wounded in a wagon. There is no stone there
                        not even a pebble and the sand which constitutes the roads is soft and yielding enough to render
                        springs unnecessary even in an ambulance. Nor are there any hills to he climbed or descended.
                        And so, slowly, and as gently as if in a barge, the two wounded men were carried to Alton House,
                        arriving there at dusk of the next day.
                    When the morning dawned on the day after that journey, Jacqueline, who was still
                        attending Humphreys, turned to Roger and said:
                    "Roger, this is the man who gave me the money chest."
                    Roger responding said, "This is the man who sailed with me from the Bahamas.
                        I have promised him never to mention the fact to a human being, but to you I feel that I may
                        tell it now, in view of what he has done for us. But keep the secret well, my dear, for his
                        sake. Until yesterday I did not know why he wished me to remain silent on that subject. I know
                             now, but it can do no harm for you at least to
                        know that this is not the first time in which I have been under obligations to his courage, his
                        daring, and his skill."
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    HUMPHREYS'S story
                    
                    UPON their arrival at Alton House, Humphreys was put immediately to bed and a surgeon
                        was sent for. He shook his head before be had examined half the wounds, and said:
                    "Poor fellow! There is no hope. He may become conscious to-night or to
                        morrow. I would advise that, if he does so, some one question him as to any matters he may wish
                        to arrange before death, for that he will die of these wounds is as certain as science
                        itself."
                    Marlborough was found to be in much better case, and after dressing his wounds, the
                        doctor predicted that, with his superb physical health and strength he would be on his feet
                        again within a day or two and quite well within a month. "But it was a narrow
                        escape," he said. "If that sabre had struck one-quarter of an inch farther to
                        the left, his head would have been split open like a watermelon."
                    
                    Roger watched all night by the bedside of Humphreys, while Jacqueline attended poor
                        Marlborough, whom she had insisted upon placing in her own bed upstairs.
                    The next day Humphreys's consciousness returned as the physician had
                        predicted that it would, and Roger said to him:
                    "I am afraid you are very badly hurt, old comrade, and I want to know, in
                        case anything should happen, if there is anything I can do for you."
                    Humphreys looked at him for a moment out of his resolute gray eyes and said, in a
                        feeble voice but without emotion or whimper:
                    "Of course I understand. There is no hope for me. I am done for. And do you
                        know, I am rather glad of it. I have lived for years hoping for a chance to make atonement. My
                        time of atonement has come. I had hoped never again to associate myself with the desperadoes who
                        were our comrades in that fight. I had hoped to begin a new life. I want to tell you all about
                        that, but I cannot tell it twice, and I must tell it also to your father. Would you mind sending
                        for him, and in the meantime, please give me a drink of brandy."
                    The brandy was furnished and Colonel Alton summoned. He was now so feeble from  the effects of his wounds and his maladies that he
                        had on this occasion to be carried down the stairs, across the hall and into the room of his
                        wounded guest. The moment he entered and looked at Humphreys, there was recognition in the faces
                        of both.
                    "I see that you know me, Colonel Alton," said Humphreys.
                    "My dear friend," said Colonel Alton, "I do know you, and
                        for what you have done for me and mine I have come to thank you with all the strength and
                        sincerity that I can command. Do not let us talk now. It will only increase your suffering, and
                        perhaps your danger."
                    "I do not mind the suffering, and, as to the danger, that cannot he
                        increased. The hour of my death has been appointed. It is very near at hand. It makes little
                        difference whether I hasten it by an hour or two or not. There are some things I must say before
                        I die." Then he added: "I would like to have your daughter Jacqueline present.
                        She too ought to know the facts in this case. It will pain her to know, but it is due to her
                        that she should know."
                    Accordingly, Jacqueline was summoned, for it was clear that to resist the wish of the
                        dying  man would only add to his agony. When all were
                        gathered together he said:
                    "Let me tell my story in nay own way. It is a story greatly to my shame, and
                        yet I cannot help thinking, as I stare death in the face, that perhaps, perhapswell, never mind.
                        It is for you to judge me, not for me to he judge in my own case. Much of the story you know,
                        Colonel Alton, but not all of it. Let me tell the whole of it, and pardon me if I weary you by
                        recounting things that you already know. My name is William Vargave."
                    At this both Jacqueline and Roger started.
                    "Yes, I knew," the wounded man continued, "I knew that you
                        would be shocked at hearing this, but I cannot help it. My name is William Vargave. I was born
                        to as honorable a house as any in the Carolinas. I was reared in all the pride and glory of our
                        aristocracy, an aristocracy founded not so much upon birth as upon honorable achievement. My
                        father, Colonel Alton, served with your father in the early Indian wars, before either you or I
                        was old enough to carry a gun. When our time came, you and I served together in like manner
                        against the Cherokees. You were cruelly wounded: I escaped unhurt; but we were corn fades then,
                        and you did not forget it.  Throughout all my young
                        manhood you were the friend held most closely to my heart, and you were always the most generous
                        and helpful of friends. I was cursed with a temperament that you sought to correct. I was cursed
                        with a disposition to overweening confidence in myself, in fortune, and in the future. I was a
                        day-dreamer, an optimist, an enthusiast, call it what you will. I was always planning great
                        enterprises, and always failing in them. My failures taught me nothing. You, though you tried,
                        could teach me no more than they did.
                    "At last came the time when I dreamed a dream of fortune such as no man from
                        Croesus down had ever dreamed before. I wrought out its details in my mind, with such care that
                        I believed in it from the bottom of my soul. I could see no chance or risk of failure in it. On
                        the contrary, it seemed to me that failure was as utterly impossible as a failure of the sun to
                        rise in the morning. I invested in this scheme every dollar that I could raise. I mortgaged all
                        my possessions to the utmost limit. I sold everything I had that was susceptible of sale. I
                        still lacked a thousand pounds of enough to make the enterprise a success. I went to you and
                        asked to borrow that money. You bade  me bait. You
                        told me that my scheme was visionary. You showed meif I had had the sense to seethat only
                        failure and disaster could come of it. You said to me: 'After you have gone into this
                        matter and failed, when you have come out of it impoverished and in need of money, come to me,
                        and you shall have it in whatever abundance I may be able to supply, but I cannot and will not
                        help you into au enterprise of this kind by lending yon money to be invested in it.'
                        That in substance is what you said to me. Yon were wise. But I was a fool. I was so sure, so
                        certain, as I thought, of a success that would startle this continent, that I made up my mind to
                        seize upon the assistance that you refused to give meI forged your endorsement upon a note that
                        I thought I knew I should be able to meet and take up long before maturity.
                    "I see now as I saw long ago, how criminal it was, but I did not see it when
                        the thing was done. I honestly believed that no possible harm could come to you or anybody else
                        from my act. Had I believed that there was even the remotest chance of my failure to discharge
                        that note before its maturity, I would have burned off my right hand in the fire rather than
                        write your name upon the back of that note.  I hope
                        you believe me in this. I am a dying man, telling only the truth."
                    Colonel Alton was sobbing, and for a time he could not respond. Presently he said:
                    "I do believe you, my dear friend, and I have known from the first all that
                        you now tell me. I have understood you as you did not understand yourself. But why bring up all
                        these things now? "
                    "I must, I must, I must," said the dying man. "I cannot go
                        to my grave until I have made full confession, as I have tried to make full atonement. When I
                        found that my crime must be revealed, when I found that my friend must be a sufferer at my
                        hands, or must choose between that and becoming the exposer of my guilt, I fled. But I fled not
                        as a coward flees; I fled not to escape punishmentthat I would willingly have taken upon myself
                        and endured as an atonement. I fled only to gain opportunity in order that I might at least
                        repair to you the harm I had done to you.
                    "In nay youth I had been a sailor. I had always been interested in shipping
                        ventures. I had often gone to sea to learn something of navigation, as you know. So I decided
                        that the only place where I might earn the money that I owed you was at sea.
                    
                    "I went first to William Barnegal and laid my case before him. I thought he
                        might help me, but he refused. In our boyhood he and I had been comrades as you and I had, and I
                        thought that he still bore me some affection. I told him the truth and I learned then how soured
                        and cynical he had become. He softened nothing in his dealing with me. lie taunted me. with the
                        fact that I was a forger, and expressed wonder that, with the consciousness of such a crime on
                        my mind, I should venture upou his premises. He then went so far as to say to me: 'If
                        you could give me any proper security, I might lend you money at interest for the sake of the
                        interest, but as I understand you, you are a beggar as well as a criminal;' and with
                        that he bowed me out.
                    "I went next to my father-in-law. He was a man, as you know, of imperious
                        temper and almost an exaggerated sense of honor if it is possible to exaggerate that sentiment,
                        lie too repulsed me, and bade me take myself out of Carolina, saying: 'When you married
                        my daughter, it was without my consent. I see now the wisdom that prompted me to withhold such
                        consent. Go anywhere out of the world that I live in. As for your wife and daughter, well, at
                        least I will see that they do not  starve. I cannot
                        promise you more than this.'
                    "On that night I sailed in a little sloop out of the creek down there where
                        my father-in-law lived. A man was swept overboard in the gale. The crew had been recently
                        shipped, and the men were not known by name to their officers. I instantly conceived the plan of
                        taking that poor fellow's name, and leaving it to be supposed that it was William
                        Vargave who had been cast overboard and drowned. Under my new name of Thomas Humphreys, I
                        followed the sea year in and year out. The work was slow and toilsome, and at last I despaired
                        of ever accomplishing my purpose by such means.
                    "I had in the meantime studied the commercial situation very carefully. The
                        British trade laws u, ere oppressive and unjust beyond endurance. They were so unjust indeed
                        that even had I still held myself to be a gentleman, and a man of honor, I should have had no
                        scruple whatever in violating them, as other gentlemen in Carolina and at the north had no
                        scruple in sharing the proceeds of their violation. I saw the opportunity that our peculiar
                        coastinterlaced as it is with inlets, sloughs, bayous, creeks, and little riversoffered for  traffic of this kind in violation of the revenue
                        laws. I found men engaged in this business who lacked the brains to conduct it skilfully, and
                        who, for lack of brains, achieved nothing except now and then a term in jail, or, in extreme
                        eases, a gibbet. I made myself the leader of these men. I organized them and became their
                        chieftain. I could furnish them the brains they lacked, and the lack of which they themselves
                        felt keenly.
                    "I made myself their master. Such men always need and want a master. I ruled
                        them with a high band. I taught them that my commandswhatever they might be-were commands to be
                        obeyed instantly and without question upon pain of instant death at my hands. I established a
                        rendezvous here on the coast hidden away where there was not the slightest danger of any revenue
                        officer ever finding it, and where it would have been greatly the worse for the revenue officer
                        who did venture to find it.
                    "In that traffic, which was legitimate enough in its way, I accumulated
                        money. I dealt fairly and honestly with my men, making that division of profits which we had
                        agreed upon, and which was just.
                    "It had been their habit to make little, if any,  discrimination between smuggling and piracy. Many of them had sailed
                        under the black flag, and at times they went into revolt against my authority, because I
                        resolutely refused to engage in enterprises of that sort. I held them down to smuggling. I
                        forbade all forms of robbery, and on the whole, I think my association with them was rather for
                        the good of the community than to its hurt. We robbed the king of England of revenues to which
                        he had no right, but we robbed nobody else. We defied laws made to convert the people of these
                        Colonies into tributaries of a greedy gang of London speculators, and in doing so as I lie here
                        upon my death bed I feel that we did right. We were earlier than the rest of our countrymen in
                        revolting against British oppression. Beyond that I do not see that we were guilty of any crime.
                        When the British law forbade Americans to buy tea elsewhere than from British warehouses, we
                        bought it in Spain or wherever else we could buy it cheapest, and we brought it into the
                        Colonies and sold it openly here. When unjust British laws forbade the Colonists to export their
                        products otherwise than through extortionate British merchants, we undertook their exportation
                        without the extortion. We were rebels a little  in
                        advance of our countrymen, but not otherwise, I sincerely think, were we sinners above them.
                    "Nevertheless, I personally was a criminal. I was a forger. That crime still
                        lies to my charge. Do not interrupt me please," he said seeing that Colonel Alton was
                        about to protest. "I know what you would say. You would say that I have sent you back
                        the money I unjustly took from you. That is true, but, as I said then I say now, the crime
                        remains.
                    "During all these years "here the man broke down from feebleness,
                        and it was necessary to administer restoratives before he could go on, but no persuasion could
                        induce him to relinquish his purpose of continuing his story as soon as he had recovered
                        strength enough to speak. To all entreaties to postpone it he replied, "There is no
                        future time for me. I must do now whatever I am to do. I must say now all that I have to
                        say." When he felt a little stronger he began again:
                    "During all these years I was mainly at sea, or in foreign lands, but I kept
                        myself informed minutely of everything that concerned me in Carolina. I learned that for some
                        reason which I have not yet fathomed, but which I took to be a cowardly fear of vengeance, Tiger
                             Bill Barnegal had never revealed what I had told
                        him of my crime. I learned how you, Colonel Alton, heroically sacrificed yourself and took up
                        the burden which I had laid upon you. I learned how you defied even the power of a court to
                        impoverish and imprison you, rather than expose my crime and bring my helpless and innocent
                        family into disgrace. How I have honored you for your heroism! How I have loved you in their
                        behalf, though to them I am a dead man, as you know.
                    "When I saw Carolina threatened with the invasion that is now upon us, I
                        could no longer resist the impulse that had been strong upon me from the first to join with my
                        countrymen, and do battle for my native land. I came hack to America in company with your son,
                        but without his knowledge of anything concerning me. I separated myself from him almost at the
                        moment of our landing. I begged him then to keep secret the fact of our having been associated
                        even in that way. I did this for his sake, and in order that no revelation of my guilt, should
                        it comeas it easily might-should involve him even indirectly in my shame.
                    "Through your daughter I returned to you the money of which I had robbed
                        you, and through her peril I have at last been enabled to  make some small atonement, perhaps, for the wrong I did you. It is all that I
                        can now do. My hours are numbered, and they are not many. I beg of you to write up to my credit
                        at least the desire to serve you and yours, and I beg of you, in the name and for the sake of my
                        innocent wife and daughter, who have mourned and still monru me as a dead man, that the secret
                        you have kept for so many years may he kept still."
                    With that the dying man ceased. Colonel Alton, sobbing between his words said:
                    "It shall surely be as you wish, my friend. To me there is no past this side
                        of the days of our youth, when you and I were friends. All else is blotted utterly out of my
                        mind and soul. We are living in new times. We are establishing new institutions. We are
                        beginning a new life. We are putting the past behind us. In this republic there is no history
                        back of the republic's birth. Concerning the man whose record in this struggle for
                        liberty is good as yours is, there is no ante-dating evil to be remembered. Liberty looks
                        forward, not backward; up and not down. God Himself accepts atonement as a blotting out of sin.
                        Shall we poor mortals be more relentless than the Arbiter of the universe? I am beginning to see
                             things in a new lightthe new light of liberty.
                        Your secret, nay friend, shall never be made public. That part of your past which you regret has
                        been utterly blotted out by the atonement you have made at cost of your life."
                    He could speak no more. Rising with difficulty to his feet, he hobbled out of the
                        room, leaving Jacqueline and Roger to close the eyes of the friend of his youth, who sank almost
                        instantly into his last sleep.
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    IN which ALTON HOUSE receives VISITORS
                    AFTER Colonel Alton had recovered himself from his passionate emotion, he sent for
                        his son to consult with him.
                    "I have promised our dead friend," he said, "that for the
                        sake of his wife and daughter his secret shall still be kept inviolate, and yet I cannot bear to
                        think of burying him here without their knowledge, leaving his grave forever nameless. It seems
                        to me that the wiser course, and the one he himself would have us pursue, is to send for his
                        wife and daughter and tell the wife at least the full truth. We may tell her as little as
                        possible with regard to her loved" one's sin, as much as possible with regard
                        to his heroic atonement. As for the daughter, I shall leave that to Mrs. Vargave herself. She
                        may do as she pleases. The girl is a thorough-paced gentlewoman, proud, strong, and able to bear
                        such griefs as life may  bring to her. Perhaps it may
                        be best to tell her all, but from the rest of the world we will conceal all. I want you, if you
                        will, to take some of your men as outriders, and go at once to Lonsdale to bring Mrs. Vargave
                        and her daughter hither. We will then quietly lay our friend to rest. It is better that they
                        should be here now, at any rate."
                    "Yes," said Roger, "in the present disturbed state of the
                        community, two women left alone on a remote and isolated plantation without any white man, not
                        even an overseer to call upon for aid, are in a dangerous position. I will go for them father,
                        and, with your permission, will myself tell Helen the whole truth. She has given me her love,
                        and it seems to me she is entitled to hear from my lips, rather than from another'seven
                        from yoursthe sad story that must be told. I now clearly understand how it is you so
                        peremptorily forbade my marriage with Helen, and I understand how hard it was upon you that you
                        could not explain to me the reasons for your course. But that is all past now. Vargave has made
                        atonement with his life, sacrificed in the rescue of Jacqueline from a fate too horrible even to
                        contemplate. You have accepted the atonement in full, and so have I. You have granted him
                        absolution  for his sin against you, and the world
                        knows nothing of his crime. There is now no obstacle, so far as I can see, to the execution of
                        my purpose of marrying Helen."
                    "Wait a minute, my son," broke in Colonel Alton, "you
                        forget. Tiger Bill Barnegal still lives and hates, and still knows the facts in this case. He
                        has been baffled in the revenge he sought by the seizure of Jacquelinefor I am persuaded that
                        this crowning outrage was devised by him and committed under his direction. When, my son, I
                        refused my consent to your marriage with Helen, I told you that my objection was in no remotest
                        way to her. You understand now what I meant by that. I was proud then, and saw things in the
                        light of our old traditions. I can now so far lay them aside as to think of my dead friend as my
                        friend still, and to forget that he ever sinned. But we now have a new duty to do, a duty to
                        which he with his dying breath has invoked us. My duty, as I saw it before, was to protect the
                        Alton name, to forbid a marriage which would have made my grandchildren the grandchildren also
                        of a forger. To-day the forgery is a thing dead, done for, buried and forgotten. So far as we
                        are concerned it does not exist. But Helen has still to be protected. We have  promised him to shield her name, and we must do so
                        at cost of all sacrifice, even though it be the sacrifice of your happiness and hers, my son.
                        While Tiger Bill lives, you must not marry Helen. Should you do so, he would instantly see and
                        seize his opportunity for vengeance. He would publish to the whole world the facts that the dead
                        man in there has asked us to keep sacredly secret for the protection of his wife and
                        daughter."
                    "You are right, father," said Roger. "I see our duty
                        clearly enough, and I see it as you see it. Let it be so. I will go at once to Lonsdale, but
                        first I must make a few arrangements."
                    Leaving his father, Roger went first in search of Jacqueline. To her he hurriedly
                        gave some instructions regarding her own safety.
                    "We have not seen the last of this affair," he said, "but
                        the terrible punishment which my cutthroat allies gave to your captors down there in the swamp
                        at Coosawhatchie will teach them to wait a while before resuming hostilities. In the end,
                        however, it will also anger them and prompt them to still more desperate attempts hereafter. You
                        must be protected. I am going to Lonsdale. I shall ask Charlie Barnegal to look up the survivors
                        of my troop  and recruit it so far as he can in my
                        absence. But the more I think of it, the more necessary it seems to me that you should have
                        protection here at home always within reach.
                    "I like your idea of forming a pickaninny brigade. You already have a supply
                        of arms. I will ask Charlie to look a little to the instruction of your little black soldiers,
                        and to supply you abundantly with ammunition.
                    "Organize and drill the little negroes as thoroughly as you can, and let
                        them learn from the beginning these two things: first, that guns are given to them to fight
                        with, not to throw down when the enemy comes. And, second, that the way to fight successfully is
                        instantly to obey every order given to them by their Good-by, dear, I must talk now with
                        Charlie, and I must be away."
                    "But are you going alone to Lonsdale? Are you going to bring Helen and Mrs.
                        Vargave here without protection on the road in the present disturbed condition of the
                        country?"
                    "No, no," he answered, "I shall pick up three or four
                        trusty fellows whom I know on the way, and we will make a sufficient guard. If necessary, I know
                        where our desperadoes are."
                    
                    Then, seeking out Barnegal, Roger gave him such instructions as he needed, and said
                        to him at parting: "I look to you, old fellow, to have our force as strong when I
                        return as it was before those gallant fellows were killed under your command, and in the present
                        condition of the country I think you will find it easy enough to make it so. The whole
                        countryside has been aroused and alarmed into activity by this escapade. Every young man in the
                        community who has not sworn allegiance to King George, feels that his own home and
                        everybody's home is now in hourly danger. Every one of them, I take it, is ready to
                        fight under the first leader that may summon him. Send out for them, muster them in the swamp,
                        and have them ready against my return. Then you and I will see what we can do toward
                        re-establishing order in this community. Good-by." And with that he swung himself into
                        the saddle on the back of his trusty Bullet, and giving rein to the animal he was gone.
                    He reached Lonsdale just after daylight the next morning. He had ridden the whole
                        eighty miles in fifteen hours, and he patted Bullet on the neck in praise of his superb devotion
                        and endurance; for all of that energy which Bullet had formerly been disposed to expend in  resisting this master of his, was given now to the
                        splendid doing of that master's will. But as Roger, followed by the four armed
                        companions whom he had summoned to his side as an escort, entered the avenue leading up to
                        Lonsdale, he was horrified to see instead of the house, a shapeless and smoking ruin. With an
                        exclamation of horror he said to his men:
                    "The devils have made war upon these two defenceless women. God only knows
                        what they may have done."
                    With that he and his comrades plunged spurs into their horses, instinctively felt of
                        their rifle flints, and with pistols drawn rode at a full run up to what had been the beautiful
                        home.
                    There was nobody there, not even an enemy, and it required some little search through
                        the woodlands round about before they could discover any one even of the house-serving negroes.
                        The one first found was the young black man who had waited upon Roger during his stay at
                        Lonsdale the year before. How eagerly he welcomed the coming of white men whom he knew he could
                        trust, his trembling and eager manner made quickly manifest. With a few hurried questions, Roger
                        learned from him what had happened.
                    
                    "You see, sah," the negro said, "when the damned
                        toriespardon me, massa, I didn't mean to swear"
                    "Oh, swear all you like at them. Go on; what about them?"
                    "When de tories comed hereyou see I seed 'em comin'
                        an' I rushed into de house and almost dragged the Missus and Missee Helen to one of de
                        quahtahs. Den I slipped back over dere in de woods and den I saw a big light, and I knows dey
                        done set fire to de house. Dey didn't get de Missus or Miss Helen. I has got
                        'em hid away in de woods where I don't think even a tory could find
                        'em. But dey got most of de black people, and they done took dem off in a ship. I
                        don't tink more dan one or two of 'em is left besides me, and I suppose de one
                        or two, if dere is any, is hid away somewhere out in de woods, and maybe dey will come back
                        again some day, I don't know. That's all dere is to tell, Massa."
                    In the meantime, Roger's men had been beating the bushes in every direction,
                        hoping there to find some one at least of the marauders. They found none, but they saw that the
                        looting of the plantation had been complete. Everything that was portable and of value in the
                        house seemed to have been carried away before  the
                        building was set on fire. Here and there a bit of silver or other valuable had been dropped by
                        the robbers in their flight, thus marking their trail, and telling the story of their evil
                        deeds. There was nothing to be done but to go with the young negro to the hiding place in which
                        he had bestowed his two mistresses. The poor women had been frightened, of course, but, with the
                        spirit of the high-bred race to which they belonged, they had recovered their equanimity, and
                        now indulged neither in hysterics nor in tearsnot even in bewailing. They welcomed Roger and
                        declared themselves ready to go with him at once to Alton House.
                    "You see," said Helen, with still a touch of playfulness in her
                        manner, "we shan't detain you as we women generally do while we decorate
                        ourselves and pack useless baggage, for we have no decorations left, and no baggage either, and
                        nothing to pack into it if we had. But how are we to go? Those fellows carried off every horse
                        on the plantation, and as they burned the barns the carriages of course are gone too."
                    "You can ride. I think, Helen," said Roger. "You
                        haven't forgotten the lessons that your grandfather taught you. Bullet here has never
                             been trained to pillion service, but you and I
                        together, I am sure, can ride him double. I shall put you on my crupper, and for your mother we
                        will make an arrangement among my men."
                    Mrs. Vargave declared her own ability to ride a-pillion also if a quiet horse could
                        be found in the cavalcade. One of the men instantly responded, pledging his horse to good
                        behavior if Mrs. Vargrave would honor him by accepting a seat on the crupper. The horses were
                        jaded, of course, all but Bullet, but they did their work well, and by stopping over night at a
                        roadside tavern, Roger managed to make the long journey before the end of the next day.
                    He was glad of the necessity of that overnight stop at the tavern. It gave him an
                        opportunity to inform Helen of the sad events that had brought about this journey. He felt that
                        no other could tell her the story of her father's shame and her father's death
                        with so much of tenderness as he could bring to bear, and from no other lips could she receive
                        it with so little pain as from his.
                    She bore it very bravely indeed, but she rejected Roger's suggestion that
                        she should be the bearer of this news to her mother. "That  belongs not to me nor to you, Roger, but to Colonel Alton."
                    So it was arranged. Mrs. Vargave, still in ignorance of what had occurred, rode on to
                        Alton House with the feeling of an animal that had been hunted but is nearing a refuge.
                    Very naturally, Roger avoided all direct reference to their own affairs in his talks
                        with Helen as they jaunted along seated upon the same horse, yet she was left in no doubt of the
                        tenderness of his love, or of his passionate devotion to her, nor could she in her turn, avoid
                        letting him see how entirely he was master of her mind, her soul, her life. She tried hard
                        indeed to avoid such a revelation, for now that it was made additionally certain that no
                        engagement could exist between her and Roger, all the pride of her bringing up prompted her to
                        reticence. Nevertheless, when these two reached Alton House, there was a closer bond of sympathy
                        between them than ever before, and a clearer understanding on the part of each that the tie
                        between them was perfect for all time, whatever their external relations might be.
                    On the arrival at Alton House there was much of agitation, of course. Mrs. Vargave
                        must learn the terrible story which Roger had 
                        already told to Helen. Then there must be the quiet funeral, and then the waiting.
                    Roger scarcely paused for supper before mounting Mad Bess, which he had ordered to be
                        brought to the door, and pushing off into the swamp to find his followers. He felt that he had
                        work to do and no time for delaying. He had explained to Helen that he would not attend the
                        funeral, and she understood that this determination was prompted by a delicate consideration for
                        her mother.
                    "You are right, Roger," she said. "It will be easier for
                        mother if only a very few are present to see my poor erring father laid in his grave."
                    "Don't say that, Helen," said Roger.
                        "Don't think of your father as a poor erring man. All that, as I told you, is
                        past. You are to think now, henceforth and forever of your father as a hero, as one who in life
                        denied himself every joy, risked every danger and endured every hardship to atone for an error
                        committed without evil intent,one who met death at last as only a few heroic souls of this world
                        can meet it. You wrong your father; you wrong me; you wrong those children whom it is my hope
                        that you will some day bear to me, when you hold your father otherwise than in honor.
                    
                    It is a hero that you are about to bury, a nobleman, a gentleman. Teach yourself that
                        lesson, dear, before I come, as I shall come when the time is ripe, to claim you for my
                        wife."
                    And with that he threw himself upon his splendid mare and was gone.
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    MARLEOROUGH brings NEWS
                    AS he had expected. Roger found his band greatly increased in numbers. Thanks to the
                        awakened sense of all-embracing danger in the community, he found nearly forty men ready to
                        answer his call. Not all of them were assembled in the swamp of course. It was part of his
                        tactics indeed to keep but a small body there, and to distribute the rest about among their
                        several homes where they could do the work at once of pickets and scouting men. It was theirs to
                        find out what was going on, and to report it promptly to their commander. It was theirs to
                        answer his summons, whenever their services were needed in more active ways, which was now a
                        thing of very frequent occurrence.
                    In thus summoning them, Roger had adopted and applied a good many of
                        Jacqueline' s devices for silent communication. A litter of leaves at a crossroads, the
                        dead branch of a  tree thrown in apparent
                        carelessness by the roadside; a little dust heap piled as with childish hands; a diminutive
                        bonfire built upon a knollthese and a hundred other signals had each its definite meaning for
                        Roger Alton' s men. And so perfect became the system of quick communication, that
                        within less than an hour at any time he could bring every man of his band to his side. He had no
                        one place of rendezvous even in the swamp, but he had means of indicating on each occasion of
                        need the point at which his men were expected to join him for a foray.
                    Barnegal had already, as he put it, "equipped" Jacqueline'
                        s little army and established her arsenal in one of the wine cellars of Alton House. He went
                        thither frequently on the plea that it was necessary for some one to look after the progress of
                        her young soldiers in their organization and drill, but somehow it usually happened that when he
                        reached Alton House he found the soldierly operations in so good a state of advancement, that he
                        had nothing further to do than sit awhile in converse with Jacqueline. Nevertheless, he refused
                        to relinquish his theory that his presence as a drillmaster was occasionally necessary.
                    It was a very busy time for the next few 
                        weeks. The tories were reinforced presently by a small body of British regulars, who had been
                        sent into that part of the country for the purpose of keeping the loyalists in heart and aiding
                        them in their marauding enterprises. The patriots had become almost ceaselessly active in their
                        endeavors to overawe the tory bands. There were skirmish fights almost daily. Now and then a
                        miniature pitched battle occurred.
                    The operations of Roger's band were no longer confined by any means to the
                        narrow limits of the neighborhood. They made raids sometimes a hundred miles away, and oftener
                        than not they were half that distance up or down the country. They operated sometimes in a
                        single body, sometimes in detachments, according to the need. The one idea that inspired all
                        their activity was to make Carolina too hot to hold the British and their tory allies. Meantime
                        General Marion was in the midst of his splendid career in the upper country, and Sumter was
                        ceaselessly busy, wherever he could find a foe to fight. The British had already learned that
                        their conquest of South Carolina, so far from making an end of war there, marked only its
                        beginning.
                    There came news one day that a body of 
                        British regulars supported by nearly a thousand armed tories, was making more than ordinary
                        trouble at a point near the mountains. A message from Sumter invoked the aid of Roger's
                        band, and that young gentleman, marshalling all his force, hurried to the scene of conflict.
                    For several days the fighting was almost continuous, but each day, so far from
                        diminishing, increased the numbers of the patriots in the field. There were men by hundreds
                        throughout the country who were accustomed to take up arms when fighting was on and to lay them
                        down the moment the fighting was done. There was fighting enough now to call these men to their
                        duty, and to keep them at it pretty continuously.
                    One night, after a day of hard riding and hard fighting, Roger encamped his forcenow
                        numbering somewhat more than fifty menin a little strip of woodland, and threw out his pickets
                        to guard the camp while his men slept upon their arms. He was at supper when there came to him a
                        visitor. He was a man lean and muscular in appearance, wearing a semi-clerical garb composed of
                        long stockings, high boots, knee breeches, and a tow linen coat that reached half way down his
                        legs, but was clerically  cut in the collar. He was a
                        strange figureone that the modern caricaturist would rejoice in, but there was a deep
                        earnestness in his face, and his soft blue eyes had a steely glint in them that meant battle
                        when battle was necessary.
                    He introduced himself to Roger, saying: "I am the pastor of a Presbyterian
                        Church up there in the hills. My parishioners are a God-fearing people, and they are always
                        ready to do God's service when their pastor points out to them what it is. Last Sunday
                        we met for service, when the news came to me of this disturbance down here. I am an Irishman, as
                        you probably guess, and while I hope the divine grace is always present with me, I still have a
                        touch of the old Adam in my soul, and I fear that I was glad, when the devil, on whom it is my
                        business to wage war, came forward in the form of these British and tories. It gives me a
                        chance, you see, to know where my blows fall and when they tell. I did not preach last Sunday.
                        There wasn't much time for it. I adjourned the meeting to the grove outside the church,
                        and told my people what God expected of them. They are simple people, Captain Alton, but if they
                        are plain Irishmen by descent, they are enthusiastic Americans now. I told  the women that they must work a little harder on the farms because I
                        was going to take all the men away to fight, and the women waved their bonnets and hurrahed.
                        Women don't say much in my congregation. We hold to the Pauline doctrine that women
                        should be silent in church, but I knew what their bonnets meant, and so I turned to the men.
                        'There,' I said to them, 'You see what kind of patriots these your
                        womenkind are. So now go you home as quick as you can, and meet me down at the foot of the hill
                        there, all of you armed, every man bringing a little bit of bacon or whatever you have got in
                        your house to live on. Bring it along. Let's have some cornmeal too. And bring your
                        guns, bring a lot of powder, all you have got, do you mind?' It wasn't a very
                        formal sermon, or a very eloquent one, and it had no gospel text, but it did its work. And I am
                        camping over here by you, Captain, with one hundred and twenty men, and every man knows how to
                        shoot straight and every man knows how to stand up in God's service. I tell them every
                        day it is God's service they are doing."
                    By this time, in his excitement, the old man had resumed the brogue of his boyhood
                        out of  which he had so strenuously labored to drill
                        his tongue.*
                        
                            *
                            This is a historic fact.
                        
                    
                    It was in this sort of spirit that the war in Carolina was fought, and the men who
                        fought it were of almost inconceivably different types. There were young planters of
                        aristocratic lineage like Roger Alton, and Charles Barnegal. There were born soldiers like
                        Marion. There were the Scotch-Irish farmers of the mountainsbelieving primarily in the doctrine
                        of predestination that held all events to be unalterably determined "before ever the
                        foundations of the world were laid," men who did their duty with the inspiring sense
                        that every act of theirs was decreed by God himself. There were young roisterers who were
                        inspired almost as much by the love of adventure and of the wild woodland life of partisan
                        service as by sentiments of patriotism, though they held these too, very strongly. And there
                        were desperadoesoutlaws if you likelike those whom Vargave had summoned to Jacqueline's
                        rescue. It was a motley crowd, but heroic in all its parts.
                    On the morning after Roger's meeting with the queerly dad old preacher whom
                        he nick  named Joshua, in memory of that great
                        commander whose authority extended even to the sun in Gibeon and the moon over the vale of
                        Ajalon, the enemy was found to be dispersing. The patriot force was much too strong for it to
                        meet in battle. The tories for the most part disbanded and took to the woods. The British
                        regulars retreated as rapidly as they could, battling as they went, with one patriot band after
                        another assaulting them.
                    It was just then that startling news came to young Alton. It was brought by no less
                        trustworthy a messenger than Marlborough, whose shoulder was still encased in bandages, and
                        whose head was bound until it looked like that of a grand Turk in his turban.
                    "I couldn't wait to get well, Mas' Roger," he
                        said, "because somebody had to find you quick, and I knew Marlborough could do it
                        quicker'n anybody else. Old Tiger Bill has got his people togeder again, and dey have
                        burnt two barns on your plantation. We are expecting them at Alton House every hour, so I
                        thought I would come and just tell you so that you might go back there. Miss Jacqueline she told
                        me to say that if you had duty to do up here she would try and hold the fort until you  got through, but to come as quick as you
                        could."
                    It was not a minute later before Roger had his band in motion, and they rode
                        furiously. But the distance to Alton House was great, and time had been lost of course during
                        Marlborough's search for him.
                    When Roger told Barnegal of the news brought to him by Marlborough, that young man
                        was quick to see the explanation. "The old Tiger," he said, "like the
                        coward that he is, has seized his opportunity. He knows that we are away, and he means if
                        possible to reach and loot Alton House plantations. Let us hurry, Roger. Remember that
                        Jacqueline and Helen Vargave are in danger. What matter if we ride half our horses to death and
                        kill half our men. We must get there in time to save them."
                    In that spirit, and spurred by that impulse, the two young warriors rode like the
                        driving of Jehu, and the faithful fellows in their ranks followed them without murmur or
                        complaint.
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    CAPTAIN JACK'S DEFENCE
                    ROUNG Barnegal had judged rightly. Coward that he was, old Tiger Bill deemed it safe
                        now in the absence of all the patriot bands from the lower country, to indulge in the luxury of
                        a perfect vengeance. He believed it to be certain that no patriot with a gun in his hand
                        remained in the region round about. He regarded Alton House as helplessly defenceless, and so,
                        when he mustered his for its destruction, he for once placed him-self at their head, and took
                        personal charge of the enterprise.
                    He established the headquarters of his party at the wheelwright's shop, and
                        began at once to spread terror throughout the neighborhood. First of all, the outer barns of
                        Alton House were burned by night; this apparently for the sake of torturing the inmates of the
                        mansion with apprehension. Against this method of procedure "Captain Jack"
                        took no  measures whatever. It was obviously useless
                        to do so, and it would serve only to disclose the fact which she wished to conceal, namely, that
                        she had an armed force at her command.
                    Colonel Alton was at this time hardly able to sit in his chair, and his irritation at
                        enforced inaction was not good for the gout that tortured him.
                    The negro wheelwright, who brought to Alton House the first news of the
                        band's approach, was fleeing to the swamps for safety. Nearly all the other negroes on
                        the plantationthose of them at least who worked in the fieldswere doing the same. Their terror
                        of being captured and deported to the West Indies was limitless. They had somehow learned of
                        what happened to negroes who were thus deported to tropical islands. They had somehow found out
                        that slavery was quite a different thing there, a much more horrible servitude than any that
                        existed in the American states; that it was untempered by any touch of patriarchal relations;
                        that in those countries the hireling overseer with his cruel whip stood always between the slave
                        and his master, and that the one thought was to grind out of every man or woman or child the
                        utmost dollar of earning with the minimum of food and shelter  and with no clothing at all. It was a slavery inspired solely by greed of
                        gain, unsoftened by sentiment, unrelieved by any sense of pity. It was into such bondage as this
                        that the British sent every Carolina negro upon whom they could lay their clutches. And from
                        this peril the negroes everywhere were accustomed to flee into the recesses of the swamps,
                        whenever they saw signs of its coming.
                    At Alton House, only the house servants remained. The little company of pickaninnies,
                        dressed in white uniforms with flaming red and yellow trimmings, all of which Jacqueline and
                        Helen had provided to make them proud of themselves and their service, rallied round their young
                        mistress. They had a certain expertness in the use of firearms, as every one had at a time and
                        in a country where the chase was a daily occupation, and the use of gunpowder was almost an
                        instinct.
                    Upon hearing of the impending danger, Cap-ain Jack's first thought was to
                        provision the fortressfor she intended to make a fortress of Alton House and to stand a siege
                        there, certain that if she could hold out long enough strong arms would come to her aid and her
                        rescue. She had all the available pigs and chickens driven into the cellars and near-by 
                        
                            
                                The Defenders of the Fortress.
                        
                         out-houses, where they could be drawn upon in case
                        of need, as a food supply. This had been originally Marlborough's suggestion. At his
                        instance alsofor he had seen something of war by this time, and had learned some of its artsshe
                        had her little negroes dig shallow rifle pits in the grounds around the house, throwing the
                        earth to the front as a sort of parapet. She had so located these pits that it was possible to
                        pass from one to another with very little exposure, and in that way to retreat to the house
                        whenever retreat should become necessary. Shots from these pits, coming apparently out of the
                        earth would be naturally more demoralizing to the approaching foe, especially in the night, than
                        shots emanating from the source whence they might be expected.
                    In all her preparations for defence, Helen Vargave was Jacqueline's
                        efficient lieutenant. Full of suggestiveness, alert, and with a courage that nothing could
                        daunt, Helen was enthusiastic for the fray. "We are soldiers'
                        sweethearts," she said to Jacqueline one day, "and that comes pretty nearly
                        being soldiers, doesn't it? And besides, I am a crack shot. My grandfather taught me
                        that among the other unladylike accomplishments that he instilled  into me to the horror of my governess."
                    It was at Helen's suggestion that an outhouse built of thick planks and
                        heavy timbers was pulled down, and its materials erected into a kind of parapet at the edge of
                        the great piazza. This defence was bullet-proof, and lying behind it, the little black soldiers
                        could do a maximum of damage with a minimum of danger to themselves.
                    Most of the serving women in the household were helpless from the first, but a few of
                        them remained calm enough to help. Two of these constituted themselves picket guards. They were
                        strong young girls, clad in scant skirts and accustomed to run like deer. Taking turns they
                        patrolled around the house and through the grounds throughout the nights of waiting. Each was
                        armed, and each was instructed to fire an alarm when the enemy approached, if there were no
                        other way of giving notice to the garrison, but to run home in silence instead, if there should
                        be time for that.
                    The defenders of the fortress had not to wait long for the assault. It came about
                        midnight when the moon had gone down, and a deadly chill was in the air. Believing that the
                        place was defenceless, or at most, that Colonel Alton  might be able to fire only a single shot or so. Tiger Bill pushed his men straight towards
                        the house by way of the main entrance, screening himself behind them that he might not by any
                        chance receive the one stray shot anticipated.
                    The tories were ill drilled, or rather, not drilled at all, and they came on
                        slouchily, in a loose line, numbering perhaps eighteen or twenty men in all. As they approached
                        the dark and apparently sleeping house, they saw a negro girl rise from the bushes near and
                        scurry away, as they thought, to shelter. A moment later,
                        "Crack-crack-crack-crack-crack!" came from the rifle pits, less than twenty
                        yards in front of them, and two of the men fell riddled with bullets. The rest hastily ran, and
                        as they did so, trampled upon their leader, Tiger Bill, who had received one of the leaden
                        messengers in his body.
                    "Good for you, boys," cried Jacqueline, in low tones as she ran
                        from one rifle pit to another. "Are any of you hurt? "
                    "No missie," said little Dick, the smallest and youngest of her
                        juvenile soldiers. "Those fellows didn't hurt nobody because they
                        didn't git time to fire."
                    The boys wanted to sally out and pursue the enemy, as they knew white soldiers often
                        did  when the enemy retreated under fire, but
                        Jacqueline was too prudent for that.
                    "They will come back," she said, "and they will fire next
                        time. They are angry now."
                    With that, she took two or three of the boys with her and going to the point where
                        the tories had received the fire, made a search for wounded men. She found two dead ones whom it
                        was not worth while to waste time upon. She found another evidently wounded, crawling on hands
                        and knees. Presenting her gun at his head, she bade him halt, and called for help from the
                        house. Some strong young arms seized upon the wounded man in the darkness, and carried him
                        bodily into the hallway. It was too dark to see him, for every light had been extinguished, and
                        Jacqueline had no notion of relighting any of the torches while the danger should remain. So she
                        directed those of the housemaids whose terror permitted them to be of no other service, to carry
                        the man above stairs into a rear room, and there to light candles.
                    "We must look a little to his wounds," she said, "if they
                        give us a minute for that." In the meantime she returned to the piazza where she found
                        Colonel Alton. He had had himself wheeled out in his armchair, and now sat with  his ammunition pockets slung from his shoulders as
                        if for the hunt, and his shot gun at full cock, lying across his knees. His gouty feet in the
                        meantime were snugly resting on a pillow on top of the little board parapet before mentioned.
                    "What are you doing here, father? Why are you not in your room? It will kill
                        you to be exposed in this night air."
                    "Do you suppose, daughter, that an old soldier like me concerns himself much
                        about night air, and little things like that? I am a bit helpless to get about without
                        assistance, but I can sit here and shoot the next time those fellows come, and I have come here
                        to do it. You go on with your work, dear. But if I were you. I would withdraw half your boys
                        from the rifle pits, leaving only one or two in each. It is not well to expose your entire line
                        in front, with no reserve to fall back upon."
                    The girl acted at once upon the advice of the old commander, who, in losing the use
                        of his legs, had not lost his skill in the art of war. This new disposition had hardly been
                        made, when the tories appeared again, firing this time into the darkness and wildly. Under
                        Colonel Alton's direction, the defenders in the piazza reserved their fire, the boys in
                        the rifle  pits delivering theirs as rapidly as they
                        might, and then, under directions previously given them, slipping back to the house. The tories
                        were apparently deceived as to the location of the defence. They emptied their guns at the
                        points where the rifle pits were situated, because from those points alone had come any
                        resistance. The rifles of that day were flint-locked, muzzle loaded affairs unprovided with
                        cartridges, and loaded only by the measuring out and pouring in of powder, and then by a rather
                        difficult pushing home of a leaden ball surrounded by a bit of greasy cloth called a
                        "patching". A gun once emptied was innocent of harm until it could be
                        reloaded, a matter requiring from half a minute to two minutes, according to the coolness or
                        excitement of the man handling the weapon.
                    At Helen's suggestion, Jacqueline had had enough pikes madelong spears of
                        wood, shod at the end with sharp-pointed steelto arm all her force in case of the failure of
                        ammunition.
                    With the instinct of the old soldier strong in him, Colonel Alton seized upon the
                        moment when the tories had emptied their guns, and himself took command although he could not
                        rise. With quick, sharp orders to Jack he directed 
                        operations. The boys fired their guns at short range into the already confused ranks of the
                        tories, and then seizing their pikes sallied forth at a run, and dashed headlong upon the enemy.
                    It was the work of but a moment, but it was effective. Half a minute later not an
                        un-wounded tory remained in the Alton House grounds. The boys returned, promptly reloaded their
                        guns, and stood ready for another assault. But no other came during that night, nor did Colonel
                        Alton think another would be made for the present. He knew enough of the moods that govern
                        undisciplined men in fighting, to know that two such repulses as had been given to this band
                        would work a demoralization from which it would take time and effort for them to recover. He
                        suggested to Jacqueline, therefore, that she go at once to the wounded man's bedside,
                        and ascertain if anything could be done for him.
                    To her horror she discovered that the man was none other than Tiger Bill himself! His
                        wounds were apparently not very serious, but his habits of life were against him. Soaked with
                        brandy as he had been for years his nervous system could endure but little of shock, and by the
                        time that Jacqueline reached his  bedside he was
                        raving like a madman, in an attack of delirium tremens. It required two or three pairs of strong
                        arms to restrain him, but these fortunately were furnished by negro women unfit to serve as a
                        part of the defensive force.
                    When the facts were reported to Colonel Alton, he said to Jack: "They will
                        not come again to-night, my dear, and I doubt if they come again at all. They have lost their
                        leader, and that, to a crowd of this kind, usually means dispersion."
                    His conjecture was right so far as a renewal of assault that night was concerned.
                        Jack's little negroes had proved themselves good fighting men, but to save their lives
                        they could not conquer their racial disposition to fall into profound slumber the moment they
                        grew still. They were good soldiers but bad sentinels, so Captain Jack bade them sleep on their
                        arms where they were, and she and Helen alone guarded the camp throughout the night.
                    The next day, scouts were sent out to learn what the enemy might be doing, and if
                        possible to bring a surgeon to the house to attend upon Tiger Bill. The surgeon came and brought
                        with him the information desired.
                    He was a little old man oddly dressed in a  fashion even then antiquated. In his disposition, an uncontrollable irascibility and an
                        instinctive gentleness were always at war with each other for the mastery. He punctuated all his
                        sentences with "damns" and interlarded them with gently caressing phrases. His
                        attitude toward each human being was either one of intense antagonism and disgusted contempt, or
                        one of exceeding tenderness and affection. And just now the mingled manifestation of his
                        loathing for old Tiger Bill and his caressing affection for Jacqueline and Helen was still
                        further complicated by his surgeon's instinct of mercy to a patient. His words would
                        scarcely bear repetition here, but as he worked over the old man's wounds a continual
                        tide of pattering vituperation flowed from his lips, interrupted now and then by exclamations of
                        pity.
                    "You deserve all you got, you damned old Ah, poor fellow, that hurt you,
                        didn't it? I couldn't help it. After all I am glad I did it, you old
                        scoundrelThere, dear," (turning to Jacqueline) "don't stand so close
                        to the bed. It pains you I knowI had to open that artery, but I guess after all I must tie it
                        up, or the poor fellow will be dead in a few minutes, and serve him right too, confound himDo,
                        dear young lady, leave the room and leave this old 
                        villain to me. I will take care of him.No, no, I don't mean I will do him any harmnot
                        as a surgeon at least."And so he rattled on and on and on.
                    When he was through, he turned to Jacqueline and said: "He will get well of
                        his wounds easy enough, if his jimjams do not return. Of course I must take care of that. Have
                        you any opium in the house, my dear?"
                    Overstrained as she was, suffering from want of sleep, full of apprehension, and
                        instinctively sympathizing with the old man in his sufferings, Jacqueline nevertheless could not
                        restrain her laughter at the comical chatter of the pudgy little old doctor. But in the end her
                        indignation conquered her other emotions, as soon, at least, as the surgeon had reported old
                        Tiger Bill out of danger.
                    "I am glad of that of course," she said, to Helen, "but I
                        don't think I ought to be. Think of it, Helen, that old beast coining here like a
                        coward at the head of armed ruffians to make war upon a helpless invalid like my father, and a
                        lot of women like us! Thank God, we have been able to beat him at that game anyhow!"
                        Then turning to her maid, she said: "Stay here, Molly, and if we are wanted,  any of us, call us. We must go and get some
                        sleep."
                    But first of all she inspected the defences of the house. She saw to it that each of
                        her young soldiers received his proper meed of praise, reinforced by a hearty breakfast and a
                        replenished bullet-pouch. Then throwing herself upon a joggling boardfor she would not leave the
                        piazza until the danger should be utterly pastshe fell into a profound slumber as other military
                        commanders have done in intervals between their periods of strenuous, soldierly work.
                    With the coming of night, the watchfulness was resumed again. The boys were returned
                        about nine o'clock to their rifle pits, and each of them was furnished with a great
                        bowl of strong, steaming coffee, in order that they might remain awake during their tour of
                        duty. They had slept practically all day, and had they been of a race other than their own,
                        sleep would now have been impossible to them even without the caffeine stimulant. But Jacqueline
                        knew their tendency to somnolence when inactive, too well to trust them under such
                        circumstances. From time to time she went through the rifle pits chatting a little in order to
                        arouse  her soldiers, and replenishing their coffee
                        bowls. In this way she kept them on the alert, resorting now and then to the little trick of
                        pretending to hear the enemy coming by way of additionally stimulating wakefulness.
                    This time the night passed nearly away without an alarm. It was almost daylight, when
                        from the fig orchard lying upon the easterly side of the house, the tories suddenly appeared and
                        made a furious dash to gain the piazza. Had they accomplished this, their success in overcoming
                        resistance would have been almost certain. Only half the little force was stationed behind the
                        wooden parapet. The rest, as we know, were in the rifle pits in front. But Jacqueline had
                        foreseen a situation of this kind, and had carefully instructed her little negroes in
                        anticipation of it. She blew a little whistle twice. That, by preconcerted agreement, informed
                        the young soldiers that the enemy was coming from the east, and it ordered them also to retire
                        by way of the west from the rifle pits to the porch. They came as a timely reinforcement just
                        after their comrades behind the defences had emptied their guns; and their second volley, coming
                        unexpectedly to their enemies after they had supposed all the defensive  rifles emptied, drove the tories back into the fig orchard.
                    By this time the day was dawning, and Jacqueline could see that the force in the
                        orchard was much greater than that which she had succeeded in repelling on the night before. She
                        had little hope now of making her resistance long successful. For the men in the bushes spread
                        themselves out in open order and seized upon every point from which they could fight behind
                        shelter. Hencoops, kitchen chimneys, large trees, negro quarters, and even the curb of the well
                        became breastworks for the enemy. From these they poured an irregular but most annoying fire
                        into the piazza, which of course was open and exposed except for its low, plank defence.
                        Jack's little negroes stood their ground most manfully.
                    "Poor fellows," she said to herself, "their courage will
                        cost them dear, but it is better that they should die here fighting, than fall into the hands of
                        those men."
                    So she kept them at work loading as rapidly as they could, and under her direction
                        reserving their fire until heads were exposed from behind the barriers occupied by the enemy.
                    "Do not waste your bullets," she presently  enjoined the boys. "Do not shoot until you see something to
                        hit."
                    Nevertheless, the enemy was steadily gaining an advantage. A squad of them would now
                        and then quit the shelter from behind which they had been fighting, and hurriedly gain another
                        nearer at hand. In this way they were slowly but surely encompassing the mansion to its fall.
                    A fierce fusilade was now coming from behind a log building used as a kitchen, and
                        standing only thirty or forty feet distant from the house. Between it and the house was a
                        smaller building where stores were kept. Should the enemy gain this, further resistance would be
                        impossible, and Helen, seeing the situation, said to Jack:
                    "I am going to burn them out of that kitchen." With that she seized
                        and lighted two of the great pine torches in the dining room, and crouching low to the ground,
                        ran quickly to the little storehouse. She waited within it for her opportunity, and, passing
                        through, she ran to the kitchen building, climbed up the logs that formed its walls, and
                        thrusting the torches through the window of the little upper sleeping-room, plunged them into
                        the straw of the cook's mattress. Dropping instantly to the  ground she retreated to the house under a shower of bullets, but
                        happily received no harm. In half a minute the kitchen was wrapped in flames, and the men who
                        had been hidden behind it, scampered hastily to the shelter of the big trees behind.
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    FIRE and SWORD
                    THE one problem set Roger Alton to solve was to outride Time itself in his dash
                        homeward. As was his custom, he kept silent for a time as the cavalcade thundered forward, and
                        tried to think out all the conditions that might cause delay, and all the devices that might
                        help haste. At the top of a hill he halted his men to breathe their horses, and during the brief
                        wait he gave them some hurried orders.
                    The news of what was happening at Alton House had quickly spread among them from
                        those of them who had been present when Marlborough delivered his message. They knew what their
                        mission was, and they were eager to perform it well; for besides being soldiers, earnest in
                        their work, and Americans full of implacable hatred to the toriesand especially to Tiger
                        Billthey were devoted to  their young leader with a
                        loyalty that knew no bounds. Roger said to them:
                    "Men, we are going to ride night and day. We have enough in our food-bags to
                        keep us from starving, but we are likely to ride our horses to death. Let every man of you
                        change his horse for a fresher one whenever he has an opportunity. Leave the old one in
                        exchange, and tell the owner of the new one that if he is not satisfied with the trade, Roger
                        Alton will pay full price in gold for every horse taken. Tell them to come to me when this dash
                        is over, and I will satisfy their utmost demands. But take the horses anyhow."
                    "And say also," said young Barnegal, "that Charles
                        Barnegal goes Roger Alton's security for every dollar. I pledge every acre of land that
                        I own, and every shilling I have on earth in this behalf. But keep yourselves well mounted, and
                        keep together as well as you can." With that they dashed forward again.
                    Night and day they rode without ceasing, scarcely pausing even to give their horses
                        breath, and when one of them dropped out of the ranks to get water, or to exchange his horse for
                        a better one, he was not long in rejoining the band.
                    Fortunately, no enemy was encountered on 
                        the way to delay them, and fortunately too they had Marlborough for their guide. The young negro
                        had been a ceaseless night hunter since his early boyhood. He had followed raccoons and opossums
                        through all the woods within twenty miles of Alton House, and on the blackest night that ever
                        came could thread his way successfully through every swamp and woodland.
                    Roger called him to his side as they reached the region over which he knew that
                        Marlborough's sporting proclivities had made him master. He said to him:
                        "Marlborough, we want the shortest cuts. Never mind the roads when you know a quicker
                        way. The thing is to get there."
                    "I can save ten miles at least," answered Marlborough,
                        "and between you and me, Mas' Roger, my head aches so bad that I am in a hurry
                        to get to Alton House."
                    With that effort to disguise his emotion by pretended levity, the black young giant
                        burst into tears and wept like a woman. For explanation, when he had conquered his emotion, he
                        said: "Mas' Roger, you must excuse me, but I cannot help thinking what mought
                        be happenin' at Alton House. Can't we ride faster, Mas'
                        Roger?"
                    
                    Three o'clock on New Year's morning found the band at the edge of a
                        swamp ten miles from Alton House, as the crow flies, fifteen at least by way of the nearest
                        traveled road. Here Marlborough said to his master: "Will you blow de horses a bit,
                        while I goes into de bushes? I think mebbe I can find something."
                    Sure of the negro's loyalty and confident of his sagacity, Roger bade him go
                        on the proposed search. He dismounted and was gone for perhaps ten minutes, until his master
                        became impatient of the delay and was about to move forward when he reappeared.
                    "I'se found it, sah, I thought It was here. I can lead you now
                        through de swamp. Dere's a little ole hut down there that I built once for some
                        hunters. From there on for the next five miles I can follow de bank of de creek, though de water
                        is a good deal out just now, and you may have to ride up to your stirrups now and then, or mebbe
                        swim a little. It will save five miles at least, and when we gets out o' de swamp,
                        we'll have hard open pine land for de rest o' de way."
                    "Are you sure that you can find the way. We don't want to get lost
                        in the swamp."
                    "Suah, sah. I've tramped it many a time when I had to wade up to my
                        armpits. You  won't get lost if you foller
                        me, and you won't lose o time, nuther."
                    With that he mounted and led the way, the men riding behind in single file, for after
                        all it was scarcely more than a squirrel path, broken through dense cane and among the
                        overhanging vines, that Marlborough was now threading. With a precision that seemed almost
                        miraculous, the negro picked his way in the intense darkness through a morass that few white men
                        would have been able to pass even in the brightest day. Half an hour of struggle with vines and
                        cane, half an hour of floundering in mires and pushing through water of varying depths, brought
                        the party at last to the farther limit of the swamp and into the pine land. There they renewed
                        the gallop, and pushing forward in a course as straight as the flight of a bee, came in a little
                        while longer into the open fields of the Alton House plantation. Here Roger was at home and
                        needed no further guidance.
                    Just as the day was breaking he heard the sound of guns. His men heard it too, and
                        like madmen they dashed forward pell-mell waiting for no leadership, every man pushing his horse
                        to his utmost in his effort to gain the front and save time. Now and then a horse  fell exhausted. His rider would throw himself, arms
                        and all, upon the crupper of a companion's steed. Still it was on, on, on, they went,
                        no man thinking of himself or of anything in the world except the rescue of the helpless women
                        assailed by cowards at Alton House.
                    As they approached nearer, a sudden burst of flame greeted their eyes.
                    "They have fired the house," said Barnegal.
                    "Yes, and God knows," said Roger, "what has happened
                        first. I know that Jack has made the stoutest resistance she could, but they have beaten her and
                        got possession."
                    The words were muttered between his teeth with a note of intended vengeance in every
                        syllable. The men too were excited, and angry beyond their customary resource of swearing. They
                        gritted their teeth and rode silently, every man thinking of the vengeance he meant to wreak as
                        soon as his over-taxed animal could bear him to the scene of action.
                    Without pausing to form in any regular order, Roger led his men through the garden
                        beds, over the glass of the cold frames, through a fence which Bullet crushed with his chest as
                        he came upon it unawares, into the midst of the tories in the fig orchard.
                    
                    He saw in an instant that the enemy had not in fact gained possession of the house,
                        that Jacqueline was still holding out, and in order that she might know that rescue was at hand,
                        and in order also that her young riflemen might not pour a volley into his own band, he blew a
                        blast which he knew she would recognize, upon the silver-mounted huntsman's horn that
                        he always carried slung over his shoulder, and used in lieu of a bugle.
                    At that instant his men fell upon the tories with a savagery and determination not
                        less destructive in its purpose than that of the war painted wild Indian. Such of the tories as
                        did not fall at the first onset, threw down their arms, and threw up their hands begging for
                        quarter.
                    Roger and young Barnegal called to their men that the enemy had surrendered, but
                        Burton the bullet-headed, turned to the men nearest him with the laconic remark:
                    "Surrender be damned!"
                    The men understood him, and they shared his impulse. In the fury of their excitement
                        and anger they were determined to leave no man of all that tory band alive. Right and left they
                        dealt their sabre-strokes, and it was only by placing himself between them and the  little squad which was all that remained of the
                        enemy, that Roger at last succeeded in stopping the slaughter, and rescuing five of the men
                        alive as prisoners.
                    For weeks and months afterwards Burton and the men who had been around him in the
                        melee used to wonder over their camp fires "why on airth Cap'n Alton dun it.
                        Why on airth didn't he let us finish the job while we wuz at it? Whoever hearn of
                        giving quarter to rattlesnakes, or takin' mad dogs prisoners?"
                    "Waal," answered one of the men, "of course I agree with
                        you. I ain't got no use at all fer lettin' a man live when he's a
                        coward and fights wimmin. But you know, the Cap'n's more differenter.
                        He's eddicated, an' somehow eddication makes a fellow soft-like in his
                        insides."
                    "Who says Cap'n Alton's soft-like?" spoke up one
                        of the men in obvious resentment.
                    "Oh, I didn't mean," responded the other, "I
                        didn't mean just what you think. He's got grit, Cap'n Alton has.
                        He's got sand in his gizzard if ever a man had in this worldI don't mean
                        thatbut when he's got the other fellow down, he won't kick him, even if he
                        knows him to be a coward."
                    "Somehow, I can't help liking that in him,"  said another one of the party, "though of
                        course we can't rise to it, as the lawyers say in court. We can't quite
                        understand it, but I guess arter all, it's right. Them fellers had give up, and you bet
                        'fore Cap'n Alton let 'em go, they wusn't in any condition
                        to fight again."
                    "What did he do with 'em?" asked another.
                    "He turned 'em over to some of Sumter's men, and they took
                        'em off up country. I reckon they's prisoners somewheres now. Anyhow, they
                        ain't in the business of fightin' women no more, and I guess there
                        won't be much more of that sort of fightin' down in our part of the
                        country."
                    But this is getting ahead of our story.
                    The moment Roger had secured his prisoners against harm, he directed Burton with a
                        squad of men to scour the grounds about the house and the fields for a mile away.
                    "See that there's nobody left with a gun," he said to his
                        follower.
                    Burton, biting off a large mouthful of tobacco responded with the quite unmilitary
                        but entirely characteristic remark: "You bet."
                    Then Roger and Barnegal hurried to the house and met Jacqueline and Helen at the
                        entrance. Both were agitated after the terrible 
                        experience they had been through, but both were radiant with the sense of victory. Hurried
                        greetings were followed by equally hurried inquiries on the part of the two young men as to the
                        amount of damage done.
                    Two of the brave little black fellows who had so stubbornly defended the mansion were
                        lying on improvised cots, and the little old doctor who had remained at the house after his
                        first summons, attended their wounds. None had been killed, but the physician would not answer
                        yet for the results in the case of these two. "Fortunately," he said,
                        "they will have good nursing, anyhow," and with that the old man went off
                        talking more to himself than to anybody else, and talking mainly in terms of profanity
                        concerning the dastardly outrage that had been committed.
                    "Damn it, Captain Alton," he said, suddenly, "I am afraid
                        I have saved the life of the old miscreant that brought it all about. I have done my best for
                        old Tiger Bill, and damn him, I believe he is going to get well."
                    At this moment a negro woman rushed into the front room where this conversation was
                        being held, and announced that Alton House was on fire. The flames which had served so well in
                        repelling the attack of the tories had been  caught
                        by the wind and carried to the mansion itself.
                    Roger's first care was to rescue the inmates of the house, particularly the
                        wounded. The two stricken pickaninny soldiers were carried by their comrades to a negro cabin,
                        but it was a much more difficult task to rescue Tiger Bill. He had grown stout in his later
                        years for one thing, and at the first excitement of the fire he had become hysterical. Yet after
                        some difficulty he was sufficiently controlled to be carried to a place of safety. The little
                        old doctor expressed the devout hope that perhaps some of his wounds had been opened in the
                        process, and then went to bind them up in the event that that should prove to be so.
                    All possible aid was summoned, including all of Roger's mento extinguish the
                        fire, but a very few minutes' work showed clearly that there was no hope of
                        accomplishing that; attention was given instead to the saving of such valuables as could be
                        easily and quickly removed.
                    Before the traditional breakfast hour of Alton House had come, there was nothing left
                        of Alton House but the splendid thickness of its massive walls. Jacqueline, who had borne up
                        bravely in danger gave way completely as  she saw the
                        destruction wrought upon her home.
                    When all was done that could be done, and Colonel Alton had been comfortably
                        installed in his wheel-chair in an outhouse Roger called his band to arms, and set out upon the
                        work that he now appointed to himself.
                    "I mean to clear this whole region of tories," he said.
                        "The fighting is growing vigorous in the North and the British are drawing away all of
                        their regulars that have hitherto been scattered about the country to encourage and lead these
                        tory raids. The tories, left to themselves, will not accomplish much, I fancy. At any rate, we
                        will leave none of them here with a gun in possession or within reach."
                    Leaving young Barnegal to comfort Jacqueline and to superintend such arrangements as
                        must now be made for the comfort of the household, Roger took his departure without waiting even
                        for such breakfast as could be prepared.
                    Just before he went the old doctor came to him, his eyes positively sparkling with
                        delight.
                    "It has done for him, Captain Alton; I am sure it has done for him, damn
                        him. I have got his wounds all right, but this last frighthe's an awful coward
                        isn't he?has brought back his jimjams, and upon my word I don't  believe I shall be able to conquer them. At any
                        rate, if I do, I will give you notice somehow so you can hold him prisoner."
                    Roger knew the necessity of holding the old man prisoner. He knew how certainly the
                        men under his own command would have taken him out and hanged him to the nearest tree if they
                        had been permitted to get at him. So he was glad enough to draw off his force, and occupy them
                        in other and more legitimate ways.
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    THE PAPERS in the CASE
                    THE doctor's prognosis proved correct. Old Barnegal, in spite of all that
                        could be done for him, remained a raving maniac for two days longer, and then died in a spasm,
                        the severity of which awakened the pity even of the doctor himself.
                    For young Barnegal this event of course created a totally new situation. He sent a
                        messenger to inform Roger of his plans, so that he might be summoned to his commander's
                        side in the event of need, and then went at once to the lawyer who had long had charge of his
                        uncle's affairs. He found him a man scrupulously exact in everything, from the tying of
                        his or the polishing of his finger nails, to the indexing and classifying and digestion of
                        documents.
                    After Barnegal had told him of Tiger Bill's deatha bit of news which the old
                        gentleman received without the slightest sign of emotion  of any kind,the lawyer said to the young man:
                    "You of course are the only heir. There are no other relatives to divide the
                        estate with you, and certainly none to dispute your right to the succession. I see no reason why
                        you should not go to The Live Oaks and take possession at once. As for the legal formalities, if
                        you desire me, Mr. Barnegal, to continue in my capacity as counsel to the estate, I will arrange
                        them with very little trouble to you. I shall ask you now and then for your signaturethat is
                        all.
                    "But," said young Barnegal, "What if there is a will? My
                        uncle never intended to die, leaving his estate to me, I know."
                    "I presume not," answered the lawyer. "In fact, I have
                        gathered that much from time to time from hiswell, let us call it his conversation if you
                        willbut still I tell you there is no will. The fact is, that your uncle was a person much under
                        the domination of superstition. He had an impressionwhich I find common enough among men of his
                        temperament and well let me say his habitsthat the making of a will is apt to prove the
                        precursor of an early death. He often talked with me on the subject and often declared his
                        purpose presently to attend to that business. But I assure you. he  never did so. I have all his papers in charge here in my office."
                        And opening a case marked "William Barnegal," he showed within an orderly
                        array of documents, each carefully folded and endorsed, and all of them neatly tied with red
                        tape into bundles, each bundle reposing in a carefully labeled pigeon-hole of its own.
                    "By the way," said the man of law, taking out one of these parcels,
                        "Here are some documents which it may be of interest to you to examine at your earliest
                        leisure. They belong of right to you. They belonged to you of right while your uncle lived,
                        though I could never persuade him to let me give them to you. He always intended instead to
                        destroy them in order that they might never fall into your hands. Fortunately, I have been able
                        to prevent that. He has believed for many months past that he had destroyed them. He was
                        confident in his own mind that he had burned them in the dining-room fire at the Live Oaks,
                        where he did in fact burn copies of them which I had carefully made, and which, when he demanded
                        the documents at my hands for the purpose of destroying them, I substituted for the originals.
                        You know the old gentleman's well, let us say, umunfortunate habits in  life. On the day in question, I went to him on a
                        summons demanding that I bring these documents to him. Foreseeing his purpose, and realizing how
                        unjust to you it would be to permit their destruction, I bound up copies in a bundle precisely
                        similar to this, labeled it as this is labeled, and going to him, earnestly entreated him not to
                        destroy the papers. He grew angry with mefor indeed on that day he was rather more underum, let
                        us say the influence of stimulantsthan usual. As I argued, and pleaded, withholding the papers,
                        or seeming to withhold them, he grew hotter and at last he snatched the parcel from my hand,
                        glanced at the superscription, and tossed the whole into the fire. Naturally, I did not tell him
                        of the mistake he had made, or of the substitution which I had felt it my duty to practice. I,
                        umlet us saysimulated regret at the catastrophe, and after a while I left him. Thus you see the
                        original documents which I know concern you in very vitally important ways, have remained in my
                        possession, and I have now the pleasure of delivering them into your hands. No, don't
                        open them now, please," seeing that Barnegal in his eagerness was about to cut the red
                        tape ligatures, "don't open them now, please, but when you are quite calm.
                        These  documents are partly in English and partly in
                        Spanish; but mainly they are in French, a language which I believe you read with reasonable
                        ease." Barnegal signified that lie did. "Supposing that your knowledge of
                        Spanish was"
                    "I know nothing whatever of Spanish," said Barnegal.
                    "Ah, so I feared," said the man of law, "and, as I was
                        about to say, anticipating that difficulty, I have been at pains to make careful translations of
                        the Spanish documents into English, placing them each with its original in order that you might
                        have no trouble in going through the whole in consecutive order. Let me urge upon you to read
                        them only in that way. It would produce confusion even in a legally trained mind to examine them
                        otherwise than in their proper order. You will go at once to The Live Oaks, I presume?"
                    Barnegal signified his intention of doing so.
                    "Very well. You will perhaps have need to consult me now and then in order
                        to learn matters of business detail which it would be important for you, as the new master of
                        the estate, to know. Pray call upon me whenever you wish. Your uncle's papers at homeif
                        he left anywill afford you probably little if any assistance in elucidating his affairs. He was
                        a  careless person in such maters, as I have had
                        frequent occasion to observe, and in view of that fact I have for some years pastin fact ever
                        sincewell, let us say, um, ever sincewell, ever since hisunfortunate appetites if I may so
                        characterize themgot the better of his discretion, I have made it a practice to possess myself
                        of every written document belonging to him which might at any time be needed in the settlement
                        of his affairs. No, no, you mistake me, if you suppose I have done this surreptitiously. I have
                        in each case notified him that I had taken the paper, and would hold it subject to his
                        examination at any time. I did so conscientiously in the discharge of my duties as his
                        solicitor. It was with respect to those documents that you have in your pocket and which he
                        wished to destroyit was with respect to them alone that I was,that I ever practised, well, let
                        us sayreserve in dealing with him, and I felt myself justified in doing so, as I have tried to
                        explain to you, by my consciousness that the documents in question belonged to you rather than
                        to him, and that in any case he had no right to destroy them. In the absence of such a right, it
                        was my duty to prevent him from doing an act which, if not quite criminal, would have bordered
                        so nearly  upon crime as to bewell, let us say at the
                        leastregrettable."
                    And so, with a laborious precision which amused while it annoyed the impatient young
                        man, the lawyer laid before him every fact and consideration which he deemed it necessary then
                        to communicate, stating each with as minute care, and as much exactitude of phrase as if he had
                        been writing documents to be presently submitted to the scrutiny of a chancery court.
                    When young Barnegal entered the mansion of The Live Oaks, whose late master lay still
                        unburied at Alton House, he found among the servants there no indication of sorrow at their
                        master's death. On the contrary, those who had been his immediate servitorsthe
                        household peoplequickly gathered in the hall to welcome their new master with faces that
                        indicated only joy in the change.
                    When the young man had spoken a few words to them, and sent them away about their
                        several businesses, he wandered for a little while through the empty rooms, keenly feeling their
                        desolate loneliness, and after a time finding himself moved to some small degree at least of
                        pity for the man who had so long lived there with no companionship but that of his  own evil temper, no associates but his own unhappy
                        moods.
                    "What a life it must have been!" he exclaimed to himself.
                        "For years this uncle of mine has dwelt here with no family, no wife, no children, no
                        relatives, and even no visitors, I doubt if any white man has crossed his threshold in
                        friendship for a dozen years at least. What a life, what a life, what a life! Tragedy would be
                        light reading in comparison with the story of it."
                    But it was now quite dark, and the young man, finding no bell anywhere rapped upon
                        the table for one of the servants to come to him, unconsciously using the signal to which the
                        dead man had so long accustomed those about him. The negro boy was startled at first by the
                        thought that it was his late master's ghost that had summoned him. He entered with face
                        and lips of that peculiar hue which in black men takes the place of pallor. Young Barnegal
                        ordered lights, and the servant announced that supper was served in the dining-room. The youth
                        had fasted since early morning, and had made a long journey on horseback, but until now he had
                        not thought of food, so that he was surprised when he recognized his own famished condition.
                    
                    Hastily despatching his supper, he bade the servants clear away the table furniture,
                        bring abundant lights and leave him alone. "If I want you I will call you," he
                        said. Then he sat himself down and opened the bundle which he knew held his fate.
                    Taking up the first paper, he found it to be in the lawyer's handwriting. It
                        read as follows in its introduction:
                    "There are nine papers in this parcel. They are the property of Charles
                        Barnegal, the younger, the son and successor of the late Charles Barnegal, and in the event of
                        my death they should be placed in his hands without examination. These papers relate solely to
                        the question of the legitimacy of the said Charles Barnegal, the younger. They are papers
                        written long before that gentleman was born and cherished for a time by the relatives of his
                        mother in France. Later they came into possession of William Barnegal, his uncle, who claimed
                        them on the occasion of a death in France, and took possession of them in his capacity as
                        guardian for his nephew, the said Charles Barnegal, the younger."
                    Then followed a precise schedule of the papers in the bundle and a synopsis of each
                        of them in its turn, which Barnegal ran through  with
                        constantly increasing excitement. Before he had finished his perusal of this first document, his
                        eyes were aflame and his tongue parched. He looked up from his work in search of water, and
                        found instead a tray carefully set out with a decanter of brandy and accompanying glasses. The
                        sight recalled him to himself, and with an amused smile he muttered "Obviously the
                        habits of the late owner of The Live Oaks were well understood by his servitors, and they do not
                        know how completely they have died with him." With that he rapped upon the table, bade
                        the boy remove the liquor and bring fresh water in its stead. The young negro in astonishment
                        glanced at the decanter, and saw that its contents were still untouched. After he had served his
                        master with the water demanded, the boy hastened to the kitchen to relate this wonderful news to
                        the other servants gathered there.
                    Barnegal proceeded to read the papers mentioned in the schedule. The first was a
                        letter from Emile Gamier to Charles Barnegal. "From my maternal grandfather,"
                        the young man said to himself, "to my father." It was in French and read as
                        follows: 
                            "My notary informs me of certain matters which it will be necessary
                                for you to explain to me before I  can
                                proceed further with our negotiations for your marriage with my daughter. Information
                                has been given me from no less authoritative a source than your brother, Mr. William
                                Barnegal, to the effect that two years and four months ago you were married in Madrid to
                                a woman whose name Mr. William Barnegal does not know; that she was a woman far beneath
                                you in social status, ignorant, and perhaps depraved; that after a brief infatuation you
                                quitted her or she quitted you, and you came to France. There is no intimation from your
                                brother that this woman is dead. If not, she must still be your wife and you are not
                                free to marry any other woman. Permit me, sir, to hope that there is some error in this
                                information, for I am loath to believe that you would be capable of asking for the hand
                                of a pure and highly-bred young woman, knowing yourself to be already a married
                                man."
                        
                    
                    There, with the usual formalities of signature and address, the letter ended.
                    The next document was the reply to this letter. In it young Barnegal's
                        father, then himself a young man, had written briefly, saying: 
                            "In answer to your inquiries, I beg to say that if you will give me
                                sufficient time, I will secure from Madrid and lay before you quite satisfactory
                                evidence of the essential falsity of the information given to you concerning me. I will
                                show you that at the time of my supposed marriage to a Spanish woman who called herself
                                Maria Ruiz, she was a person incapable of contracting marriage, being in fact the wife
                                already of a Spanish merchant who had discarded her for her dissoluteness. I may say by
                                way of explanation that at the time I met her she was posing as the maiden daughter of a
                                widow,  and seemed rather well placed
                                socially, though deeply in need of money. An accident threw her into my way, and both
                                she and the woman who professed to be her mother made the most of it. Their appeals to
                                my sympathies and to a certain sense of chivalry were too much for the not over strong
                                head of a young man foot loose in the world and possessed of ample fortune. I married
                                the young woman, as I supposed, only to learn very shortly into what a trap I had been
                                drawn, I found both women to be adventuresses of the worst possible kind. I learned also
                                of the fact that the woman was already a wife. Proof of these facts I will lay before
                                you in such shape as to satisfy you I am sure, and surely such facts should be
                                sufficient to acquit me of the charge brought against me. But these are not all. I will
                                show you further by indisputable official evidence, that the woman herself is dead.
                                Otherwise,void as our marriage was from the beginning,I should not now be a suitor for
                                the hand of a woman whom I esteem as I do your daughter."
                        
                    
                    Then followed a mass of legal documents written in Spanish, and attested by many
                        Spanish notarial seals. They told in effect the story that Barnegal had promised to establish,
                        and they added to it the bit of information that the woman in the case was very certainly dead,
                        for the reason that she had been garotted for crime under the decree of a court.
                    Added to these were some letters from Emile Garnier, warm, enthusiastic, loyal
                        letters addressed to the young man whom he had permitted scandal to wrong in his mind, and there
                             was one little letter, written under permission
                        evidently, and guarded in its phrases, as a French maiden's letters to her affianced
                        husband must always be, signed in the little feminine hand with which Charles had become
                        familiar as the handwriting of his mother many, many years before.
                    Rising from the perusal of these documents, the young man paced the floor until he
                        came in front of the portrait of his late uncle. It had been painted before dissipation and evil
                        tempers had wrought their full havoc upon the visage depicted in it, but the likeness was strong
                        yet, and the picture seemed to stare at him there in the midnight with sinister eyes.
                    "What a devil you were!" the youth exclaimed, as he looked back
                        into the eyes that seemed to menace him from the canvas. "What a traitor you were! What
                        an inconceivable liar and slanderer you were!"
                    Midnight as it was, and weary as the young man ought to have been, but was not, he
                        hastily rapped upon the table, and the serving man, who had been asleep in the corridor, as
                        hastily responded.
                    "Have my horse saddled and brought to the door immediately," was
                        his command.
                    
                    Fifteen minutes later young Barnegal was pushing his horse at an almost cruel pace on
                        the way to Alton House.
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    THE END of a COMPLEXITY
                    YOUNG BARNEGAL arrived at Alton House just as Jacqueline and her guests, the
                        Vargaves, were sitting down to breakfast in the negro cabin which had served as their
                        dining-room since the burning of the mansion. He had ridden so hard and so recklessly of mud,
                        that his clothing was even more dishevelled than it had been at the end of the long march of
                        rescue. His face was haggard with excitement and loss of sleep, and the first impression his
                        appearance produced upon Jacqueline was one of alarm.
                    "Something has happened," she said to him"something
                        terrible. Tell me, Charlie, tell quickly what it is."
                    "Yes, dear, something has happened," he replied, "but not
                        something terriblesomething glad, and glorious and good instead."
                    Then he hastily told her the substance of what he had discovered, and the character
                        of  the revelation made to him by the bundle of
                        papers. His first impulse was to ask an audience at once of Colonel Alton, whose sufferings did
                        not permit him to join the family at table, but for the first time in her life Jacqueline
                        fainted. The courage that had carried her through trials which few women or few men either could
                        have borne so well, gave way in the presence of the great good news.
                    When she was sufficiently recovered to be left in the care of Mrs. Vargave and Helen,
                        young Barnegal reflected that the mission on which he was about to go to Colonel Alton was one
                        closely touching Jacqueline. "And for such a mission," he said, "a
                        man should be at his most presentable best.
                    Laughingly he said to Jacqueline, who was now under self-control, "Impatient
                        as I am, I should wait to dress myself in silk attire for such a purpose, if I had any silk
                        attire lying about anywhere. As it is, I can only submit myself to the hands and brushes of one
                        of your servants, and let him make me as presentable as may be under the
                        circumstances."
                    A servant was summoned; the young man's clothes were brushed; his riding
                        boots were cleaned of the soil. After that, the youth secured razors and proceeded to shave
                        himself,  and put his hair in order. In the meantime,
                        he had so far recovered his self-possession, that he felt equal to the task of
                        "behaving like a grown man and a soldier," as he put it, during his interview
                        with the old gentleman.
                    Going to him at last upon his invitation, Barnegal drew the papers from the pocket
                        into which he had thrust them in a degree of disorder which would have distressed the old
                        solicitor deeply. He laid them upon the table in front of the older gentleman.
                    "Colonel Alton," he said, "I lay before you complete,
                        official, documentary proof of the honor of my father and mother."
                    Then he hastily recounted the nature and substance of the documents and added:
                    "I come to you now a man as well born as yourselfone entitled to ask any man
                        in all this land for the hand of his daughter. I come to you too as the head of my own house,
                        for since the death of the man who so malignantly schemed against my father first, and, for
                        revenge, against his memory and my mother's afterward, I have not a relative to
                        represent the Barnegal name. If I were an Irishman, I should be entitled to call myself
                        'The Barnegal.'"
                    The old gentleman, with great difficulty and  greater dignity, rose to his feet and grasped the younger man's
                        hand. A few broken words of affection were all that he could utter. Unable to go on he closed
                        the interview saying:
                    "Go now, my boy, and go with my blessing. Tell Jacqueline all that has
                        happened. When you have done that," he added, recovering himself, "I have a
                        mission for you."
                    The young man asked eagerly what it was, as eagerly promising to fulfill it on the
                        instant.
                    "No," said the elder, "not until you have seen Jacqueline
                        and told her all. Here, take these documents with you. I will keep this schedule. It is quite
                        all that I require. It is due to Jacqueline that, after yourself, she should be the first to
                        read those papers. Take them to her, and you and she read them together. After that, go and find
                        my son. Bid him, if it he possible, come to me. If his duties forbid that now, say to him for me
                        that the last obstacle which stood in the way of his love and the ordering of his life as he had
                        planned it, is gone. You perhaps have not realized it, Charles, but your uncle's
                        deathof which Roger is not yet informedremoves a danger that hung over Helen's head
                        until now. Say to Roger that I am ready now, whenever he wishes, to go to  Mrs. Vargave with the request he once asked me to prefer to that
                        lady."
                    Barnegal went to Jacqueline, as he had been bidden, and told her all. Together they
                        read all the papers, line by line. When they had done, Jack, always mindful of others, said:
                    "You must go now, Charles, on the mission my father gave you. You must find
                        Roger and hasten his hour of rejoicing."
                    Singularly enough, the reading of those old, time yellowed documents by Barnegal and
                        his sweetheart, had consumed the greater part of the day, though it had taken Barnegal by
                        himself only an hour or two, during the preceding night, to go carefully through every one of
                        them.
                    Barnegal had slept no wink now for thirty-six hours, but no desire for sleep troubled
                        him. He was young, strong and a seasoned nightrider; but better still he was under the
                        irresistible stimulus of a great joy. So without a thought of weariness he swung himself upon a
                        fresh horse, furnished by little Jack especially for this gladsome occasion, and set off at
                        almost breakneck speed to follow and find Roger.
                    The task of finding that young cavalier was not a difficult one, though he was more
                        than twenty miles away. For, maddened by the 
                        dastardly assault upon Alton House and by the destruction wrought there, Captain Alton was
                        making his presence terribly manifest, wherever he went, and he went everywhere where a tory was
                        likely to be found.
                    When told of the good news, he placed Barnegal in command of his force, which was now
                        rapidly increasing in strength, and himself hastened home.
                    "I will join you again to-morrow or the next day at latest, Charlie.
                        Meantime continue the work with all possible vigor. You understand what it is. We must clear
                        this whole region of tories and make a final end of their pestilent activity. Good-by!
                        I'll be with you to-morrow or next day! "
                
                
                
                    XXXV
                    IN which MARLBOROUGH attains MILITARY COMMAND
                    THE task that Roger Alton had set himself was one requiring time and ceaseless
                        activity. Now that Tiger Bill was dead the tories in that region were discouraged by the loss of
                        his financial support and the stronger support of his matchless malignity, but they had gained,
                        on the other hand, the courage of rats in a corner. Every man of them was now known in his true
                        character. Every man of them expected that the success of the patriots would mean more or less
                        of outlawry for himself and his family, and so they were impelled by fear of consequenceswhich
                        might come by means of a rope dangling from a tree-to fight desperately.
                    It was a fierce and bloody struggle, therefore, that Captain Alton's band
                        had to wage, but little by little they achieved success. They broke up one tory band after
                        another, and as they now manifested a determined purpose not  to be content with the dissolution of the organized bands, but to drive every
                        individual tory utterly out of that part of the state, their foes steadily decreased in numbers.
                        Some of them fled to the protection of the British at Charles Town or Savannah. The bolder ones
                        among them made their way to the scene of regular military operations in the northwestern part
                        of the state and in North Carolina, where they enlisted regularly in the British militia
                        regiments which Cornwallis had organized as an auxiliary army.
                    The spring of 1781 was well advanced by the time that Roger Alton and young Barnegal
                        began to recognize their work in the lower country as practically accomplished, and by that time
                        a new dawn seemed at hand for South Carolina. The partisans under Marion and Sumter, and, in
                        smaller bands like that which Roger Alton had used so effectively, had completely baffled the
                        expectations of the British. They had maintained an irregular but very fierce and effective
                        warfare, after all possibility of war seemed to the British tacticians to be past. They had made
                        it harder to hold South Carolina than it had been to overrun it. They had taught their foes new
                        and undreamed-of lessons in the art of war. They had saved  South Carolina, and the time had now come to reap the harvest they had sown.
                    General Nathaniel Greene had all this time been conducting a campaign against
                        Cornwallis, almost matchless in history, in the brilliancy of its strategy and the tireless
                        courage and endurance with which it had been carried out by a half-starved, ill-armed army of
                        undisciplined patriots.
                    With an inferior force, this great general, chosen by Washington himself for the
                        tremendous task, had fought and man$oEuvred Cornwallis out of South Carolina, across North
                        Carolina and into Virginia, where Washington and LaFayette a few months later made him bite the
                        dust in humiliating surrender; and when Greene saw him well on his way to his doom, he himself
                        ceased pursuit and turning about, re-entered South Carolina to try conclusions with the British
                        forces there.
                    The story of his reconquest of the state reads like romance in the pages of history.
                        This is not the place in which to recount it even in outline.
                    It was to aid in this splendid campaign that a messenger from Governor Rutledge now
                        summoned Roger Alton and his hand to the upper part of the state. Before leaving, Roger placed
                             Marlborough in charge of the immediate defence
                        of the Alton House plantations. There was not much danger of tory activity in that quarter now,
                        but there was still enough to suggest precaution. Roger therefore instructed his faithful
                        serving man, who had by this time shown himself to be also a brave and capable soldier, to
                        organize and arm all the able bodied negroes on the estate as a home guard, and explained to him
                        that even without a white officer in command, such a force would be fully authorized in law as
                        well as in morals, to do soldierly work in the way of home defence. His last charge to
                        Marlborough was this:
                    "I am leaving all that I hold dear on earth in your care, Marlborough. I
                        expect you to keep them in safety."
                    "If you don't find 'em safe when you come back,
                        Mas' Roger. yon won't find any but a dead Marlborough to blame for the
                        failure!"
                    With that the loyal black man held out his hand and Roger grasped it warmly, saying:
                    "I know that, Marlborough. I know your courage and your devotion. I trust
                        you as I would trust myself."
                
                
                
                    XXXVI
                    WHICH BRINGS the WAR and the STORY to an END
                    VERY naturally Roger wanted to make Helen his wife "before going away upon
                        this new and arduous campaign, as Barnegal had done with Jacqueline.
                    "I want to feel," Roger said, "that my highest purpose in
                        life is achieved, whatever may be my fate with regard to the rest. I want you to be my wife if
                        anything should happen to me. If you should be called upon to mourn me, I want you to have the
                        right to mourn me as a husband dead on the field of honor, and not as a lover merely, whom the
                        artificialities of our society would forbid you to mourn openly."
                    "What have we to do with artificialities, Roger?" asked the girl
                        with tear dimmed eyes. "As I told you long ago, I count myself, in nay very soul. your
                        wife, and should you fall as the hero falls, be sure I shall assert all my right as your wife to
                        mourn my hero husband. It is the other things that I do not wish to complicate  by the formalities of a marriage now-the property
                        things you know. Should any shilling's worth of your possessions come to me as your
                        widow, I should feel that the love I bear you had been paid for with a price, and I could not
                        endure that. No, no, Roger! Let us wait till independence is achieved for our country. Let us
                        wait till you have fulfilled the last obligation to that Liberty that was your mistress before
                        you thought of loving me."
                    Then, in that lighter vein which she was cultivating for the sake of sending her
                        lover forth to battle with only cheerful memories, she added:
                    "Besides you haven't yet fulfilled the condition I imposed upon you
                        when we first agreed, down there at Lonsdale, to call each other just 'Roger'
                        and 'Helen.' You remember, I told you yon were going into the army and would
                        come to be a 'major' or something else as dignified as that. You are only a
                        captain now. When you come back to me as a major I will marry you."
                    There was no use in arguing the matter, as Roger saw clearly, and as his company was
                        already assembled, for the march which was to begin within the hour, he had no further time for
                        parleying.
                    
                    But while he was making his fina dispositions Helen went on a little mission of her
                        own. From the storeroom she took an apronful of sugar lumps, and, without attracting
                        anybody's attention, fled with them to the stables. There she fed them one by one to
                        Bullet and Mad Bess, saying to them as she did so:
                    "Carry your master well. Bring him back to me in safety and I solemnly
                        promise to feed you all the sugar lumps that are good for you, every day as long as you
                        live."
                    And in the years that came afterwards she kept her promise. Mad Bess poor brute, was
                        k ed under her master in the operations near Ninety-six, and Bullet received a fearful bayonet
                        wound in the fierce, fighting at Eutaw Springs which in effect completed the redemption of South
                        Carolina and ended the war in that part of the Union. But with the high health that he had
                        enjoyed from his earliest colthood, he recovered, and it was upon his back that some months
                        later Lieutenant-Colonel Roger Altontwice promoted for gallantry-rode from recovered Charles
                        Town to Alton House to claim his wife, and to begin, with her aid and counsel, the joyous work
                        of reconstructing the historic mansion in all the glory of architectural adornment to which its
                        sturdy  walls invited its new masterfor Roger was its
                        master now, Col. Geoffrey Alton having passed away, full of years and of honors.
                    Day by day, Helen went every morning to Bullet's paddockfor she would not
                        have him confined to a stalland paid him his pension of sugar plums. And even when the coming of
                        a little Geoffrey Alton to be the future heir of Alton House, held her prisoner for a time, she
                        did not forget, but sent the daily dole by trusty hands, with loving messages which she firmly
                        believed the noble animal understood. Perhaps he did, for who shall set a limit to understanding
                        where love sends greetings?
                
            
        
    
