
     ----CITATION---- 
        Thompson, Maurice, 1844-1901. Rosalynde's Lovers: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2390
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                Rosalynde's Lovers
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                        Rosalyande Banderet flitted to and fro a bright and bissome
                            figure, sweetly suggestive of heliorope and vilet
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    Rosalynde's Lovers
                
                by
                    Maurice Thompson
                 With Drawings by G. Alden Peirson
                
                    Indianapolis:
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company Publishers
                
            
            
            
                
                    Copyright, 1901. J. B. Lippincott Compnay. Copyright, 1901.
                        The Bowen-Merrill Company.
                PRESS OF BRAUNWORTH & CO. BOOKBINDERS AND
                    PRINTERS BROOKLYN, N.Y.
            
            
            
            
                Illustrations
                
                    Rosayynde Bandcret flitted to and fro, a bright and lissome figure,
                        sweetly suggestive of heliotrope and violet 
                            Frontispiece
                            
                        
                    
                    Breyten saw a girl half kneeling upon the ground 10
                        
                    A large house attracted his attcutiona stately structure surrounded with
                        wide-armed forest trees 30
                        
                    Can I ever learn? Can I finally be an artist 40
                        
                    Breyten was not prepared for the apparition of Miss Banderet in the hall
                            50
                        
                    
                    The light shone upon the forlorn stairway loading to Rayle's
                        studio 140
                        
                    Through the bars of the iron gate shimmers the greenery of a garden 162
                        
                    "And now what?" said Anglie, gazing after her cousin 168
                        
                    "I am Angelie," she said, "and you are Mr.
                        Rayle and have made yourself ridiculous" 194
                        
                    "Now," he said, "we will give any intruder a
                        cold stare of repulse" 221
                        
                    "No," she said from somewhere deep in his arms 246
                        
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                Rosalynde's Lovers
                
                    Chapter One
                    Upon a broad highway, straight and smooth, between ample farms, where the
                        cheerful activities of spring sent forth a medley of noises very pleasant to
                        hear, a young man rode his bicycle with leisurely strokes. The small case of
                        alligator leather on the handle-bar looked a trifle worn, as if it had felt
                        hard usage, the rain, sun, and dust of a long journey. From New York City to
                        the mid-region of Indiana is not, indeed, a short wheel-spin; moreover, the
                        weather had been showery almost the whole of the way, making the roads  heavy. Now, however, a perfect morning late in
                        April was hanging a splendid sheen of beauty on sky and landscape.
                    Frederick Breyten, the rider, despite his many days of steady exercise,
                        looked fresh and cheerful. He was a man of greater weight than long-distance
                        traveling awheel usually attracts: yet his limbs showed boyish suppleness,
                        while his slightly curved back rippled with a fine play of muscles. Steering
                        with one hand, the other thrust into the pocket of his short coat, he gazed
                        right and left over the greening fields. There was a ruddy underglow in his
                        cheeks, his curly, short hair shot a glint of gold from under the rim of his
                        cap, and his face had a Norwegian suggestion in its fairness, strengthened
                        somewhat by a peculiar yet not uncomely forward thrust of his rather heavy
                        chin, which bore a rimpled yellow  beard, short,
                        fine, and not very thick, running thence up to his ears; and his mustaches
                        but half veiled his mouth.
                    He had come out of Indianapolis by the Hawford Road at sunrise; now the city
                        lay ten miles behind him. There was every temptation to fast riding.
                        Straight away, hard as packed gravel could make it, the road reached, white,
                        smooth, level, without dust, a glimmering, narrowing line to where it
                        pitched gently down from a slight, hazy ridge-top into a wooded valley. But
                        Breyten, albeit not averse now and again to a wild scorch, lagged while his
                        gray eyes fed upon what the landscape had to offer.
                    The morning passed. He looked at his watch; it was a quarter past one. The
                        air had a thrill of heat in it, a premature touch of summer. By the wayside,
                        on the slope of a grassy hill  near a noisy
                        little brook, a spring trickled forth with a chill suggestion in its crystal
                        current. Here he dismounted and ate his simple luncheon, drawn from a corner
                        of the alligator-skin case, where it had been closely associated with two or
                        three little dog-eared books. The meal ended, he stretched himself on the
                        blue-grass under a greening willow. Five minutes later he was sleeping, with
                        an arm curved above his head.
                    About five o'clock Breyten resumed his journey towards Hawford,
                        going briskly, with a blue violet between his lips. The air, drawing from
                        the southwest, had suddenly touched his face with a dampness meaning rain
                        not far off; and he saw a bluish-black cloud spreading upward under the
                        westering sun.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Two
                    April showers had so often sprinkled Breyten's back lately that the
                        prospect of another chill dash did not give him uneasiness, nor was there
                        anything especially threatening in the keen spears of flame shot down now
                        and again from the cloud with rattling thunder.
                    When the cloud, now tumbling along with a motion like the undertow of a
                        dangerous surf, had risen about half way to the zenith, Breyten saw a girl
                        on a bicycle whirl with a short swift curve out of a road tributary to his,
                        a hundred yards  ahead. She flew straight away
                        from him, a beaming embodiment of haste, something birdlike in her motions
                        and in the flashes of color from her clothes suggesting the wing-movements
                        of a frightened oriole.
                    Breyten involuntarily quickened his pace as she began to draw away from him.
                        He found that she was going, indeed, at a racing gait, and against a rising
                        wind, while her fluttering skirts, somehow showing her well-turned ankles
                        and little feet, gave forth a twinkle of yellow and brown. The cap she wore
                        had a black-and-orange feather-tuft lying flat at the left side with demure
                        effect; not that Breyten could make out just its form and color, but a sense
                        of these came along with the memory of how softly turned, and how like a
                        berry in its rich under-glow, her cheek had looked when she  rounded into the road. He smiled so much that
                        he let fall the blue violet from his lips.
                    Jerky whiffs of wind smote harder and faster in the rider's glowing
                        face; the girl's skirts flickered through puffs of road-dust, and
                        by some indirect ray of expression from that exquisitely poised form
                        slipping away before him, Breyten knew that the girl was frightened; he
                        could almost see her shrink when the thunder drummed on the hollow floor of
                        heaven.
                    He now bent low over his handle-bar, arching his back high, stretching forth
                        his Antinous neck, and driving the pedals so rapidly that the tires purred,
                        spinning the pebbles to right and left. At this moment the puffs all
                        combined into a headwind, a gale almost like a hurricane driving the level
                        stream of dust into Breyten's  eyes,
                        and then the front wheel hit a boulder as large as his head. It seemed to
                        him that he sailed a long way before he struck the ground; he had many
                        thoughts while spread out bat-like in the gloomy, raging air, and his flight
                        ended in a shock amid a great spangle of starry coruscations. His bicycle
                        climbed along his back to his shoulders, where it settled stiffly upon him,
                        as if conscious of having the right to caress him.
                    The surprise was about all there was in the mishap to disturb
                        Breyten's faun-like equanimity: but he groveled ludicrously in the
                        dust for awhile, uttering certain virile exclamations.
                    After ten minutes of toilsome headway Breyten found himself in a little
                        valley through which a stream, half brook, half river, ran crookedly, but in
                        a general direction at right angles with his road. A  wooden bridge spanned the water. Here he paused, breathing as
                        much dust as air. A roaring came out of the southwest, as if some great,
                        hoarse throat were gasping strenuously.
                    Breyten shrugged his shoulders; then, lifting his bicycle, he made a dash
                        down the stream's bank and went under the bridge, where he groped
                        around for the most eligible place in which he might shelter himself from
                        the shower of tree-boughs, falling noisily. It was almost pitch dark in the
                        hollow of the crib-work wooden abutment, a stuffy nook, just above the water
                        level, with great oaken sills half sunk in the mud, while overhead the floor
                        of the bridge served as roof.
                    Hastily disposing of his bicycle, Breyten felt with his hands for a spot to
                        sit upon. While he fumbled thus there came a blinding white flash down from
                        heaven  to earth with a crash, as if all things
                        had been ground instantly together into splinters.
                    "Oh-o-o!" wailed a tremulous, sweet voice; and at the same
                        time Breyten's hands clutched something soft and warm.
                        "Let go! Oh-o-o! Oh-o-o!" continued the voice.
                    By the fierce light, which seemed to linger with a wavering, filmy intensity,
                        like the sun itself. Breyten saw a girl, and recognized her as the one who
                        had fled before him. She was sitting, half kneeling, upon the ground, her
                        face like a saint's at prayer. Her bicycle lay beside her; so much
                        he saw in a twinkling, and the vision registered itself within him, a
                        luminous and fadeless picture.
                    He had withdrawn his hand from her soft shoulder; but when the darkness
                        followed the flash, doubly black by contrast, 
                        
                            
                                Breyten saw a girl half kneeling upon the ground
                            
                        
                         and he heard her wail piteously, he felt
                        around, trying to touch her again.
                    "Don't be frightened," he said very gently;
                        "it is safe here. And don't you be afraid of me.
                        I"
                    He was interrupted by another flash of indescribable splendor and a
                        detonation that made the ground oscillate. Something forced him to his
                        knees, but he sprang up instantly; for a moment he thought the bolt had hit
                        him on the head, while around him in a quivering clasp he felt the
                        girl's arms. It was a frantic embrace, made strenuous by terror.
                        Certain cries, quite unrestrained yet neither loud nor harsh, and altogether
                        feminine, told how poignant was the agony engendering them.
                    Breyten stood still, smiling in the dark, half conscious of a fear that even
                        his breathing might break the charm woven 
                        around him. A fine thrill sprang through his limbs and body from those
                        quivering arms. It was but a minutehow long and delicious!then she let go
                        and sprang away, rising lightly to her feet.
                    "II beg pardon!" she stammered, with the intonation of a
                        hermit thrush. "Forgive me.
                    Breyten laughed.
                    "What for?" he demanded. "You have done no crime
                        that I know of. You haven't picked my pocket."
                    Heavy silence ensued, so far as any sounds between them might be reckoned
                        against it, and, in fact, the wind was slacking, the thunder receding. Not a
                        drop of rain had fallen. Incredibly soon there was nothing in the heaven
                        overhead but trailing shreds of dark gray, the tatters of that cloud which
                        half an hour  before had looked so heavy and so
                        charged with danger.
                    By the sudden access of light Breyten saw the girl too plainly for the good
                        of his eyes; he was dazzled by the beam from her fresh and glowing
                        countenance.
                    "I was dreadfully frightened," she said; "I always
                        am when it lightens and thunders so. It is foolish, I know; but"
                    "It was enough to scare you," Breyten interrupted,
                        "or any person. It's all over now. It has blown around
                        north of here. Let me take your wheel up to the road for you."
                    "No, no, thank you; don't, please." But he seemed
                        not to hear her, and went forth carrying her bicycle up the steep bank to
                        the bridge-top, while she followed. It was done so easily and quickly that
                        the tall, comely girl scarcely understood  how
                        she had been mastered; but she struggled with her wits what time she was
                        mounting the slope.
                    "Now wait till I fetch my wheel," he said.
                    She clutched the handle-bar of her bicycle and suddenly looked up into his
                        face.
                    "Oh, if you pleasewon't you look for a little red note-book
                        down there? I must have left it on the ground where wewhere I"
                    "Yes, yes," said Breyten; "all right,
                        I'll find it."
                    With three or four bounds he descended and passed under the bridge. Something
                        like a fairy tune was humming in his ears; his eyes were so blurred with a
                        rosy vision that he stumbled over his faithful wheel. He looked about for
                        the little red book, until at last he found it,  and beside it a dainty handkerchief from which, when he picked it up, a
                        hint of heliotrope reached his nostrils.
                    Breyten reascended the bluff in such a state of inward transfigurement that
                        when he again stood on the bridge and looked around he felt as if just
                        coming out of a dream. Had he really seen a lovely young woman,
                        brown-haired, brown-eyed, berry-lipped? What had become of her? Up the road,
                        down the road he turned his dazed, inquiring eyes; but not even a
                        ribbon-flutter or the twinkle of a wheel broke the dancing play of sunlight
                        now slanting over from the rapidly clearing west.
                    He looked curiously at the red note-book and the white handkerchief, a smile
                        on his mouth somehow betraying his sense of having been outgeneraled. If a
                        stalwart man ever looked like an  abashed and
                        bewildered boy, it was he, standing there flushed to the ear-tips, stupidly
                        toying with what was left of the sweetest apparition that his eyes had ever
                        seen.
                    It was a month in his imagination, but only a minute or two in fact, that he
                        stood idle; then the impulse came to mount and pursue. She was going towards
                        Hawford when he first saw her; of course, she would be going in that
                        direction now.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Three
                    Breyten entered the town from the east in a broad, clean boulevard, not
                        pretentiously kept, but certainly attractive, on either side overlooked by
                        pleasant homes in the midst of trees, under which a blue-grass sward shone
                        intensely green. The way turned at a considerable angle to join a straight,
                        broad street of the town.
                    Quite unlike most little cities of the middle west, Hawford had an air of age
                        and permanence; not so much in the materials of the buildings, mostly
                        wooden, as in the general effect made by solid 
                        architecture and ample grounds shaded by ancient forest trees. Breyten saw
                        no great stir as of pressing traffic; people were going to and fro, but not
                        with anxiety or eagerness.
                    After inquiry he found his way to a pleasant little hotel in the thick of the
                        town, where his luggage was awaiting him, as well as a package of letters.
                        The first thing was a bath; his correspondents could hold their breath until
                        he got into comfortable clothes; for no particular interest attached to what
                        the mails brought him. No father, mother, brother, or sister came within his
                        memory, nor had he any familiar friends or nagging enemies who knew where he
                        was. The letters were from agents managing his estates in different cities.
                    What most occupied his mind, vaguely perhaps, but in its every nook, was the
                        girl  who had escaped so easily at the bridge.
                        She had fastened herself upon his imagination like a butterfly on a flower,
                        swinging across his inner vision, as if tossed by a fresh wind.
                    It would be safe to say that Breyten had been touched by more than one
                        girl's beauty before this. He was a Southerner, with all the warmth
                        of the cavaliers in his blood.
                    It was a part of his deepest nature to desire, as the Greek poets expressed
                        it, when loveliness came before him; but he had escaped sensuality by reason
                        of high health and a native honesty. As a roving student he had, as it were,
                        gone up and down in the world with a book in his hand and love in his heart.
                    While he was waiting for the dinner he had ordered, Breyten walked back and
                        forth in his room. A bay-window looked  into
                        the street in front, its open sash letting enter some clatter of vehicles
                        along with a pleasant country freshness. It was growing dark, yet against
                        the sky pinkish clouds were sliding, thin and wavering, like fading flames
                        pursuing the sun. The wind had gone into the southeast. Breyten took note of
                        these weather-signs, for to-morrow he meant to go out and find his girl. His
                        girl? Of course, his girl. It is the way that youth has of appropriating
                        maidenhood; what a young man discovers, is it not his? Yea, to keep forever
                        or to toss aside, according to his mind.
                    Later in the evening, while rummaging for something in the pockets of his
                        east-off bicycle coat, he found the book and handkerchief left in his
                        possession by the fair strategist at the bridge. It would have been good to
                        see him treat the bit  of hemstitched linen as
                        if its perfume were a charm, as if it were a white flower-petal from an
                        enchanted garden. He held it near his nostrils to sniff it delicately. Then
                        he opened the little red book.
                    You could have seen guilty conscience in his boyish expression of furtiveness
                        while he read her name on the first page,Rosalynde Banderetcertainly
                        musical, suggesting French ancestry. Vincennes was not far away, he
                        remembered; besides, she had a creole dash of tender duskiness in her eyes.
                        A warm glow pursued his blood around the circle of his veins at the thought
                        of her voice.
                    Breyten felt the temptation to read the entries in the book from page to
                        page; it was like seeing ripe berries in a cool place at high noon; they
                        assaulted a primitive appetite. But he could not trespass farther than to
                        catch up the name involuntarily,  Rosalynde
                        Banderet,deliciously sweet, as if stolen.
                    And that night he dreamed, awake and asleep, the preposterous dreams of youth
                        and poetry, with the book and handkerchief under his pillow.
                    He did not rise early, as was his habit, but slumbered until nine, waking
                        then to see a great patch of sunshine abetting the glare or stare of the
                        gorgeous carpet on the floor.
                    From beneath the pillow, after fumbling a moment, he drew his mementos of
                        yesterday, looking at one, then the other, with rather a sheepish gaze, the
                        smile on his mouth almost degenerating to a grin. Plainly he felt a trifle
                        ashamed of himself for some reason; but the feeling could not conquer his
                        delight when once more he saw the name. Rosalynde Banderet. And what could
                        he do but  kiss an autograph like that? If
                        idleness is the parent of vice, it is also the sire of many harmless virtues
                        begotten accidentally.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Four
                    As Breyten was on the point of mounting from the concrete curbing in front of
                        the hotel, he was accosted by a short but heavy-set young man, who had
                        followed him out from the office to say: "Pardon me, but that is a
                        remarkably attractive wheel of yours. Whose make is it?"
                    The voice had good-fellowship in its tone. Breyten felt, before he looked up,
                        that he should see a comely face; but he was not prepared for what met his
                        eyes. The man was handsome, that could not be questioned; yet the magnetism
                        of his  countenance, which was instantaneous,
                        really seemed not due to any happy arrangement of features. It was a ray
                        from within, out of the darkness, one might say, for his face was of a dusky
                        olive, while his eyes, hair, brows, and mustache were nut-brown, with a
                        dark-yellowish gloom hovering about them.
                    "Yes, it's a good wheel," said Breyten promptly.
                        "I had it made just to my liking. You see, it has the good points
                        of all the best makes. It is a concession in my behalf by several
                        patentees."
                    "You have come to enter the races at our spring meet, I
                        presume."
                    Breyten came near demanding the man's right to indulge so violent a
                        presumption. He had never heard of the Hawford spring meet, and certainly he
                        was not a racing man; but there was something in the face before him which
                             forbade rebuke with peremptory directness.
                        Besides, the man was lame, short of one leg by three inches, the lack filled
                        out with an enormous boot-sole of cork.
                    "No; I don't race," said Breyten;
                        "I'm only a tourist looking at the country."
                    Thus, by mere accidentor is there such a thing as accident?came. Alfred Rayle
                        into the ken of Frederick Breyten, and both men knew almost immediately that
                        the meeting meant something in the strange scheme of existence.
                    Breyten mounted and passed out of town, gradually increasing his speed as the
                        roadsides flaunted their rural verdure and the country freshness began to
                        stimulate him. Not once did it come into his mind that there might be
                        failure at the end of his ride; nor was he conscious before reaching the
                        bridge that he was doing a very foolish thing. There, however,  while the glow of expectation was highest, he
                        suddenly saw things change, as it were from poetry to prose. The whole
                        landscape took on a commonplace countenance. He dismounted on the spot where
                        he had last seen Rosalynde Banderet. Plucking at his mustache, he gazed
                        around with a decidedly stupid stare, not enthusiastic enough to smile at
                        his own folly or to recall himself from a state of indifference.
                    Of course the young lady was nowhere in sight; why should she be? Had Breyten
                        really expected her? After all, his coming back to the bridge meant nothing
                        more than poetical impulses have always meant.
                    After three minutes of blank, listless staring around, he pulled himself
                        together and laughed. He propped his bicycle against the rail of the bridge
                        and  went below, curious to see the spot upon
                        which Rosalynde Banderet had crouched. It was not a romantic place, rather
                        dirty, cobwebbed in the angles, ill-smelling. With his hands in his pockets
                        he surveyed the ground, until a dainty shoe-print caught his eye.
                    "Rosalynde Banderet," he thought aloud,
                        "I'll find you yet."
                    Then he laughed at himself and pedaled back into I law ford, disappointed in
                        an indefinite way, yet not defeated. He had plenty of time, and the little
                        town appeared attractive, viewed as a place in which to spend a month or
                        two; furthermore, had not the thought of studying the life, or rather
                        experiencing the life, of the middle west often interested him? You see he
                        was already framing a foundation for the excuse he needed.
                    Instead of returning directly to the  hotel,
                        Breyten made a swing round the residence part of Hawford, taking a leisurely
                        survey, not so much to observe as to think, and most of all to let his
                        imagination settle.
                    Breyten may have been in just the frame of spirit to be most favorably
                        impressed with what he saw; but any tourist would have been delighted with
                        the cleanness, freshness, and repose of the little city embowered in its
                        manifold greeneries and blown upon by the weather of a day supremely golden,
                        balmy, with bees in many a cherry tree, all white with flowers,a paradise of
                        robins in every close.
                    One broad street lying east and west, tree-fringed on either side, had been
                        chosen, as the houses showed, by some of Hawford's most substantial
                        citizens. It was, indeed, a double row of attractive  homes, which were set well back amid their trees, with
                        shrubbery clumps in profusion and broad white walks of concrete leading
                        straight from street-gate to stoop.
                    Near the end of the street Breyten found himself opposite a large house which
                        attracted his attention on account of its unlikeness to all the others. Not
                        exactly venerable in appearance, it looked older than it really was; a
                        stately structure, plain, weatherbeaten, solid, built of brick and painted
                        drab, it stood on a knoll thickly surrounded with wide-armed forest trees.
                    Just as he was passing the drab gate of the old place two persons, a man and
                        a girl, went up the walk towards the house. The man was lame and proceeded
                        slowly, leaning on a knotty cane, while his companion gently kept pace with
                        him. An absurdly unattractive little dog followed 
                        
                            
                                a large house attracted his attention a stately
                                    structure surrounded with wide-armed forest trees
                            
                        
                         at the girl's heels, bearing itself
                        as if conscious of a gazing world.
                    Breyten knew instantly that Rosalynde Banderet was once more under his eye.
                    He recognized the lame man as the one who spoke to him at the hotel, and
                        there was something in the movement and proportions of the poor
                        fellow's figure that suggested a satyr or some other
                        half-beautiful, half-monstrous plaything of nature. Nor could there be any
                        doubt, after a single glance, as to the influence Miss Banderet was, perhaps
                        unconsciously, exerting over him. He was looking at her as a child looks at
                        a star. Breyten knew this by the pose of his head and the slight drooping of
                        his body towards her. A stroke, subtly keen, fell upon Breyten's
                        breast at the same time, sending a pang through his hearta pang mixed of joy
                        and its opposite; for there  was a formless,
                        nebulous pathos in the scene.
                    He could not linger gazing, and the thought of making the book and
                        handker-chief an excuse for entering that quiet close did not come into his
                        mind; so he rode back to the hotel. After all, he had accomplished
                        something, more, indeed, than he had expected; but why this sorrowful faint
                        shadow, this obscure taint in the sunshine of his dream? A thrush in a
                        garden hedge sang of its love with just the same hint of indefinable
                        sadness.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Five
                    Rayle was attempting the impossible, trying to learn art without a teacher
                        and with no masterpieces from which to absorb a sense of technical
                        correctness. If he had genius, his work did not testify to it. Like the
                        penniless provincial the world over, his regard for wealth being a
                        distortion, he looked upon success as in some way connected with a happy
                        financial condition. If he had money, the rest would be easy. But he had no
                        money worth naming, six hundred dollars annually from property left in trust
                        for him by an  uncle being his only income save
                        the little he earned by coloring photographs and doing a portrait once in a
                        while.
                    He took Breyten to his studio in the upper story of a rickety building, part
                        of which was occupied by baled hay and other horse-feed. A livery stable was
                        next door, and across the street "Barney Hart's
                        Saloon" was squeezed hard between a bakery and a meat-shop.
                    Breyten followed Rayle up the stairway, which was outside of the building at
                        the edge of an alley, feeling in advance the pathos of what he was going to
                        see. His sense of humor, however, received a shock when he entered the room,
                        which smelt stuffy and looked grimy. There were two rough easels, a chair
                        and a bench, a three-legged stool, some pictures,nothing else. On one of the
                        easels a large canvas held a landscape in  oil,
                        stiffly drawn and crudely colored, hideously uninteresting, yet in a way
                        true to nature, not unlike a photograph daubed over with greens and browns
                        and blues. Breyten looked around, and a great laugh arose in him which he
                        had trouble to keep from roaring forth. Then involuntarily he turned short
                        and faced Rayle, who had stepped behind him as they entered.
                    For a minute there was an awkward silence, while Rayle's dark eyes
                        seemed to search Breyten's soul to its farthest limit, and while
                        Breyten made a great effort to keep an equilibrium of countenance.
                    At the point of greatest tension in the silence an enormous rat leaped out
                        from a dark corner of the room and scampered noisily across the floor to a
                        hole near another corner. That was the cue, Breyten  let go his hold upon all the laughter that had accumulated.
                        Rayle fairly recoiled before the explosion; but he caught himself, and
                        laughed rather perfunctorily in response. He gave Breyten the chair, and
                        took the stool for himself.
                    "II beg your pardon," he stammered, "for bringing
                        you here. I know it's not interesting to you."
                    "Why, yes," said Breyten briskly; "it is
                        interesting; I'm glad I came. It is a quiet, comfortable place. We
                        can have a chat. Forgive my laugh; the rat was so big and so
                        sudden."
                    Sitting upon the tripod, Rayle looked peculiarly crumpled and pathetic,
                        notwithstanding his fine head and well-set shoulders. He glanced uneasily at
                        his landscape, then asked Breyten if he took any interest in painting.
                    "Not much," was the answer. "I tried  it awhile, went to Paris to study, daubed some
                        canvas, and was a great failure. You see I'm not a genius, and one
                        must have the gift. Nature first, art next."
                    A flush mounted into Rayle's cheeks. "Yes, the natural gift
                        is the main thing, they say." He spoke as if under great restraint.
                        "It seems to me, however, that money plays the big part in the
                        game. How can genius find out what it has never seen or felt or
                        heard?"
                    "I don't know how, but it does," said Breyten.
                        "It needs no aid."
                    "Well, frankly, I don't believe a word of any such
                        stuff," said Rayle with energy. "Give me money, and
                        I'll do the rest."
                    "Oh, I don't know about the efficacy of money in the matter
                        of art." Breyten lightly remarked; "but we all need it,
                        doubtless, more than we are willing to 
                        acknowledge. I squandered some trying to do what you think of doing. If I
                        had that money back now I could use it to better purpose; but it's
                        gone, and I've nothing to show for it."
                    His words were meant to deceive, and they did to a degree; but Rayle knew
                        that Breyten was freer, happier, and richer than himself, and so what he
                        said did not bring comfort. Besides, his leg was paining him, and it was
                        torture, yet a torture that he eagerly sought, to look at Breyten's
                        genial face, where health, strength, and activity were combined in every ray
                        of expression.
                    "I had a selfish purpose in decoying you up here into this
                        hole," said Rayle after a few moments of silence, with a smile not
                        altogether dismal. "I want you to tell me if I have any real talent
                        forfor this business." He waved his hand  to signify that his remark comprehended what the room was
                        dedicated to. "Somehow I had made up my mind, before you spoke of
                        having studied art in Paris, that you knew more than I about it. Now I want
                        you to be frank with me."
                    Breyten was speechless. Indeed, what could he say?
                    "I'll tell you the whole thing." Rayle went on
                        when Breyten did not speak. "It's just this: I have a
                        small estate, held in trust for me, from which I get fifty dollars a month.
                        My lawyer has just discovered that I can sell the property, although it was
                        the donor's intention to prevent it. Now, if I have real talent I
                        want to know it, and I'll sell out and go away to study.
                        That's the long and short of the matter."
                    He fidgeted on the stool and a dark glow rose in his face. This way of
                        blushing  gave him a look of shyness not
                        particularly becoming, and made him appear less at ease than he really was.
                    Breyten looked at him steadily for a moment. "You are just as I was
                        when I got the painter's bee in my bonnet," he said, with
                        his pleasantest smile and in a voice meant to be very light and careless.
                        "It's like love; it has a way of humming until it
                        distracts a fellowthat bee." He was silent for a moment, then
                        added: "How long have you been at this? How long have you worked at
                        yourart?"
                    "It isn't art; you know it isn't, and you
                        needn't hesitate," said Rayle promptly and frankly enough.
                        "I know as well as you do that it's ridiculous; but I
                        wanted you to see it just as it is. If you should go to speaking favorably
                        of it I could not respect your taste; but can I ever learn? If I go to where
                        I can get the 
                        
                            
                                can I ever learn?Can I finally be an artist
                            
                        
                         best help, can I finally be an artist?
                        That's what I want to know."
                    There was absolute earnestness in his voice, and Breyten felt something manly
                        and courageous come along with his words.
                    "You don't see much here to back my aspirations, do you? I
                        didn't expect you would." Rayle laughed mechanically.
                    "You jump to a conclusion." Breyten replied quickly.
                        "I have not yet had time to examine or to think." While he
                        was speaking, his eyes fell upon Rayle's drawn leg and clumsy shoe,
                        and a thrill of pity shot through his breast. "But," he
                        added, "I should imagine that your work here would be in your way
                        when you"
                    "Yes," Rayle interrupted almost breathlessly. "I
                        should have to begin over again, I know that. But what do  you think of the outcome? Am I mistaken in
                        myself? Is there nothing in me?"
                    "Well, how do I know? I am no mind-reader." They both
                        laughed, Rayle rather doggedly. Breyten went on: "You might have
                        superb genius and I not see it at a glance. What do you honestly think of
                        yourself when you lie in bed pondering over this subject?"
                    "My self-trust never weakens for a moment, save when I read of those
                        men who have overcome poverty, disease, and every other possible hindrance
                        to genius. I doubt myself then; for somehow I can not break through
                        anything; I have none of the shiftiness of those fellows, and there has
                        never come to me one of those lifting waves of opportunity to hoist me into
                        the current of success."
                    "And if one should comeif a windfall of fortune should give you
                        ample  meansdo you feel sure that you would be
                        able to make the most of it?"
                    "I could at least settle the question and find out. I could measure
                        myself by a true standard, and I tell you that I believe in myself;
                        yet"and his voice faltered as he looked gloomily around the
                        room"you can see that I've no reason to."
                    Breyten rose as if to go; but he stood a moment looking into Rayle's
                        eyes and smiling. Then in a tone of present dismissal he said:
                    "We'll talk this subject over again when you have
                        discovered that my opinions aren't worth a straw. A vagabond
                        wheelman is not just the safest adviser in a serious matter. One thing,
                        however, I'll say emphatically. Don't sell your estate:
                        let the trustee continue to hold it. A six-hundred-dollar income is  better than no income. What I have is safely
                        invested, and I manage to make both ends meet without disturbing the
                        principal. It's the only safe way."
                    Rayle had risen from the stool and was fingering his knotty stick. He looked
                        up at Breyten, who towered above him, and said:
                    "You might as well be done with me at once. I shall be a great bore
                        as long as you are at the hotel. You see I'm desperately in earnest
                        and absolutely selfish. How long are you to remain in Hawford?"
                    Suddenly Breyten recollected something that had been obscurely worrying him
                        all the morning, and he answered Rayle's question with a mental
                        reference to it.
                    "That depends," he said: "my humor is uncertain.
                        And, by the way, I have a  pleasant yet
                        difficult little duty to perform before I go away from this happy little
                        town. Do you know a young lady by the name of Rosalynde Banderet?"
                    A change came into Rayle's dark face. It was as if a light had
                        flashed through it, with a tender illumination trailing behind it, like the
                        faint shimmering after a meteor in the dusky evening sky.
                    "Yes," he said, "I am acquainted with
                        her."
                    "Well, I have some things of hers that I am anxious to return to
                        her. Does she live in the large old house on Wabash Street?"
                    "What have you that belongs to her?" Rayle demanded. Then,
                        "I beg pardon," he added, "I have no right to
                        ask. Yes, she lives on Wabash Street."
                    The two young men looked straight into each other's eyes. Breyten
                        broke  away first; he did not like something in
                        Rayle's look. Not that it was disagreeable or threatening; what he
                        saw was beautiful. It was because it was beautiful that he did not like it.
                        He walked back to the hotel thinking in words to himself: "The poor
                        fellow loves her."
                
                
                
                    Chapter Six
                    Breyten all at once found himself timid, uneasy, foolishly hesitating in
                        front of the house on Wabash Street. That is, he was girl-shy, and actually
                        felt like running away.
                    He had dismounted from his bicycle in front of the gate, had even learned it
                        against the fence, and was gazing up the walk with an expression of
                        countenance not significant of any settled purpose. Indeed, he looked like a
                        big boy suddenly stricken with embarrassment. He stuffed his hands into the
                        pockets of his bicycling  coat; with one of
                        them he fumbled the little red book, while he thought of the handkerchief in
                        his cap, and stood by the gate as if half afraid to open it.
                    A distinct sense of relief caused his face to resume somewhat its accustomed
                        expression when he saw an elderly gentleman come round an angle of the house
                        and, cane in hand, approach him, stepping down the walk with the stiff,
                        jerky gait of rheumatism. He wore a black frock-coat, a silk hat, and
                        dark-gray trousers, all extremely neat, yet unmistakably far from new. The
                        dingy black neckerchief under his old-fashioned collar was three inches wide
                        and tied in a tight little knot. His ample, much-wrinkled, and brilliantly
                        polished shoes looked a trifle too heavy for his long, slender legs, which
                        were peculiarly sharp at the knees.
                    Breyten lifted his cap, and the old man  said:
                        "How do you do, sir?" very promptly and with pleasant
                        dignity, repeating, after a slight pause, "How do you do?"
                    Breyten opened the gate for him, and, stepping aside, held it so while he
                        passed out upon the sidewalk.
                    The old man turned a pair of keen steelgray eyes upon the young fellow, as if
                        to look him through, then, glancing at the bicycle against the fence, said:
                        "It bids fair to be a warm day," After which he stood,
                        evidently not quite sure of his memory, passing his left hand over his
                        forehead. He could not recollect Breyten, but took it for granted that he
                        was one of the young men about town who might some day vote for him and he
                        did not like to appear forgetful.
                    "You were going in. Was it to see me?" He smiled a fine
                        political smile.  "I will go back to
                        the house with you. Come."
                    "No," said Breyten. "I am going in to see Miss
                        Rosalynde"
                    "Ah," the old man interrupted with a wave of the hand,
                        "she'll be right glad to see you, Mr,"
                    "Breyten is my name."
                    "Mr. Breyten. Yes. You'll find her in, I think. Go in, Mr.
                        Breyten, go in," The genial stereotyped smile deepened on his face
                        as he bowed and passed on down the street.
                    Thereupon Breyten burned the bridge behind him. That is to say, he went in
                        and shut the gate, breathing freer. His heart fluttered blithely while he
                        strode towards the house, hearing the robins and catbirds singing in the
                        trees round about. Up the steepish walk under the intertwining branches a
                        queer little dog trotted 
                        
                            
                                Breyten was not prepared for the apparition of Miss
                                    Banderet in the hall
                            
                        
                         ahead of him. It had come out of a shrubbery
                        clump hard by. A blue ribbon around its neck was tied above in a bow with
                        short streamers.
                    Mounting six or seven steps to a broad stoop under a hanging balcony, Breyten
                        pounded vigorously, waking echoes within, at which the grotesque little dog,
                        now wriggling at his feet, barked as if life depended upon noise. And when a
                        little later the door was gently opened, in scampered the clever brute and
                        joyously leaped upon Miss Rosalynde Banderet's dainty morning gown.
                    Breyten was not prepared for the apparition of Miss Banderet in the hall, He
                        had expected that a servant would open the door. The dog, however,
                        neutralized surprise with his mad antics. He jumped as high as his young
                        mistress's waistband, and tried to seize certain fluffy  ornaments above it with his teeth. His paws
                        left dusty, tracks on the skirt. Mutual recognition flashed meantime between
                        the two young people. Breyten, stooping quickly, took hold of the
                        dog's nape and held it up bodily, whining and kicking for a moment,
                        then tossed it out upon the floor of the stoop and closed the door with a
                        brisk shove.
                    "Now then, good-morning, Miss Banderet," he said, turning
                        towards her in the twilight of the hall and bowing, cap in hand.
                    She looked straight past him. The little dog was scratching at the door and
                        querulously begging to be let in.
                    "You have hurt Bobby," she said; "he is crying.
                        Let me open the door."
                    Breyten pulled the great brass knob, and in popped the atrocious beast,
                        bouncing and frisking.
                    
                    "He' seems lively enough," remarked Breyten, just
                        as he tore a considerable rent in Miss Banderet's gown.
                        "Shall I fling him out again?"
                    "No," she said, rather pathetically regarding the damage.
                        Then she pounced upon Bobby and took him in her arms, where he delightedly
                        nestled, winking his wicked little eyes and protruding his tongue.
                    "I met a gentleman at the gate," he quickly said,
                        "your father, I suppose, and he told me to come in, that you were
                        here; so I thought I might step in and inquire if you lost anything of value
                        under the bridge the other day during the storm."
                    She looked up at him very demurely while he was fumbling in his cap for the
                        handkerchief, which, when he had disengaged it, he held towards her. The dog
                        snatched it, but she took it from him and 
                        quickly scrutinized it, then laughed.
                    "Thank you," she said; "but it was not worth the
                        trouble."
                    "Perhaps this is more valuable," and he produced the little
                        book, which Bobby promptly snapped at in vain. Breyten held it above his
                        reach.
                    "It is kind of you. The book is of account to me." She took
                        it almost eagerly. "I am glad to get it."
                    "Then why did you run away and leave it in my possession?"
                    "An explanation would not be interesting," she said, as if
                        to close the conversation. "You have been very kind." She
                        took a step away from him; he felt dismissed. He laid a hand upon the
                        doorknob and looked up at the stucco rosette on the ceiling, from which
                        depended a curious old chandelier, then again straight into her beautiful
                        eyes. There was in  his gaze a frank appeal for
                        more generous treatment, but she only looked down and patted
                        Bobby's villainous head with the little red book just recovered.
                    Another luminous thought flared across Breyten's mind. So he laughed
                        and said:
                    "This is the first time that I was ever in a house where they
                        didn't offer me a chair. Even when they put me in jail in Russia,
                        thinking me an assassin, they bade me be seated."
                    There was something irresistibly pleasing in his voice. His nature charged it
                        with unmistakable honesty.
                    Rosalynde Banderet's cheeks flushed as she looked up to meet his
                        smiling eyes. He was certainly the handsomest man she had ever seen, and
                        there could be no doubt about his gentility and his worthiness: such a man
                        could not be capable of abusing  confidence;
                        and besides, what possible harm could come of treating him kindly?
                    "Forgive me," she said, "I was very thoughtless.
                        I"
                    "You shall forgive me, rather," he hastened to break in
                        with, "and I will try to make amends for my foolish boldness. Of
                        course, I'm a stranger; I have no right to overstep a
                        stranger's limitations. I was staying here for a few days; I could
                        not go away without bringing the book and the handkerchief to you; but it
                        was impossible to come with letters of introduction or give a bond for my
                        good behavior. It's hard on a fellow to be a stranger among
                        strangers. I feel helpless.
                    His tone was light to a degree; but under it something like deep regret
                        welled up and thrilled Rosalynde strangely, making  her feel that in some way she was wronging him. She had never
                        been in the presence of a man who was so much a stranger in a wide sense of
                        the word. He impressed her as one who had come from a very far country where
                        men were greatly different from those of her acquaintance; but instead of
                        being romantic on that account, he seemed intensely real, concentratedly
                        modern, and unconventional. She was not thinking this; her mind lay confused
                        and fluttering, so to say, unable to analyze or understand its condition;
                        but the impression was clear enough afterwards, when Breyten had gone away.
                    "Ours has been a short and curious acquaintance," he said.
                        "I presume that it ends here, and I am sorry for it. Goodby, Miss
                        Banderet." He let go the knob, 
                        shifted his cap into his left hand, and held his right towards her.
                    Bobby obligingly took it between his acicular teeth with surprising deftness
                        and vigor. It was bleeding when Breyten snatched it away, his grimace
                        telling how hard it was not to wring Bobby's neck on the spot. Miss
                        Banderet apologized; she even flung the little dog down and made him hasten
                        about scampering out of the hall; then she offered to examine
                        Breyten's hurt, and finally bandaged the bleeding hand, which was
                        but scratched, with the handkerchief that he had returned to her. This
                        accomplished, there seemed to be nothing further to say or do, only Breyten
                        thought that they might make another attempt to say good-by.
                    When Breyten rode away from the gate  he saw
                        Rayle coming up the sidewalk towards the house. He was hobbling along
                        painfully, leaning on his knotty stick.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Seven
                    Rosalynde Banderet was the orphan of a soldier, who, wounded at Gettysburg,
                        had lingered a cripple for twenty years and died, leaving her, his only
                        child, motherless, to be cared for by her grandfather. General Lucian
                        Banderet, a distinguished politician. These particulars Breyten learned
                        without much exertion. It furthermore came to him that the General was
                        having some trouble about securing the nomination he desired. It seemed that
                        a younger man, reputed to be very rich, was becoming a dangerous antagonist.
                             The General's financial condition
                        forbidding what is called fighting fire with fire, his friends were feeling
                        that unless something better than mere oratory could be offered in his
                        behalf there might soon be a stampede in favor of the man with the money,
                        and the situation was the subject of hot street talk, which could not be
                        excluded from the smoking-room of the hotel.
                    Breyten opened his ears to all this and more. It interested him peculiarly on
                        account of Miss Banderet's indirect connection with it. He felt
                        that in some way he had a part to perform in the drama which seemed about to
                        open.
                    He sat in a corner of the little smoking-room, and, though not a smoker
                        himself, enjoyed seeing Rayle puff out the fragrance of a dark Havana that
                        he had given him, while three or four political workers  at a little distance were cautiously yet violently debating the
                        advisability of the party demanding General Banderet's withdrawal
                        from the race. The men were from Indianapolis, and had been sent to Haw ford
                        to inquire into the matter.
                    "Well, all I've got to say, I can say right now,"
                        blurted one of them. "A man who can't raise enough money
                        to make a decent campaign's got no business sticking up his head
                        for a nomination. There's too much at stake; we can't
                        afford any nonsense.
                    "But is it safe to nominate McCarthy?"
                    "He's a hustler and won't mind a little
                        expense."
                    "But his record in the labor troubles,every miner, every railroader,
                        every union man in the State has him spotted."
                    "Well, I had a long talk with McCarthy night before last, and he
                        says it's all  right. Besides, you
                        know devilish well that a little decent work will fetch the labor element
                        all straight as a string for any man that we nominate. Of course, General
                        Banderet is the very man we want, personally; but he's in no
                        financial shape. Why, there's a mortgage on everything
                        he's got; even the house he lives in's got six thousand on
                        it."
                    "Got no friends back of him?"
                    "Oh, he thinks he will have, he says; but when I pinned him down he
                        couldn't mention any names worth ten thousand in bank."
                    "All the old soldiers are behind the General; he can get them every
                        one, Democrat and Republican. If we pull him off they'll all be
                        mad, and the devil'll be to pay."
                    "Well, then, we'll have to spring a dark horse; for
                        there's no use talking, we've  got to have money. We can't turn a wheel without it."
                    These scraps of the mumbled yet earnest conversation, hotly spiced with
                        profanity and slang, drifted brokenly into Breyten's ears. It
                        seemed that Rayle, too, heard some of it; for he presently leaned forward
                        and said, speaking low:
                    "As I said to you in my studio, it requires money to do anything.
                        Mr. Breyten, no matter what. Did you hear what those men were saying about
                        the convention? They're wire-workers in State politics; they are
                        here bullying General Banderet."
                    "A disreputable looking lot," said Breyten;
                        "political blackmailers, I should say, scoundrels."
                    His voice was not guarded, and one of the men swung himself round in his
                        chair and gave him a keen look, but said not a 
                        word. A moment later they all left the room. Breyten never saw them again;
                        but their talk had revealed an interesting fact to him, and he plied Rayle
                        with questions indirectly pertinent to the main issuethe condition of
                        General Lucien Banderet's finances.
                    "The old gentleman is, in fact, desperately involved," said
                        Rayle. "I happen to know the particulars; but he is very popular
                        and will be hard to beat before the people, if he can secure the nomination.
                        There lies all the trouble. The practical politicians want some man
                        nominated who will spend money like water. Of course, if the old General is
                        nominated they will all support him, money or no money. What he needs is
                        five or ten thousand dollars to take him through the convention, and it
                        looks as if he will not be able to raise that amount or any other."
                    
                    "I see," said Breyten. "It is very interesting to
                        me. I have never had anything to do with politicswas never before so close
                        to actual political trickery. I feel the novelty; I have had a fine smack of
                        corruption."
                    Rayle laughed, not very jocundly, and tried to be light of manner, saying:
                        "Don't be polluted by what you accidentally touch; I have
                        kept pretty well out of politics myself." He paused a moment, and
                        then added, seriously: "But it would be my greatest delight to help
                        General Banderet were I able. I would sacrifice a great deal. He is a noble,
                        a grand old man, superbly endowed and absolutely honest."
                    "But, if he is honest, how can he use money in politics?"
                        Breyten demanded with unhesitating bluntness.
                    "He couldn't and wouldn't use it
                        corruptingly,"  said Rayle;
                        "he's above it, and besides, there's no need.
                        What he wants is money to rent half of the best hotel in Indianapolis for a
                        week, and to bear his expenses through the convention: wine and cigars for
                        his friends, a brass band, and a hundred or so clackers. You see a great
                        deal depends upon show and noise. The General understands the business, if
                        he but had capital. He has never been beaten; but this time it looks as
                        though he might go under. His enemies have set his creditors to nagging him
                        just at the right time to injure him most."
                    "And does it worry him?" Breyten inquired, albeit his
                        thoughts were not with the question; he was recollecting how General
                        Banderet looked when he met him at the gate, and how the little dog behaved,
                        and how Miss Banderet's eyes looked.
                    
                    "Of course it worries him," said Rayle, "but he
                        doesn't show it. He's got no end of nerve. He will fight
                        to the last."
                    "I suppose that defeat in the convention, then, will precipitate
                        financial ruin."
                    "Yes."
                    "But would election help the matter in the long run? Would that
                        probably save him?"
                    "Certainly. It would give him credit, and, if necessary, aid. If he
                        carried the party through, it could afford to be liberal."
                    Breyten was silent for a while. Presently, in a casual tone, he inquired:
                    "Has the General any familyany one dependent upon him for
                        support?"
                    "His granddaughter."
                    "Miss Rosalynde?"
                    "Yes."
                    A steady, hard, searching look passed  between
                        the two young men. It was as if by a single thrust of the eyes they meant to
                        pierce each other through and be done. After a moment Breyten said:
                        "It's pathetic; it's a shame."
                    He did not hear his own words. He was not present; he was under the bridge on
                        the Haw ford Road, with the lightning ablaze all around, and Rosalynde
                        Banderet clasping him tremblingly.
                    Rayle arose with difficulty, slowly straightening his lame leg, as far as
                        that was possible, and handling his knotty stick. His cigar had gone out,
                        half burnt; the stump was tightly pinched between his teeth. From head to
                        foot he looked hopeless. Breyten felt a strange thrill of sympathy creep
                        over him, and at the same time something that was very like hatred blended
                        with the feeling when the almost  startling,
                        manly beauty of Rayle's face flashed upon him with a new light.
                    They parted for the night without further discussion of the subject in which
                        they had been so easily and so disturbingly entangled together. Breyten went
                        to his room with a dim sense of being on the brink of some new and
                        questionable experience, in which, as in a bewildered mist, he should have
                        to feel his way blindly. He did not realize, however, as one coolly reading
                        about it must, the almost absurd attitude he was assuming towards Miss
                        Banderet.
                    Before Breyten went to sleep he brooded over General Banderet's
                        condition, over Rayle's fascinating face and distorted legall in
                        connection with a vision of Rosalynde. And his night-cap resolution was that
                        he would quietly  wheel away from Haw ford on
                        the morrow's morning.
                    Was this resolution taken because he had fallen in love with Miss Banderet?
                        No, he knew himself well enough to anticipate what he might do were he to
                        stay and play with fire; and why should not his good sense prevail and draw
                        him forever away from this possibility of entanglement?
                
                
                
                    Chapter Eight
                    Freedom to do just as he wished doubtless operated against Breyten when
                        morning came, and he faced his resolve of the night before. He was up early,
                        feeling the intoxication of pure delight in life. From his wide open windows
                        he saw that Hawford was responding through all its groves and gardens to an
                        access of golden weather.
                    Suddenly he recollected that he had determined upon wheeling away from
                        Hawford, that he ought to be packing his bags and giving orders about how
                        and where  they were to be sent to intercept
                        him. He grinned indulgently at himself, as it were, feeling that there was
                        about as much likelihood of an earthquake before breakfast as that he should
                        depart without again seeing Miss Rosalynde Banderet.
                    Somehow things did not seem as serious as they had when he went to bed. He
                        felt no limitations, no restrictions. If a young woman charmed a young man,
                        by what law was the latter bound to flee like a felon?
                    He had just come from bath, glowing throughout his supple frame. He rang and
                        ordered a simple breakfast brought to his room, ate heartily, sipped his
                        coffee in a reverie as brown as the liquid itself, and then wrote two or
                        three letters, one of which comes within the limits of this history. It was
                        to his confidential  agent and attorney in New
                        York. Part of it ran thus:
                    "You will please send at once fifteen thousand dollars
                            to the First National Bank of Hawford. Indiana, to be placed to the
                            credit of General Lucien Banderet. Do this in such a way that said
                            Banderet can never find out whence the money came. I am particular on
                            this point. . . . . I also desire you to send to the same bank, with the
                            same secrecy, five thousand dollars to be credited to Alfred Rayle. You
                            will write a letter to each of the above-named persons, informing him
                            curtly of the fact that a friend who wishes to be unknown has sent the
                            money. To General Lucien Banderet you will say further that a part of
                            the money is to pay the mortgage on his home in Hawford, the rest is to
                            defray the expenses of his campaign for the office of governor. To
                            Alfred  Rayle say that he is to use the
                            amount sent him in pursuing art-study in Paris. Be careful that nothing
                            in your letter (which is to bear no signature) can possibly suggest a
                            clue to the donor. I trust you to attend to this promptly and
                        cleverly."
                    Breyten smiled a self-approving smile and stroked his mustache when this
                        letter had been sealed and addressed; his face showed that he felt the
                        stimulation following a disinterested act of kindness.
                    And now for a ten-mile morning spin; he must work off his excess of animal
                        energy, and at the same time have the wide country's ample room in
                        which to waste his accumulation of pleasant, nay joyous, fancies.
                    A young man with an annual net income of two hundred thousand dollars is to
                        be congratulated when he finds five  thousand a
                        year an ample allowance for all his wants. To some men the surplus one
                        hundred and ninety-five thousand would be a most exhilarating matter of
                        contemplation, especially when the capital affording it was mostly in
                        desirable business buildings and government bonds, giving the least possible
                        trouble to their owner. But Breyten had no feeling one way or another about
                        his continually increasing wealth; it was a part of him, so that, when he
                        used it, the act was, like breathing or eating or, perhaps, yawning, a mere
                        response to some actual or fancied need. Economy could not come up for
                        consideration in his mind; there was no room in his nature for its laws to
                        operate, since neither prodigality nor avarice was known to him: he frankly
                        spent what he was moved to spend, a very safe rule in his case, owing to his
                             perfectly simple habits. What he had just
                        done, however, lay outside the periphery of his ordinary field of action,
                        and the sense of having swung distinctly beyond this limit stirred in him
                        what time he wheeled westward out of town along a shining white road.
                    A sudden impulse to scorch for a mile or two sent him off at a reckless gait,
                        dusting the air behind him, grinding the surface-pebbles under the growling
                        tires. He sped like a shot, ricochetting rapidly yet almost imperceptibly
                        along the roadway to some distant and invisible target.
                    And Breyten was a missile speeding straight to a target. It was fate. His
                        immense energy was driving him faster and faster, and unerringly. He forgot
                        that he was in a public highway where other people, every person, indeed, in
                        the whole world, had as much right to move as he;  forgot that it was unlawful to go tearing madly in the path of
                        the people's pleasure and traffic; forgot, in short, where he was,
                        what he was, and what way he was flying, until presently he hit the target.
                        It was at a turn of the road.
                    Breyten was going head down, seeing the roadway not farther than twenty feet
                        before him, the intoxication of rapid motion adding to his strenuous
                        expenditure of force. His short, curly hair fluttered and gleamed as the air
                        caught it; the muscles on the back of his neck were taut, standing forth,
                        smooth and large, while the motion of his limbs gave to his body a slight
                        rhythmical sway from side to side. It was at last a speed dangerous to the
                        bicycle's machinery; for the man's weight, at such speed,
                        made the impact of tire upon pebble or insignificant bump in the road a
                        stroke of almost incalculable  power. But in
                        the glow of excitement, feeling the scorcher's delicious madness
                        bubbling in his blood, Breyten thought of nothing, save yet a little
                        increment of speed, until at the turn of the roadcrash!
                    Now, just before the catastrophe, there was a flash of yellow and brown. It
                        was as if an oriole had come darting down the road to meet him, and Breyten
                        knew in that twinkle of tragic time just what it was.
                    They rushed togetherand the end of it was a realistic accident at which the
                        community was called upon to grimace and shudder. The man and the maid were
                        found lying insensible side by side in the road amid the tangled shreds of
                        their bicycles. Breyten had a double fracture of the right leg and a
                        concussion which at first bade fair to kill him without a return  to consciousness. Miss Rosalynde Banderet had
                        no bones broken, yet she was, the doctors feared, more dangerously hurt than
                        Breyten: possibly there was a spinal lesion.
                    It was a nine-day subject of conversation in Hawford, a bit of choice news
                        for the daily papers, and then General Banderet's household was
                        left with the main burden to bear; for in the excitement and confusion
                        following the terrible affair Breyten had been taken along with Miss
                        Banderet to the General's home, and there the doctors said he would
                        have to stay, or die in course of removal. Of course, he stayed, and for a
                        long time. As usual, however, the doctors were wrong in their first hasty
                        conclusion, especially as to Miss Banderet's injuries. Barring a
                        great shock and some painful contusions, neither dangerous nor disfiguring,
                        she escaped  Whole. and was out of bed within a
                        week. The missile was hurt far worse the the target. Breyten lay for two
                        months, his heart-beats mere pendulumstrokes counting the uncertainties of
                        his fluttering, faltering life. The efficient surgeon attending him
                        exhausted his science and art, made the fight for him with consummate
                        watchfulness and patience, and, aided by Breyten's perfect physical
                        soundness and vigor, at last gained the vietory.
                    Rayle was tireless in his solicitude for Breyten's comfort. Somehow
                        he felt irresistibly drawn to the handsome young giant, and spent the
                        greater part of his waking hours contributing in one way or another to aid
                        the Banderet household in its unflagging care of his wounds.
                    General Banderet a after Rosalynde's prompt recovery, brightened up
                        and cast  from his mind a secret grudge that he
                        had been holding against Breyten for his recklessness and its consequence.
                        The old man was naturally generous to a fault; he liked nothing better than
                        doing a liberal act; and now that his granddaughter, the core of his heart,
                        was out of danger, he turned all his impulsive sympathy upon the unconscious
                        and pathetically emaciated voting stranger who lay so still, so pale, with
                        his massive frame slowly collapsing day by day.
                    Meantime the remittances arrived from the unknown donor, fifteen thousand to
                        the General, five thousand to Alfred Rayle, The notification from the First
                        National Bank of Hawford was the first hint to the lucky men of their
                        strange stroke of fortune; but neither knew the other's surprising
                        secret. General Bandcret could not credit his vision when he  opened the note, so he bustled off to the bank
                        in an ill-suppressed mood of mind bordering on utter demoralization, but he
                        managed to appear reasonably indifferent, as if the whole affair were a
                        matter of course. There was no explanation forthcoming, and he demanded
                        none. The credit was duly entered in the little yellow bank-book that he
                        always carried in the inside pocket of his long frock-coat; then he cracked
                        some political jokes with the cashier, who was of the other party, and went
                        out laughing.
                    As for Rayle, his surprise came like a blow, leaving him numb and dazed. He
                        could not think nor feel on the subject. For a whole day he carried the
                        bank's curt notification in his pocket and did nothing about it.
                        When he began to recover his reasoning powers, the first impression was that
                        some person had attempted a joke  upon him, and
                        he came near tearing up the note; but after sleeping a night over it he was
                        impatient for the bank to open in the morning so that he could test the
                        matter. What if it were true!
                    "You're in luck," said the cashier pleasantly.
                        "Wish somebody'd do something like it for me,"
                    "Whowho was it?" Rayle demanded. his voice almost betraying
                        his deep inner excitement.
                    "You know as much about it as we do," said the cashier
                        rather indifferently. "It's from New York, and no name
                        given." He smiled perfunctorily and turned to another customer.
                    On his way back to his room Rayle dropped in at the post-office, where he was
                        handed the anonymous letter from Breyten's attorney in New York,
                        This added heavily to the weight of mystery. General  Banderet fared the same, but fancied that his windfall came
                        from a political source; he even suspected a very rich friend of his in New
                        York. But Rayle had no clue. To him the whole thing was like a golden dream,
                        out of which he half expected to be startled at the next moment by some
                        realistic sound or touch.
                    A day or two passed before he could break his secret to Rosalynde, whose
                        rapid convalescence was already advanced to the stage of sitting, airily
                        robed, on a window-seat in the library, and looking out under the trees at
                        the robins hopping gingerly in the short grass.
                    Miss Banderet's prompt acceptance of her lover's good luck
                        as quite a reality, to be made the most of without delay, greatly encouraged
                        Rayle, lifted him out of the fog, so to speak, and sent him in the way of
                        clearly viewing the situation.
                    
                    They talked it all over and over, as lovers are wont to talk over every new
                        turn in their prospect, and settled and unsettled the plan of action as
                        often as they talked, until it was finally determined that Rayle must at
                        once set out for Paris and rush his studies with all his might, cram two or
                        three years into one, seize upon the rich core of art and tear it out for
                        his own separate use and benefit, then come back ready for work that should
                        amaze the world. It looked so possible, so probable, so certain, so easy to
                        their simple provincial vision, which could not distinguish the humor and
                        the pathos of the picture nor the stiff seriousness lurking in its every
                        line. However, Rayle has his money, he has kissed Rosalynde, and with a high
                        heart is off for Paris.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Nine
                    At the time of Alfred Rayle's deparlure for Paris, Breylen was lying
                        helpless in bed, scarcely conscious, with his leg in a plaster cast. The
                        doctors, however, had decided that he would get well, provided no unexpected
                        trouble should set in; for already the man's amazing strength and
                        vitality were doing wonders, and the wounds showed unmistakable signs of
                        betterment from day to day. The most difficult and dangerous part of the
                        surgeon's task was managing the injury at the back  of Breyten's head, the cause of his
                        semicomatose condition.
                    In June Breyten began to bring himself together, slowly comprehending his
                        condition, taking cognizance of his surroundings detail by detail, what time
                        a phlegmatic male nurse shuffled noiselessly in and out of his large, airy
                        room, He was Consolingly aware, as by an indirect beam of consciousness,
                        that he had been having glimpses of Rosalynde Banderet flitting to and fro
                        somewhere within the field of vision, a bright and lissome figure gently
                        rustling, sweetly suggestive of heliotrope and violet; and as he waxed
                        stronger, his mind clearing apace, there came upon him a great desire to
                        have her at his bedside to look at and talk to. Her voice was somewhere near
                        the foreground of his memory, as if it had just died on the air and were
                        still sweetly echoing within him.
                    
                    He knew that during his half-conscious state she had hovered near, and that
                        with the first dawn of his recovery she had slipped away. It was delicious
                        knowledge, just suited to his mood as he lay on his back contemplating the
                        stucco rosette in the middle of the ceiling. He heard the old clock on the
                        stair-landing pounding off the seconds, and with the tail of an eye saw the
                        flaccid red-haired nurse sitting by a window reading a book. There was a
                        vast comicality in the fellow's expression.
                    "Well, now, who upon earth are you?" Breyten demanded,
                        after studying the stolid face and stuffy figure for five minutes. His voice
                        was not as weak as one would have expected it to be, yet it lacked the
                        fulness and the resonant power it once had, "You are deaf and dumb,
                        eh?"  he added, when the nurse, taken
                        by surprise, failed to speak.
                    "Yes, sirum, no, sir. What'd you say, sir?"
                    Breyten tried to laugh, but his facial muscles acted stiffly and appeared to
                        draw his eyes deeper into his head. He was sadly emaciated.
                    "Sh-h, sir," continued the nurse, laying aside the book and
                        lifting a hand with deprecatory emphasis, "You're not to
                        talk now; `taint good for ye."
                    Breyten reflected a moment in some confusion; then
                    "You put on airs. Whien were you elected governor of me?"
                        he half-humor-onsly, half-petulantly inquired "Hand me something to
                        throw at your head."
                    Just then the surgeon entered, moving to the bedside with catlike swiftness,
                        his bland face beaming surprise and interrogntion,  He looked at Breyten as if he expected something tragic; but
                        his face quickly brightened.
                    "Ah, good-morning," he said, hying a hand gently upon his
                        patient's wrist. "You feel pretty well, I see.
                        Don't worry yourself to speak. I'm your
                        doctor,"this in answer to an inquiring look,"and I
                        don't want you to think or speak much for a while. Your pulse is
                        excellent, you are getting on famously. All that you need is rest. You must
                        be patient," Breyten had scowled atrociously at him; "you
                        must not excite yourself; you" "I want some watercold
                        water, a quartto drink," Breyten hoarsely interrupted
                        "I've a beastly thirst."
                    Obedient to the doctor's glance, the nurse shuffled out; but before
                        he returned with the water Breyten had fallen away again into a gentle
                        sleep, from which he did not  wake for two
                        hours. Hedreamed of Rosalynde. He saw her before him, close, and yet far
                        off, as if through miles of shimmering mist. He spoke to her, but without
                        voice, quite unable to make her hear; be tried to touch her, but his hand
                        lay poerless; at the same time he heard a dove cooing, and felt a light
                        current of air running over him with soothing effect, and he knew that the
                        window beside his bed was open. Then the old clock on the stairlanding
                        struck eleven, and he half opened his eyes.
                    Rosalyade Banderet was gliding towards the door that gave into the hall. Half
                        turned from him, her face showed a pretty, clear-cut profile.
                    "Don't go away from me; come back! come back!" he
                        suddenly called. "I want you."
                    She faced him with a quick startled  movement,
                        and a sweet smile flashed over her face. At the same time she laid her
                        finger on her mouth with a look that commanded silence. The nurse moved
                        around the bed, pretending to straighten the cover, and said.
                    "The doctor told you not to talk, sir,"
                    "And I told you that
                        I'll shy something heavy at your head," Breyten remarked,
                        almost in his natural voice, a ghastly flicker of good-natured impatience in
                        his countenance, "But if you fetch me a drink of cold water
                        we'll call it square."
                    Rosalynde had stopped by the door, after a step or two backward, and now she
                        moved aside to let the nurse pass out on his quest in Breyten's
                        behalf; then she again attempted to leave the room, not trusting herself to
                        look towards him.
                    "No; you stay, please," he said very  gently. "You won't go away and leave
                        me?"
                    "Harper will return in a minute," she replied.
                    "Harper? Who's Harper?"
                    "The man who nurses youwho just now went to get you water."
                    "That stupid lump! He has red hair, and he's
                        clammy."
                    The childish petulance of Breylen's voice affected Miss Banderet
                        strangely; she turned her eyes upon him again to see if his mind might be
                        wandering, but she could not at first be sure. He was frightfully haggard,
                        and his look had a most pathetic appeal in it; moreover, the ravages of pain
                        had not destroyed the noble beauty of his face; it had but given it an
                        almost unearthly strangeness. Furtively she had watched him during his
                        period of awful danger, with a sense of responsibility  for his condition; for she too was riding very fast when the
                        accident happened. It was unspeakable relief to her now, seeing in a moment
                        that he was coming to a more natural expression, and that his eyes gave
                        forth a gentle light when he said:
                    "You might be kind to a fellow in such need. Sit on the chair here
                        andwhat's the matter with me? My leg"
                    She moved quickly to his bedside. The nurse came in with the water.
                    "What has happened to me?" Breyten inquired after a pause,
                        during which he was weakly fumbling trying to make out the meaning of the
                        plaster east on his leg.
                    "You've been hurt, sir, and you mustn't
                        talk," said the nurse.
                    But he did talk, and finally there was nothing to do short of explaining
                        everything to him.
                    
                    In a few days, he was eating well and looking much better. Slowly his cheeks
                        filled out and his eyes regained their happy, steadfast, magnetic light.
                    Miss Banderet was kind to him. She chatted with him, saw that the housekeeper
                        and servants neglected nothing conducive to his comfort, and, when the
                        doctor at last permitted it, she read to him an hour every day. This hour
                        had its fascination growing upon Breyten rapidly from the first. He looked
                        forward to it with impatience and back at it with tender, reminiscent
                        delight. She had stately little ways, an inscrutable reserve, a glowing
                        country-girl complexion, and an intelligence which was apt to take him
                        unawares. He soon discovered that he had not been mistaken as to her
                        relations with Rayle. Unquestionably they were lovers; almost certainly they
                        were engaged.
                    
                    This was food for uneasy thought while he listened to her sweetly monotonous
                        reading of "Children of the Abbey" think of it,
                        "Children of the Abbey"! which she had come across in the
                        attic.
                    One day during the reading a little servant-girl came to the open door with
                        letters from the post-office. Rosalynde pounced eagerly upon her, and,
                        snatching the tray, selected her own mail, then gave Breyten his, and was
                        off to her room, leaving behind her an indescribable, tantalizing impression
                        of flower-like purity quaintly sophisticated with provincial wisdom. He lay
                        for a long time thinking over all that had passed since that day at the
                        bridge, and trying to realize the meaning of it, for somehow one always
                        feels that there is a meaning in each group of incidents affecting
                        one's life.
                    There was, however, a certain drop of  gall in
                        his cup of reflections. The glimpse of a foreign postage-stamp on one of
                        Rosalynde's letters, and the flush of joy on her cheek when she saw
                        it. told him that the missive was from Rayle.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Ten
                    During the tedious process of what Breyten called "sloughing his
                        shell," which was setting rid of the plaster cast, there was not
                        much that he could do for himself beyond nagging at the nurse, Harper, and
                        counting the seconds between times when Rosalynde, a punctual visitor, came
                        in to see him; but when at last the stiff crust was removed from his leg he
                        began forthwith to contemplate getting out of bed. Here again he surprised
                        the little surgeon, for the fractures were found to be already not only
                        firmly knit,  but in every way well, so that
                        within less than a week he could use his leg with almost perfect freedom.
                    "That's your sound constitution, your absolutely pure
                        blood, your vigorous nerve-centers," said the man of science in a
                        warmly appreciative tone. "You've never abused your fine
                        physique, and in turn it is good to you in your hour of need,"
                    Breyten decided that he would go back to the hotel, but General Banderet laid
                        his veto upon the proposition.
                    "No, sir, you will permit me to be firm," said the fine old
                        man. "I can not let you be hauled away from my house. Whenever the
                        doctor says that you can safely walk to the hotel, then you may go, if you
                        must. Meantime, just to please me, you will stay right where you
                        are."
                    The nominating convention was close  at hand,
                        and the General had little leisure. His young opponent showed great
                        resources and no scruples whatever in using them; he forced the old
                        "war-horse" to such a pitch of speed that there was danger
                        of a break. Excitement reached a stage pretty accurately indicated by the
                        newspaper headlines and double-leaded editorials, which somehow made the
                        very types look frantic. Breyten read the blatant literature of the campaign
                        with a growing impression that General Banderet was pretty sure to be
                        defeated; and for the first time in his life he felt a thrill of political
                        partisanship stir his blood.
                    "Unless something almost miraculous can be done in your
                        grandfather's favor," he suddenly remarked to Rosalynde
                        one morning, "he's going to be badly defeated in the
                        convention."
                    She started and gave him a quick look;  he saw
                        a faint pallor spread over her cheeks as she said: "Surely not. Why
                        do you think so?"
                    "Well, I hardly know. I've been reading the pros and cons
                        in the newspapers. Somehow I feel catastrophe in the air,"
                    He was sorry in a moment for having spoken at all,especially sorry, realizing
                        the brutal frankness of his words; but it was too late to avoid full
                        responsibility, so be went on giving in detail his reasons for fearing that
                        General Banderet was hardly holding his own in the race; but he softened his
                        tone.
                    Rosalynde regained her composure in a moment and listened without further
                        show of feeling. In fact, she had been for several days troubled about her
                        grandfather's political prospect, and it was more sudden
                        confirmation of her fears than surprise at Breyten's statement that
                        had  thrown her into momentary confusion. She
                        had heard General Banderet say more than once that defeat would mean his
                        complete and final retirement, which was equivalent to saying: "It
                        will be the end of all my hopes, the crushing of my life's
                        ambition. I shall have no further interest in existence."
                    She had a general impression of what a pitiful figure, what a pathetic wreck,
                        is the old and broken-down politician, stranded on the sand, so to speak,
                        and left all alone by his partisan friends, once so numerous, active, and
                        noisy; but she could not imagine her grandfather descending to that estate;
                        she dared not think of itwould not.
                    Yet what Breyten had said seemed to her weighted with authority, because it
                        came from him. Somehow he had forced her to believe in him at all points,
                        and yet he  had not made any apparent effort
                        to do it, rather the contrary in some particulars; for his whimsical humor
                        and frequent fretfulness on account of his confinement were not especially
                        impressive.
                    "I despise polities," she said, "and I can not
                        understand how a man like grandfather can be so enthusiastic, so vehement in
                        pursuit of office, when he says himself that there's no pay in
                        it."
                    "I imagine that it's not for the salary that he desires
                        election," Breyten replied. "The fascination lies deeper.
                        Ambition is a reckless rider, going at a breakneck gait for the glory of the
                        race and the mad sense of victory when the shouting and applause come
                        on."
                    "We gave a practical demonstration of it, I suppose, in our riding
                        the other day," she demurely suggested,"two ambitions  going blindly in opposite directions along
                        the same line."
                    "You earned the applause," he said; "but it
                        isn't always that it turns out so well. Mere brute weight usually
                        triumphs; at least it is so in politics, and the crowd admires the
                        triumphant scoundrel more than the wrecked gentleman. Force is
                        magnetic."
                    "It all seemsseems vulgar to me." She hesitated, then
                        added: "But menit is different to them, I suppose."
                    "Not to all of them."
                    "Not to you?"
                    "I have been so much abroad that I have never yet cast a vote, much
                        less entered into the scramble of politics."
                    "Alfred told me"she flushed"Mr. Rayle mentioned
                        your having studied art in Paris."
                    "He was wrong; I did not study, I 
                        played. I have always played. Study is a great bore. When you've
                        done your utmost and learned something of which you hope to be the one
                        master, you are humped against by a dozen or so fellows who know it ten
                        times better than you do. What's the use?"
                    "If you are a genius, it is different, isn't it?"
                    "We don't have geniuses nowadays. If any are born, they die
                        young. They starve early. They can't make a living. The specialists
                        rob them."
                    "How do you know?" she demanded. almost too peremptorily.
                        "Why do you say so?"
                    "From one end of the world to the other I've seen them
                        perishing, the poor fellows. In New York, not a cent; in London, not a
                        penny; in Paris, not a sou; in Rome, not a soldo; but they have statues  poems, paintingsgarrets full of them. They
                        died miserably, and nobody seemed to care a straw,"
                    She looked at him steadily, intently, while he was speaking. He saw that his
                        words hurt her; nor was he in doubt why they hurt her. Curiously enough, he
                        felt a stir of pleasure deep within him,he was glad to hurt her in that way.
                        But at the same time a pang of something like remorse cut across his
                        conscience: he ***ght to have detested himse."
                    "But AlfredMr. Rayleis unfortunate; he is crippled, and you advised
                        him" She checked herself. "I mean," she went on,
                        "that his case is different; he could not do physical
                        labor."
                    Breyten laughed at this absolutely frank disclosure of his real meaning.
                    "We won't apply my sweeping statements to Mr.
                        Rayle," he said. "I don't  think that he really fancies himself a genius"
                    "Yes, he does," she interrupted, "and so do I. He
                        is a genius, and he'll not failI know he won't."
                    "Pluck and dogged persistence are what I hope he has,"
                        Breyten said, making an effort to appear impartial.
                        "There's some chance in art, even now, for high sincerity
                        and enormous labor. I found that out while I was playing in a Paris studio.
                        I lacked everything that art demanded of me. I thought I was a genius. Labor
                        did not agree with me,it never does with a man who thinks he's a
                        genius; therefore I escaped the horrors of an artist's
                        life."
                    His lightness of tone scarcely deceived her, yet it gave her a certain
                        relief. He saw her face change.
                    "Maybe what you look upon as horrors 
                        are great delights to others," she ventured, not very confidently.
                        "You feel about art as I do about politics; but you and I must
                        admit that men have succeeded in both, and that they may again."
                    "It's owing to what we take for success," he
                        replied. "I don't call a lifelong fever, a continuous
                        state of burning discontent, and a death of despair success worth naming. I
                        never knew an artist who wasn't jealous of every other artist,
                        never saw one who wasn't sickly, who wasn't in debt, who
                        wouldn't sacrifice everybody and everything for his ambition. Show
                        me an artist, and I'll show you a thoroughly selfish and unreliable
                        person."
                    "You are chaffing," she said. "Be serious,
                        please." She paused; although she was smiling, he saw that her
                        heart was shaking the drapery below her throat. "I  really wish you to be perfectly
                        frmk," she presently added, "for I am interested. You can
                        tell me just what I want to know."
                    "If I can, I will," he promptly responded; "but
                        I'm afraid that I shall not be very comforting if I tell the square
                        truth."
                    "Do you think that Mr. Rayle can succeed as an artist?" she
                        demanded, with an inimitable blunt sweetness of speech.
                    He was wholly unprepared for this interrogatory, albeit he was not unaware of
                        her impulse and its source. Something in her voice, her looksomething not
                        before felt or seencaught him up breathless, and set him to thinking after
                        the manner of one who is suddenly forced into great peril. It was as if he
                        felt his hold upon something very precious slipping off by his own
                        carelessness, or rather  his own weakness of
                        grip. Not that he had been so bold as to think he held her in any way; but
                        he now realized how sweet and withal how heady was the draught of her
                        loveliness, and how precious the fine light of her girlish character. What
                        she had done for him during his time of twilight and doubt, while life sank
                        so low in his veins, came to mind with a surge. And he had hurt her, had
                        wilfully stabbed at her pure heart with the subtlest of poison on his
                        assassin knife! He was poet enough to make his figure of thought romntically
                        effective to his own imagination. Moreover, he was honest enough to realize
                        that the situation demanded something; of him as liberally unselfish as his
                        words of a moment before had been selfishly mean.
                    "I certainly hope Mr. Rayle will succeed," he presently
                        said. "Of course. I  do not know much
                        about him. He impressed me as a man of fine mind and character, and
                        he's handsome, attractive."
                    "But you have no confidence in the outcome of his venture; you think
                        he will fail; you may as well say it."
                    "And what do you think?" he demanded.
                    "I think" She hesitated in her peculiar way, turning a ring
                        on her finger, her head slightly to one side. "I don't
                        know. He's brave and determined. "What is possible to do
                        he will accomplish."
                    Breyten was thoughtful for some moments before he said:
                    "You must at least be prepared for failure. It's really the
                        most probable thing: but I don't regard it as calamity. He can come
                        back and go at something, else. Art is not the whole of life."
                    "I think that, too," she said, "but he  doesn't. To him it is different.
                        It's his lameness, I believe, that makes him so terribly in
                        earnest. I did not want him to go."
                    "You are going to marry Mr. Rayle?"
                    Breyten was not sure that such a question was in the least proper. His
                        training and experience had not been of a sort to lead him into the
                        refinements of conventional politeness, but he felt a sudden desire to reach
                        a perfect understanding with her, to have from her own lips confirmation of
                        what he already felt could not be doubted. And yet the mere thought sent a
                        chill through his heart.
                    "Yes," she answered promptly, as if almost eager to
                        acknowledge it; "we are to be married when he comes back from
                        Paris. It is no secret; our engagement has been announced. This is why I
                        wanted you to tell me just what you thought 
                        of his chance to win what he went for."
                    "He will win, he must win," Breyten said, in a tone that
                        was very sympathetic and encouraging. "In such a case I should win
                        or tear up the whole French metropolis," he added alter a pause.
                    "When I was there I had no incentive such assuch as you have given
                        him."
                    There came a splendid light into her eyes, while her cheeks paled a trifle,
                        and the fluttering of the drapery below her throat was renewed. Her lips
                        were slightly parted, but she was scarcely smiling.
                    "I hope that he is entirely worthy of you," Breylen
                        continued, his voice almost failing him. "Were I but in his place
                        " He caught himself and broke off the sentence. "If he is
                        worthy of his fortune, he will mould fate to his liking."
                    The girl's brown eyes read his heart 
                        while he was speaking in this half-evasive way, and she felt a strange pang
                        in her own breast; but there was nothing for her to say to him, nothing to
                        do but remark that her time was up, that she must go and attend to other
                        duties.
                    "My time is up, too," he said with a shadowy smile.
                        "I also must go. You have been so good to me. It's choking
                        me to say farewell." He rose and held out his hand. "What
                        a very angel of kindness and comfort you have been to me! Good-by."
                    "But no, you are not going now?" she said, making a move to
                        take his hand, but arresting it at the start. "Youyou are not well
                        enough." Her voice faltered in her throat.
                    "The doctor says I am. And besides. it's time: you know it
                        is. Good-by." He spoke huskily.
                    
                    She offered her hand now, and he was sensible enough to take no liberty of
                        pressure or detention. It was, indeed, a curiously abrupt leave-taking.
                        General Banderet was out.
                    "I will see him down town, soon, and give him my gratitude and
                        adieux." said Breyten, trying to be airily cheerful. And so he
                        went, not trusting himself to look back until the street-gate clinked behind
                        him. His heart was pounding at his throat, a sensation he had never before
                        felt, and while he stood for a long minute gazing at the stately old house,
                        he realized how powerless he was to resist something that had laid hold of
                        him. Moreover, he knew just what it was.
                    "I love her! I love her!" he panted forth, all unconscious
                        of the stage-face he was making, or of the almost ludicrous melodramatic
                        attitude he assumed as he  clutched the top of
                        the gate and appeared on the point of rending it.
                    Then he let go his hold on the gate and turned towards the hotel, shaking off
                        the mood with a smile of returning self-confidence. He walked without
                        limping, scarcely showing a sign of his recent injuries.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Eleven
                    As soon as Breyten was gone, Rosa-Ivnde began to realize that his presence in
                        the house had meant a great deal to her. A lonesome silence seemed to have
                        filled the halls and chamhers when she turned from an upper window, whence,
                        through a rift in the foliage, she had seen him walk away, tall and
                        straight, along the tree-shaded pavement. He disappeared after a pace or
                        two, leaving in her brain an impression not easily cast out.
                    A few minutes later, when the morning mail was handed in, there were two
                        letters  from Rayle and his photograph, the
                        latter a tiny, unmounted portrait strikingly lifelike and handsome.
                        Rosalynde turned to these with frank delight; but somehow Paris seemed
                        infinitely distant, as if borne suddenly away to the dimmest of horizons,
                        and the half-smiling face of her lover gave forth no influence save that of
                        remoteness and complete separation. The clear, dark eyes looked at her
                        without interest or speculation; their gaze was a steadfast. luminous
                        indifference.
                    She read the letters, however, to better effect, for Rayle's style
                        of writing conveyed an immediate impression of reality, and she quickly
                        warmed to his enthusiastic descriptions of his new experiences and
                        surroundings. He had not yet begun his studies, but was going up and down
                        Paris, feasting his provincial eyes  upon the
                        fascinating urban wonders opening at every turn
                    One thing in the letter of latest date struck Rosalynde with the force of a
                        revelation. It referred to the money which had been so mysteriously sent to
                        Rayle.
                    "I have been thinking it over." he wrote, "and I
                        now feel tolerably certain that our friend Breyten is the person who
                        furnished the money. I do not know that he is rich, but he must be, and I
                        remember things that he said to me, things not particularly significant at
                        the time, yet almost conclusive to my mind when I consider them in
                        perspective and with the light of all the circumstances to help me. Of
                        course, I may be quite off my conclusion, so it will be best not to speak of
                        it. Whoever it was who sent the money, the amount is but a loan; I am going
                        to pay it back with interest. What a chance it has  given me! I feel the inspiration of it in every drop of my
                        blood."
                    The suggestion of the paragraph corresponded in some way with
                        Rosalynde's mood, and it added greatly to her romantic impression
                        of Breyten's personality. She immediately suspected that her
                        grandfather's money had come from the same source that had supplied
                        Rayle. It was like a fairy story; it burst upon her imagination with strange
                        splendor; and at the same time it seemed to confirm and perfect certain
                        hitherto inchoate suspicions which she had been unable to grasp fully or
                        fairly examine.
                    Rayle had talked to her so much about the power of money, had pictured to her
                        the almost omnipotent influence of riches with such reckless eloquence, that
                        the bare possibility of Breyten's turning out to be a millionaire
                        in the disguise of a careless  tourist awheel
                        had a dazzling yet some-what depressing effect upon her mind. She sat by a
                        window and looked forth, without seeing the trees in the old garden or the
                        robins on the grass. Curiously enough, her lover had passed out of her mind;
                        his letters and photograph lay unnoticed in her lap.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Twelve
                    General Banderet was beaten.
                    At the last moment his young competitor for the nomination shook a political
                        trump card out of his sleeve with irresistible effect; the Banderet forces
                        were surprised to such a degree that, within the time at command, they could
                        not rearrange themselves to meet the new issue, and all was lost.
                    At about three in the afternoon the first news of the catastrophe reached
                        Hawford by wire from Indianapolis. Breyten had arranged to have an early
                        message, but a  elique of local politicians
                        were ahead of him, and the rumor passed along the street before his first
                        dispatch arrived. He heard men telling one another; some were swearing
                        viciously and some were rejoicing. His first thought was of Rosalynde, whom
                        he had not seen since leaving the Banderet home.
                    Just before he went to Indianapolis to open what he spoke of as his
                        "headquarters" at a hotel, General Banderet had called
                        upon Breyten, and what he said took the young man somewhat by surprise. The
                        General was nothing if not warm in his manner, and he professed great
                        embarrassment.
                    "I could not get up the courage to mention it while you were at my
                        house." he said; "and then, as you know, I was at home
                        very little during your convalescence. This devilish campaign took all  of my time. But I feel in honor bound to tell
                        you that when the doctors thought you were going' to die, I looked
                        into your papers, and so discovered who you are." He hesitated a
                        moment, as if expecting Breyten to speak, then added: "But
                        I've kept your secret from everybody. Not a soul but myself knows
                        it. I hope, sir, that you'll not think I did wrong."
                    "You did exactly right, General." said Breyten, as soon as
                        he could pull himself together. "I am glad that you were so
                        thoughtful, and I can never repay your disinterested and noble kindness. I
                        have been trying to see you ever since I came away from your house; I wanted
                        to tell you"
                    "My dear sir, noit was nothing, less than nothing. My
                        granddaughter's carelessness in running against you was the cause
                        of it all, and the very least that I  could do
                        was the most that I could do, which was poor enough."
                    "Miss Banderet did not run against me," Breyten replied
                        with emphasis. "I dashed right over her, and, besides, I was on the
                        wrong side of the road, scorching like a blind idiot. She was not in the
                        least to blame; she couldn't have got out of my way to save her
                        life."
                    "You are generous, and I won't argue the point,"
                        the General said suavely; "I only say what she reported.
                        Rosalyndemy granddaughtersaid that you were not in the least to blame. She
                        said that she was riding as fast as she could go and paying no earthly
                        attention to what or who might be coming. But let that go. I'm so
                        glad that you're both out of it so well that I don't care
                        whose fault it was."
                    "Well, I do care," Breyten insisted. "It is an
                        abominable injustice to lay the  slightest
                        blame upon Miss Banderet, and it sha'n't he
                        done."
                    The old man smiled in his most bland and gracious way,the smile had always
                        been his chief political attraction, and long practice had arranged the
                        wrinkles in his face read to produce it with the least possible effort on
                        his part.
                    "I had but a moment before going to my train," the General
                        said, rising and lifting his great smile with him, "and I ran in to
                        say just a word or two." He extended his hand as Breyten rose also.
                        "I must hurry away. Only four days until the convention sits; and I
                        have hot, hard work before me. I dread it."
                    "I heartily wish you success," said Breyten. "Is
                        there anything that I can possibly do to aid you? If so, command me,
                        General; I am yours for all I am worth."
                    
                    The young man's transparent sincerity was so different from what
                        General Banderet's experience with political friends had kept
                        before him that it sent something like a waft of refreshment through him.
                        His smile changed, his eyes softened. He said: "Thank you, sir,
                        thank you. No, it's with the party leaders now, and I think
                        I'm all right. From this on the struggle will be along the line of
                        seeret combinations with the candidates for the other offices. But I must be
                        off. See you again when I come back."
                    On his way to the railway station General Banderet stepped into the bank to
                        get some money, and was informed that another credit of ten thousand dollars
                        had been surreptitiously added to his account. He drew a small amount and
                        went his way in a fever of delight, for now he felt sure that the money came
                        from the coffers  of an enormously rich
                        presidential candidate, who in his own interest wanted him nominated; and if
                        this were so, it would follow that the deus ex machina,
                        which, according to political custom, had to be let down in the
                        convention's midst to control things at the last moment, must be
                        favorable to the Banderet cause.
                    Breyten was not surprised when the rumor of General Banderet's
                        defeat reached him; he had expected it; yet he could not guard against a
                        stroke of unreasonable disappointment, and it irritated him to hear the
                        hotel loungers making their brutal comments. Somehow Rosalynde seemed to him
                        so closely connected with her grandfather's fate that it was as if
                        her name and fame were being; bandied by the political rabble.
                    What would be the effect upon her? His first impulse was to go forthwith to
                             her with a goodly burden of cheer to
                        lavish upon her. Certainly a bright and light-hearted girl of her character
                        would not take a matter of this sort too seriously; and would it not be a
                        proper thing for him to help her turn the optimistic side of the incident
                        firmly outward?"
                    Then suddenly his heart sank as he thought of Rayle standing in his way and
                        forbidding every gentle and tender act. The girl's accepted lover
                        had the exclusive right to what he, Breyten, was turning over in his mind as
                        a ravishing anticipation.
                    He sat there scarcely aware of the gabbling crowd of excited and beery
                        politicians; their comments no longer irritated him; he was wrestling with
                        himself.
                    It is not in the nature of a bold-hearted young man to doubt his ability to
                        win the girl he loves over all comers. Breyten felt  sure he could make Rosalynde love him to the utter destruction
                        of every claim that Rayle had upon her. He even fancied that already he had
                        stirred her heart. Cut could he honorably go a single step farther? Was not
                        complete and unconditional abandonment of the field the imperious demand of
                        duly? Duty! that is a cup of wormwood offered instead of the wine for which
                        our whole being thirsts. He made a wry face at the thought. And then there
                        was a fresh stir, with broken ejaculations and a quick grouping of the men
                        around the desk, where messages were being received.
                    "Dead! General Banderet? How's that?"
                    "Dropped dead on the platform in the convention hall."
                    "The devil you say!"
                    
                    Breyten was listening with suspended breath.
                    "How'd it happen?"
                    "Read that despatch."
                    Men tiptoed to look over one another's shoulders, while some person
                        in the center of the compact group read aloud:
                    "INDIANAPOLIS, 3:12 P. M. General
                            Lucien Banderet fell in an apoplectie fit while attempting to move the
                            unanimous endorsement of the nominee. He died before medical aid could
                            avail. Great confusion and excitement."
                    "Pore old man, he was hit hard," said a benevolent-looking
                        fellow who wore the opposition badge. "He ortn't to a-run;
                        he was too old."
                    Breyten let fall his paper and sprang to his feet. In the intensity of his
                        feeling it was as if he saw the blow of the terrible news fall upon
                        Rosalynde.
                    
                    With a blur of conflicting emotions in his mind, he made some hurried
                        inquiries of the men nearest to him, and then sought the quiet of his room
                        to be alone while he considered what he must do. He could not escape from
                        the shadowy half-impression that in some way he had been instrumental in
                        developing the tragedy which must cast upon a young; and inexperienced girl
                        a terrible shock and perhaps change her whole life.
                    In the course of a few moments he received a telegraphic message confirming
                        what had already been made public, with the additional statement that the
                        General's body would be taken at once to Hawford.
                    Breyten could not think; the whole tragedy, grim and dark, was refractory
                        when he tried to consider it. One thing, however, was clear to him; it would
                        be unbearable to see Rosalynde and not be 
                        able to try to comfort her; and besides, what right had he to go to her in
                        her affliction? He walked to and fro with his hands clasped behind him. What
                        was he to do? He could not retreat, he could not go forward.
                    In fact, he did nothing. He even forgot his dinner and went to bed late to
                        toss from side to side and argue with himself. Next day he avoided the hotel
                        lobby and did not go out to take the walk which since his recovery had been
                        a daily comfort and source of reinvigoration. What was going on in his mind
                        made him feel the need of absolute isolation and, so to speak, insulation.
                    In spite of himself, a sense of guilt hovered close to every thought, and
                        from this, had he been older, he might have foretold the outcome of his
                        moral ferment. But he  was young, and youth is
                        as obtuse and uncertain as it is agile and flexible.
                    Over and over he said: "It is a question of privilege." And
                        then he leaped up, shaking his head like a young lion. "Love is
                        free. He wins who can!" he cried. His own voice made him
                    recoil.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Thirteen
                    After the funeral of Rosalynde's grandfather it was announced in the
                        newspapers that Dr. Roger Banderet, with his wife and daughter, had arrived
                        from New Orleans and would spend some time at the home of his brother, the
                        late General Lucien Banderet. The public was further informed that, by the
                        General's will, Miss Rosalynde was made the sole successor to her
                        grandfather's estate, and that as soon as the proper formalities of
                        a legal settlement were over  she would go
                        with her relatives to live in New Orleans.
                    Breyten read this, and felt a sudden fear that should he delay longer
                        Rosalynde might he gone away before he could see her, even to say good-by.
                        But could he trust himself to say good-by? Could he say it?
                    The next day he was called to Indian apolis upon business which to most men
                        would have proved very exciting. His lawyer had hastened from New York with
                        papers for him to sign in connection with an estate suddenly falling to him
                        from an eccentric bachelor uncle just dead.
                    But additional millions really meant little to him, nor did his
                        uncle's death disturb him, for he had never seen that somewhat
                        disreputable and very miserly kinsman, nor had he heard the least good of
                        him from any source whatever.  He did not at
                        once try to realize what the doubling of his income stood for in the way of
                        personal influence and material power, and his acceptance of the estate was
                        perfunctory to the last degree.
                    From Indianapolis he had to go to Chicago, then to Milwaukee and Minneapolis,
                        where tedious processes of court transfers of large real estate interests
                        occupied him for several weeks: At times he felt that the play was not worth
                        the candle. Why should he waste all this precious time obeying; the beek and
                        call of that sordid god. Business? It were better to lose all the old
                        miser's grimy treasure than to miss one accent of
                    But here he always broke off, for there was something in him that recoiled.
                    Matters dragged; the careful and plodding lawyer insisted upon patience and
                        orderly attention to every detail as it came 
                        up for consideration; and so September was hanging a new moon in her dusky
                        evening's sky when Breyten once more reached Hawford. By this time
                        he had settled the question as to what he would do, and he meant to do it.
                        Rosalynde and Alfred Rayle were lovers and engaged to be married. To
                        interfere, or try to interfere, would be wrong. His duty was clear. He would
                        be a man, in short, and face the inevitable with a firm countenance. All he
                        had to do was very simple; he would call upon Miss Banderet,he sternly
                        thought of her now as Miss Banderet,say good-by, and be off about his
                        pleasure. He was in such haste to carry out this simple plan of action that
                        when he reached the hotel he could scarcely be reasonable and wait until
                        eight o'clock, which somehow he had learned was the hour for
                        evening calls in Hawford.
                    
                    A pile of letters, accumulated during his long absence from the hotel, lay on
                        his table, but he did not open them, or even look them over. They could wait
                        a few hours longer; in the morning would be time enough.
                    The streets were empty when he went out; everybody had gone to the opera
                        house to listen to a speech by the candidate for governor. In passing an
                        alley Breyten looked up the forlorn stairway leading to Rayle's
                        studio. The electric light from the saloon opposite shone upon the grimy
                        ladder. It was not a pleasant moment in which to recall Rayle's
                        position as master of fate, and unconsciously Breyten hastened his steps.
                        When he reached the Banderet homestead there was no gleam in the windows. He
                        stood on the threshold in the dark for a while, hearing 
                        
                            
                                the light shone upon the forlorn stairway leading to
                                    Rayle's studio
                            
                        
                         only a screech-owl and a gentle soughing in
                        the trees.
                    He listened, and a queer sense of isolation and defeat came upon him; then he
                        banged the heavy knocker until growling echoes and clanking responses seemed
                        to return from every room within. The house was untenanted, as the very
                        atmosphere declared, and Breyten felt as empty as if life itself had gone
                        from him on a visit. He crammed his hands deep into his pockets and stood
                        scowling at the surrounding gloom. There was nothing; to do but go back to
                        the hotel and wait until he could find out whither the Banderets had flown.
                        Then he reflected that it certainly was none of his business to be hunting
                        on the track of people who cared nothing; for him. So he strode straightway
                        to his rooms with his head high, doughtily smiling to think-how strong he
                        was.
                    
                    Among the letters on his table lay one from Rayle. He knew it as soon as he
                        spied it, although he never before had seen the man's chirography.
                        It may have been the Paris postmark that conveyed the impression, or it may
                        have been intuitive grasp of probabilities; at all events, he tore open the
                        envelope and unfolded the letter with no kindly feeling for the writer. not
                        anticipating anything worth reading. and yet greedily seanning the lines.
                        Somehow the man's name was a burden to Breyten now, the memory of
                        him a shadow in his mind. As for the letter, it surprised him. He read it
                        twice: 
                            
                                
                                    "DEAR MR. BREYTEN: When you receive
                                            this letter I shall be in the hands of a surgeon
                                            specialist who is to make my leg straight. He's
                                            a great doctor; maybe you've heard of him, Dr.
                                            Jules de Montravin.  He
                                            says that I am to be a perfect physical man in a few
                                            weeks. He guarantees it. You know what this means to me,
                                            and to Rosalynde. It means more than art or fame or
                                            fortune. I am not letting Rosalynde know that I am doing
                                            this. She would worry and imagine dire results; and,
                                            besides, I want to come home and surprise her.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Now I've got to tell you
                                            more, which you will keep sacredly secret. I have
                                            abandoned art. I can't see how I ever began
                                            with it. The masters here showed me quickly that
                                            I've not the least call to painting, not even
                                            sign painting. This has made me willing to undergo the
                                            terrible ordeal of the hospital. If I come out all right
                                            I'll go at the law or medicine or ministry or
                                            real estate or anything. If I die, it's all
                                            over
                                    
                                    
                                        "To be blunt and honest with you, I
                                                 must tell you that I
                                            think you are the one who gave me my chance in life. If
                                            I am wrong, you'll not care; if I am right,
                                            words are no evidence of the obligation and thankfulness
                                            I feel. Rosalynde writes me often about you; she thinks
                                            you a wonderful man, and so do I. If I come out of this
                                            with perfect limbs I'll be a wonderful man
                                        too.
                                    
                                    
                                        "I felt bound to tell you all this,
                                            which may not interest you in the least. The thought
                                            that probably you furnished the money to pay my way
                                            seemed to make it right for me to let you know what I am
                                            doing. At all events, you have my secret now, and I
                                            implicitly trust you to keep it.
                                    
                                    
                                        "I was about to forget one thing,
                                            perhaps the most important, certainly the most
                                            disagreeable, of all. I am writing a lot of letters to
                                            Rosalynde, to be dated properly hereafter and sent to
                                            her during  the time that
                                            I shall be under torture and unable to write or dictate
                                            or do anything but groan or lie in the stupor of drugs.
                                            These letters will tell her how well I am doing in my
                                            studies, and all that, to keep her happy. As soon as
                                            I'm over it I shall write the whole truth to
                                            her. God bless her and you.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Yours sincerely.
                                        
                                        "ALFRED RAYLE"
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The letter was posted on the day of General Banderet's death.
                        Doubtless Rayle had entered hospital before the tragic news reached him, or
                        more probably it had not reached him at all, as his doctor would almost
                        certainly forbid anything exciting while an operation so delicate and
                        dangerous was going on.
                    To Breyten the time had seemed so long that now, as he looked back to
                        Rayle's last interview with him, he found  himself wondering if it might not be that Rayle was dead,
                        Surely some word would have come from him had the surgery been successful.
                        But then while in hospital he could not write; he had said so in his letter,
                        and, besides, it would be to Rosalynde that the first news would go.
                    There was another letter, however, lying on the table that very moment, which
                        presently Breyten read. It was from the great Parisian specialist. It ran in
                        substance thus:
                    
                        "Your friend, Mr. Alfred Rayle, who is under treatment
                            with me, begs me to say to you that he is doing very well and will be
                            perfectly cured at the end of two months from this time. He particularly
                            wishes you to tell no one anything about his condition."
                    
                    Distance takes the reality out of things by hanging over them a mist of
                        vagueness.  Breyten had traveled enough to
                        overcome the illusion, but yet he could not feel the immediate touch of fact
                        from what he had read, He tried to imagine how Rayle would look standing up
                        firmly on two good, Straight legs. He even attempted to measure the
                        rearranged man with himself. They would be different; but he feared that
                        Rayle might be the handsomer, so dark, so magnetic, so finely and massively
                        regular were his features. He crumpled the doctor's letter
                        impatiently.
                    Other surprises awaited him in the yet unopened missives on the table. A
                        small photograph, taken from a portrait of his mother painted by a
                        celebrated artist, fell out of an envelope along with a sheet of dainty
                        note-paper, on which he read:
                    
                        "Somehow I must have sent the wrong picture in my
                            other note. Won't you  please
                            return it to me at Old Point Comfort?
                    
                    ROSALYNDE BANDERET."
                    After a few moments given freely to dizzy gazing at the signature, as if it
                        had been Rosalynde herself, he nervously fingered the remaining envelopes
                        for "my other note" until he found it. His heart quivered,
                        or seemed to, and a tender sense of weakness crept through him when he drew
                        forth another little photograph. Then his eyes dilated dreamily; for there
                        she was, Rosalynde, just as he saw her under the bridge. He almost forgot to
                        read the accompanying note, so long was he absorbed in gazing and
                        remembering.
                    
                        We are leaving for Old Point Comfort. I saw in the newspapers
                            that you were to be absent some time, so I inclose this photograph,
                            which you told me was of your mother. You left it in a book, and I
                            accidentally found it,"
                    
                    
                    The date opposite Miss Banderet's signature was more than three
                        weeks in the past, and he saw that the other note had been posted at
                        Washington City. But the photograph, although a trifle worn, as if by much
                        carrying about and indifferent handling, was sufficiently vivid to hold
                        Breyten's eyes away from everything else. He looked at it and
                        dreamed over it until far in the night. The round, frank eyes, the sweet,
                        immature mouth, the softly oval cheeks, the lissome form, were those of a
                        girl in her mid-teens, a girl just blooming into what Rosalynde was on the
                        day of their meeting at the bridge. A painter might have made much of
                        Breyten's unconscious pose. The picture lay flat upon the table
                        almost between his elbows, while, with his hands in his hair, clutching the
                        bright, short locks on either side of his big head, he gazed and smiled  and frowned and chewed his mustache, as
                        though mad and glad and perplexed, but, over all, despairing.
                    The last thought before he went to sleep was that he would have a copy of the
                        photograph before he sent it back, Nor did conscience seem to take
                        cognizance of his purpose, for early next morning he went straightway and
                        accomplished it without a qualm; and for fear something might go wrong with
                        the negative, he kept the original until he had his finished copy, a
                        remarkably good one, in hand.
                    By this time he was ready to write what he regarded as a well-considered and
                        thoroughly disinterested letter to Miss Banderet. He was so fastidious about
                        the composition, indeed, that he was more than a week doing it; but when at
                        last it seemed just what it ought to be, he mailed  it with the tiny picture carefully inclosed; nor did he find
                        out, until too late, that, by some unaccountable slip, he had sent the copy
                        instead of the original. Somehow the discovery touched him accurately upon
                        the spring that loosed the jocund spirit so natural to him, and he laughed
                        in his old boyish, hearty way, holding the picture before him and gazing at
                        it as if it had said or done something extremely mirth-provoking, albeit the
                        sweet, open look of the girl's eyes was bewitchingly serious.
                    "It is preposterous!" he presently thought.
                        "It's outrageous! And what will she say? God bless
                        her!"
                    He kissed the picture at least twenty times before a wave of soberness
                        checked him, and then he thought of Rayle.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Fourteen
                    Now this is what Breyten wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    "DEAR MISS
                                            BANDERET: Both of your
                                            notes were on my table when I returned nearly a month
                                            after they were written. I read the second one first;
                                            then I was in a great hurry to open the other and when I
                                            did open it the inclosure surprised and delighted me.
                                            The photograph shows you exactly as you looked that day
                                            under the bridge. I see you before me while I write,
                                            your eyes gazing past me with a vast, sweet, ravishing
                                            indifference. Precisely so does this little photograph
                                            which  I so grudgingly
                                            will return to you in this letter.
                                    
                                    
                                        "I am of half a mind to keep this
                                            forlorn little picture of you. Somehow I feel that
                                            possession of its original in my deepest memory has
                                            proved my right to hold fast the shadow. As I probably
                                            shall never see you again, as I probably ought never to
                                            see you again, and knowing that you are not to be
                                            troubled with what I may tell you about myself, I am
                                            going to say the whole truth. The moment that I saw you
                                            at the bridge out yonder you took a deep hold of my
                                            heart. I feel that I have loved you passionately every
                                            moment since we met. But since I found out your
                                            engagement to Mr. Rayle I have been trying to reconcile
                                            myself to the inevitable. I can not do it; I can only
                                            stand upon my honor; I can only say to myself that you
                                            are beyond my reach  that
                                            I must not try to reach you. You love Rayle; he is a
                                            splendid fellow; he loves you; you two are engaged to be
                                            married; that is all. I am outside and must stay there.
                                            I see in the eyes of this picture that from the first
                                            you were sealed against me; you were reserved for Rayle.
                                            It is hard on me; but then what a stroke of high, sweet
                                            fortune for Rayle! I go down, he goes up. What a weight
                                            it is that bears me down, and what a lift of joy is his!
                                            I ought not to wish or even dream of shifting my burden
                                            to him.
                                    
                                    
                                        "In writing all this to you I feel
                                            doubtful and uneasy about my right to do itnot my right
                                            to love you, for somehow that seems unquestionable and a
                                            thing to die by. The trouble is Rayle. The man rushhed
                                            into my sympathy and regard at our first meeting. He
                                            scented so earnest, so sincere, and so brave under great
                                            disadvantage,  and it
                                            seems to me that you must have given him his
                                        courage.
                                    
                                    
                                        "When I returned and found that you
                                            were gone. my first impulse was to follow you, to keep
                                            you in sight, to linger near you. But what right have I.
                                            I thought, to go where she is? So I am not going to
                                            follow you; I am going as far from you as I can, not to
                                            try to forget you,I can never do that.but to be sure
                                            that you shall not suffer on my account.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Just now, when I looked from this
                                            writing to your picture, the face seemed to smile upon
                                            some one far off, past me. And then suddenly I was under
                                            the bridge, and the storm was on. and your arms went
                                            around me light, light, so that I felt a great, sweet
                                            joy tingle all through me. I can write this frankly,
                                            because I am never to see you again, and because your
                                            love for Rayle will prevent everything  that else might come of
                                            such a confession; but it seems unnatural, somehow; that
                                            you should have loved any man but me, and I tell you now
                                            that I shall never feel differently about it, no matter
                                            what comes.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Doubtless I am seeming very foolish
                                            to you, as you read this; for I think it is quite
                                            impossible to make intelligible explanation of an inward
                                            condition like mine, or to give any adequate excuse for
                                            what I am compelled to write. My whole future seems
                                            uninteresting, not worth living in, and I am without
                                            aim. Why should I have met you at the bridge out yonder?
                                            Why did you nurse me back to life?
                                    
                                    
                                        "I do not mean to be foolishly
                                            sentimental; what good could it do? And besides, it is
                                            not my nature to pule and mope; but what is life worth
                                            when a man loses what I have? What would life be  worth to you were you to
                                            find that Alfred Rayle loved not you, but another girl?
                                            That is a practical question which makes my condition
                                            somewhat within your reach. Look at it seriously. What
                                            would life be worth to Rayle if he were to discover that
                                            you were in love with some other man? Imagine the thing
                                            in that brutal way. You see that it would be like the
                                            end of life.
                                    
                                    
                                        "But how shall I end this letter?
                                            Something drags at me and tells me that I ought to fear
                                            it up and end it so. A weight of doubtabout my right to
                                            tell you how I feelhinders thought and confuses my
                                            language, so that I do not say just what I wish to. Yet
                                            I am somehow quite sure that your dear heart will tell
                                            you what I can not.
                                    
                                    
                                        "I inclose your picture. I want to
                                            keep it, and I do not want to keep it. It is you,  and it is not you. It
                                            gladdens me, and it overwhelms me with despair. I do not
                                            know what I am going to do. No need to stay here; for I
                                            hear that you are not coming back any more, and I do not
                                            expect you to answer this letter. You can not answer it,
                                            What could you say? You are happy and deserve to be
                                            happy always, and it can not matter with you if I never
                                            again find the old careless, merry life so suddenly
                                            snatched from me. But one thing I know: you will never
                                            forget
                                    
                                    
                                        "FREDERICK BREYTEN."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    After this absurd letterit seemed to Breyten to grow in absurdity as days
                        went byhad floated down the stream of the mail going eastward, and after a
                        whole week of unaccountable lislessness, Breyten began to expect an answer.
                        But how could there be an answer? He had  had
                        nothing to write, and he had written worse than nothing. Rosalynde would be
                        a strange girl were she to take any notice of such an epistle. Still, there
                        he was for more than a fortnight, lingering at Haw ford, and growing excited
                        whenever the postman arrived at the little hotel.
                    If he had known that his letter to Miss Banderet was following her from Old
                        Point Comfort to Asheville, thence to Aiken, and on to Savannah, to Atlanta,
                        to Lookout Mountain, and then to Birmingham, Mobile, and finally New
                        Orleansif he had known of that long, slow chase, he might still have waited.
                        But how could he know? Time bore upon him like an atmosphere strangely
                        stale. He walked out to the Banderet place and took a doleful last look at
                        it, then went straight to New York, where two weeks later he met Rayle, who
                        had just arrived  from Paris; and what a
                        splendid figure he was!straight as an arrow, admirably proportioned, and of
                        noble presence; a dark, magnetic, powerful-looking man. The distinguished
                        surgeon had done his work to perfection.
                    They met in one of the great hotels, coming face to face so suddenly that
                        both stopped short, and, half recoiling, stood for a moment gazing. Breyten
                        turned slightly pale, but Rayle flushed and looked glad, extending his hand
                        presently with a hearty exclamation of greeting. Two handsomer men,opposite
                        and perfect types of masculine beauty,never shook hands in the great
                    city.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Fifteen
                    At a considerable distance from Canal Street, on St. Charles, in New Orleans,
                        the Banderet residence, a stately mansion withdrawn amid its tropical trees
                        behind a massive brick wall, attracts the eye of every passer who has a
                        taste for the picturesque. The heavey iron gate has a mighty lock, and
                        through the bars there shimmers, as if drowsily, the greenery of a
                        remarkable garden, across which a straight, broad, white walk leads to a
                        flight of stone steps, rising to a heavy veranda, where vines flourish.
                    
                    We must enter this guarded close if we wish to see once more Rosalynde
                        Banderet; for this is the home of Dr. Roger Banderet, a man of great wealth,
                        who will henceforth be Rosalynde's protector and adviser.
                    It is a hot day, even for New Orleans, and the afternoon drags slowly. A
                        light breeze pants in the foliage that darkens the veranda and seems to be
                        dying there, while in hammocks swung side by side Rosalynde and her cousin,
                        as she calls her great-uncle's daughter Angelie, are drowsing and
                        chatting by turns. dressed as becomes the weather and the place. Angelie has
                        just the slightest creole lisp on her tongue, and in figure and face looks
                        more French than Rosalynde, though resembling her in a marked degree. She is
                        the child of her father's old age, her mother being a young creole
                            
                        
                            
                                through the bars of the iron gate shimmers the greenery
                                    of a garden
                            
                        
                         woman by whom came the doctor's
                        great wealth, the fortune of a second marriage.
                    Angelie was busier with her tongue than Rosalynde. Her remarks ranged from
                        beaux to mosquitos, and were interspersed with snatches of song
                        bewitch-ingly delivered. The divine magic was in her voice, as the ravishing
                        power of beauty was in her face and form. One must have felt at a glance
                        that she was far more wordly-wise than Rosalynde; and certainly her form
                        showed richer outlines, her face greater maturity of development; yet she
                        was more girl than woman by every sign we usually take for our guessing.
                    "I told papa it was too early to come to New Orleans," she
                        melodiously grumbled, meantime lying almost on her back and picking at a
                        Cuban fan, "but he heard something about the cotton market that  made him deliriously anxious to see his
                        broker. Heigho, men are such delightful idiots! Don't you just love
                        'em and hate 'em? Now, for example, there's
                        Freddie Amsley; he's charming until you mention the exchange or
                        cotton, then off he goes, crazy as can be."
                    Rosalynde knew little enough about how men gambled in the cotton game, but
                        she had vivid memories of her grandfather's troubles with the wheat
                        game in Chicago, his winings and his losings, his ups and his downs,the
                        downs gradually but surely gaining on the ups, until there were no ups. She
                        did not respond to Angelie's prattle, but let her mind reach out
                        after the dear old home at Hawford.
                    "What is your handsome and noble bicyclist's
                        name?" Angelie went on in her inconsequent, skipping way. referring
                        to  a previous conversation about Breyten.
                        "I can't keep it."
                    "Breyten," said Rosalynde absently.
                    "Well, I should think he might at least write to you and tell you
                        something romantic. And he's a poet too! I'm afraid. Rose,
                        my sweet, that you neglected to get your charm woven over him as you ought.
                        Tall, commanding, you say he is, and fair, with golden hair and honest,
                        earnest, eloquent eyes. Ah me! Somehow no such romantic knights-errant ever
                        come my way. Nobody but men like Freddie Ams-leyyoung men who talk money
                        instead of romanceare fated to cross my orbit. And this Mr. Breyten is a
                        trifle mysterious too, you told me. I think. Couldn't you decoy him
                        down here? I dote upon mysteries, especially when they are magnificently
                        tall and fair and handsome, and, as you say he is, good and high-minded  besides. Where is his home? He is an
                        American, of course. Does he jump at every newspaper he sees and turn to the
                        market quotations? Tell me more about him. Rose. Since he has my photograph,
                        all by your fault, you ought to betray him to me in every possible
                        way."
                    "Indeed, Angelic, there's nothing strange or mysterious or
                        particularly romantic about Mr. Breyten," said Rosalynde.
                        "He is handsome, strikingly handsome, with a
                        certain distinguished air, and he is large in both body and mind, although
                        you don't notice his height and proportions until he stands near
                        you and you look up. Then he seems to tower above you, and he smiles down at
                        you as if you were such a wee thing and very well worth his kind and tender
                        attention."
                    "Adorable!" exclaimed Angelic; "and, of course,
                        your sweet little provincial  heart was so
                        full of one Mr. Alfred Rayle, away in Paris, that there was no room for this
                        young giant, who, as I well know, fell desperately in love with you. Now,
                        honor bright, Rosalynde, didn't Mr. Frederick Breyten show strong
                        symptoms of passionate regard for you?"
                    "He knew of my engagement to Alfred," said Rosalynde, as a
                        maid came out upon the veranda with some letters on a tray, "and he
                        was, of course, not going to be so foolish as tooh, for me? Any for me,
                        Lorette?"
                    
                        "Mais oui, Mam'selle," the maid
                        answered, with a pretty French gesture of affirmation.
                    And it was thus that Breyten's persevering epistle finally reached
                        its goal, after as crooked a course and as many delays as ever hindered a
                        flight. Rosalynde looked curiously at the much-erased and  often-renewed superscription, and the
                        numerous postmarks on the envelope. Two letters from Rayle had to wait;
                        There was a flash of carmine in her cheeks, deepening as she broke the seal.
                    "Here's your picture, Angie," she said, unable to
                        hide a breathless eagerness, and holding the photograph out at
                        arm's length, without looking from the letter.
                    "Oh, it is from your delightful friend, ch?
                        Fortunate girl!" Angelic took the photograph, but did not look at
                        it. "But you read his letter before you open the two from your
                        accepted lover! Ah, my dearest, there's romance in all this. And
                        what a letter! A whole volume,and how excited you look! It must be
                        ravishing."
                    Rosalynde flung herself out of the hammock, and, speaking not a word, went to
                        her room.
                    
                    
                        "And now what?" said Angelic, gazing after
                                her cousin
                        
                    
                    
                    "And now really what?" said Angelie, sitting up and gazing
                        inquiringly, after her cousin. But she was left alone and without
                        explanation. "The child loves him, adores him, that's
                        evident." Then she looked at the photograph in her hand. On the
                        card was printed: "Morrisons, Photographers, Hawford,
                        Indiana." Quick as a flash she understood, and was laughing almost
                        hysterically when Mr. Freddie Amsley was announced.
                    "Say that I'm not in, Lorette,but yes," she
                        slipped lazily from the hammock to a willow chair, "tell him to
                        come out here. No I'll not"
                    She was stopped by the appearance of Mr. Freddie Amsley himself, laughing and
                        apologizing.
                    "I know that you are not in," he said, "but,
                        hearing you so hilariously engaged out here, I stepped around. Now
                        don't  scold me; be gentle, for
                        I'm not happy."
                    "You don't look doleful," she observed
                        indifferently, motioning Lorette to hand him a chair.
                    "A cotton-bale fell on my toes," he said, "and it
                        hurt me."
                    "You've been losing?"
                    "Yes, a little on Januaryjust enough to spoil my temper,"
                    "So you've come to vent your ugliness upon me!"
                    "Yes," he drawled, sitting down; "yes,
                        you're always uppermost in my mind, for weal or for woe."
                    He was a slender, alert-looking young man with blue eyes, a high, hawk-nose,
                        blond side-whiskers, and short-cropped pale hair, which was parted in the
                        middle, He looked at Angelie with a shrewd, speculative gaze.
                    "I was jesting," he added. "I have at  last made my turn. I closed my deal this
                        morning sixty thousand ahead. Now scold me. Gold laughs at anger."
                    He posed himself with clever ease, and his countenance beamed with delight,
                        while he waited for her to speak. The maid, Lorette, glided away and was
                        heard a moment later singing a French ditty far back in the house.
                    "I cannot confine my scolding to you," said Angelie,
                        looking at the photograph; "I must include all men. Think of it!
                        one who had my picture has been impudent enough to return it."
                    "Give me his name and I'll call him out," said
                        Amsley. "He ought, by all the rules of compassion, to have sent it
                        to me. Who is he?"
                    "Not for the world would I tell you; I cannot let you be killed yet
                        a while. Who would take your place as"
                    
                    "As hopeless adorer," he interrupted a trifle bitterly,
                        despite his ready laugh, "and faithful friend." Then with
                        sudden passion he added: "You can't doubt my love,
                        Angelie, and you can't despise it. It is too faithful, too
                        true."
                    Angelie held up the photograph, regarding it reflectively.
                    "It was a curious little mistake and a ludicrous
                        counter-mistake," she inconse-quently remarked. "My
                        photograph went to him by accident, and by accident, evidently, he has
                        returned a copy of it."
                    Amsley bit his lip; but he had the gambler's nerve, and when Angelie
                        looked at him his face was not in the least a mirror of his inward feelings.
                        She had held him off so long that, hard as it was to bear, he was becoming
                        used to it. She was not a coquette, but she liked Amsley without loving him.
                        He had been good to her,  and she did not
                        credit his passion; she thought she could see to the bottom of it. At the
                        end of a meaningless and, to him, exasperating conversation, she sent him
                        away, as usual, bewildered and dissatisfied, but not hopeless. He had a
                        sense of humor, and he laughed and swore by turns as he walked down the
                        street. He was thinking what a fool he wasa very superior fool, to be sure;
                        and it occurred to him that he must either let go all hope of Angelie or hit
                        upon some plan of bringing her speedily to terms. Then he laughed at the
                        thought, for Angelie Banderet never accepted terms, she dictated them.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Sixteen
                    Breyten and Rayle dined together in New York without comforting each other to
                        any great depth, and separated upon perfunctory conditions, not expecting or
                        especially desiring to meet again. Rayle made a feeble effort to force
                        Breyten into discussing the subject of the money he had so mysteriously
                        received, a large part of which he had brought back with him from Paris; but
                        Breyten so cleverly baffled him that he almost concluded to abandon his
                        suspicion in that regard. Moreover, having discovered by chance that
                        Breyten's  wealth was practically
                        limitless, he naturally began to relax his anxiety in the matter, and was
                        willing enough to let the discussion pass.
                    Rayle had many inquiries to make about Rosalynde, all of which Breyten
                        answered unsatisfactorily, but yet fully enough in a way. He seemed not
                        interested. Rayle thought, and could not readily understand just what was
                        expected of him in response to a direct question. It seemed plain that he
                        had not been particularly impressed by Miss Banderet's charms, and
                        this gratified Rayle while it piqued him.
                    At the end of an hour both men felt the need of solitude, or at least of
                        escape from each other. Rayle had managed to find out that Rosalynde was
                        absent from Hawford when Breyten left there, and that she  was at Old Point Comfort the last he heard of
                        her.
                    "She may have returned to Hawford by this time; probably
                        has," said Breyten.
                    This was bordering upon indirect prevarication, albeit he really did not mean
                        it so.
                    "She wouldn't stay away long. I should think."
                        Rayle assented reflectively. "Anyway, I think I shall go to Hawford
                        first, and if she's not there I'll go where she
                        is."
                    He had been saying something about his great desire to surprise Rosalynde
                        with the remarkable change in his physique. The surgeon. he remarked, had
                        found his deformity a mere trifle, not in the least difficult to remove.
                    Breyten was mightily relieved when the moment for separation came and Rayle
                        announced that he had barely time to  reach
                        his train. They shook hands, said some insincere things meant to be
                        cordially friendly, shook hands again, and then turned their backs upon each
                        other, Rayle's brain Juminous with anticipations,
                        Breyten's heart wedged in his throat.
                    Breyten sat in his room at the Waldorf, a man quite out of employment and
                        unable to determine what his next step was to be. Millions of dollars at his
                        command, the whole world before him, opportunities unlimited, youth, health,
                        manly beauty, everything his save the one thing he desired, and that one
                        thing more to him than everything else in the universe. He jumped to his
                        feet and shook his fist at the wall in sheer rage when he thought how
                        wonderfully handsome Rayle was.
                    
                    "And to think I made him over, remodeled him, completed him, all for
                        this!"
                    Of course, such a storm soon blew over and left him somewhat relaxed and
                        ashamed. It was not in his nature to be sour or to harbor the devil long:
                        but now he found himself, even when the calm had fallen upon him, trying to
                        make room for certain questionable considerations. He got out
                        Angelie's photograph and looked at it as if bent upon wresting from
                        it the excuse for some desperate act. He tried to reconcile its serene and
                        unsympathetic gaze with the sweet and immediately friendly look with which
                        Rosalynde always met him during his long stay in her home. Over and over, as
                        the days passed by. he had his wrestle with the fiend that tried to cast him
                        over the line of temptation; but he stubbornly held his own, half suspecting
                        that in the end he would succumb.  It was a
                        hard struggle: yet all the time he was willing to be worsted by degrees. At
                        last he conquered wholly. Far down in some dim corner of his soul cowered
                        the shadowy, albeit quite distinguishable, consciousness of his intention to
                        go back to Rosalynde, despite Rayle and despite everything. He knew that his
                        resistance was a sham, therefore he made it with all his might and with a
                        stubbornness not in the least natural.
                    Indeed, the thing might have gone on a long while had not a little letter, a
                        mere note, come to him from Rosalynde in reply to his almost forgotten
                        epistle. Nothing could have surprised him more exquisitely or more deeply.
                        It was like a flash out of highest heaven.
                    He sat with the little sheet of delicate scribbling held firmly before him,
                        and read it over and over, trying, and at certain  moments almost succeeding, to draw from it just the least hint
                        of something comforting. 
                            
                                
                                    "NEW ORLEANS, LA.
                                    "DEAR MR. BREYTEN: It was good of you
                                            to return the picture so promptly. It was not mine. That
                                            was my reason for desiring its return at once. Your
                                            letter reached me here at my uncle's, where I
                                            am to spend the winter. I hope that this will not be
                                            delayed by numerous remailings, as yours was.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Sincerely.
                                        "ROSALYNDE BANDERET."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Of course, Breyten could not feel or even suspect the worry of spirit that
                        the writing of this letter had brought to Rosalynde. It might have been a
                        sort of comfort to him could he have known how she actually cried and lost a
                        whole night's sleep, trying to invent some form of composition  by which she could write freely to him. as a
                        sister to a brother, and yet save herself from every chance of
                        misconstruction by him and from her own conscience as well. She wrote a
                        halfscore of letters, some of them long, chatty, and bright, others somewhat
                        sympathetic and full of wholesome suggestions, while a number seemed to lien
                        upon reading them over, quite scattering in their nature and almost without
                        connected meaning. Why she finally preferred and sent the one we have just
                        read she probably never could have explained. When it was gone she would
                        have given almost anything to withdraw it.
                    Breyten actually at length succeeded in discovering in certain phrases of the
                        letter what he thought meant a great deal. "She as good as
                        says," he explained to himself, "that if the picture had
                        belonged  to her she would have let me keep
                        it. And then why should she particularly state that she is to be in New
                        Orleans all winter, if she did not want me to come? Moreover, the hope that
                        her letter would not be delayed shows that she will expect to hear from me
                        or see me again."
                    Such reasoning may have a flimsy appearance to you and me. occupying the most
                        judicial of attitudes; but to Breyten, in the confused mood so natural to
                        lovestruck and love-baffled youth, it was something to roll up and down in
                        the imagination with implicit confidence that nothing could disjoint its
                        logic. He slept over it one long night, a broken, unrestful sleep, and next
                        morning took the train for New Orleans.
                    In the meantime Rayle had reached Haw ford only to find that Rosalynde would
                        probably not return to the old home  at all,
                        and off he flew to Old Point Comfort where with some difficulty he found out
                        whither the Banderets had gone from there. He followed from place to place,
                        on and on, misled here, delayed yonder, as Breyten's letter had
                        been, his impatience increasing in proportion to the square of every
                        distance traveled, with the added increment of wasted days, delayed trains,
                        and wrong directions taken from careless hotel clerks. And so it happened
                        that he finally reached New Orleans in a dusty and forlorn state, but
                        glowing with the enthusiasm of the chase.
                    It was early in the evening when he arrived, and the streets were thronged
                        with sporting men come to witness a great prize fight.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Seventeen
                    At the Hotel Royale Breyten took a suite of rooms fairly luxurious in their
                        appointments, and made himself believe that happiness in some as yet
                        invisible form would soon be his. He was three days in advance of Rayle, but
                        he did not know this; in fact, he was too much busied with himself to think
                        about anybody else, save Rosalynde.
                    Of her he thought almost every moment. To-morrow he would call on her; yes,
                        to-morrow. His heart danced. But  when
                        to-morrow came, he faltered and dallied from hour to hour, and did not go.
                    Two, three days went by. The hotel was overflowing with athletic,
                        self-satisfied-looking men from New York, Boston, Chicago, St. Louis,
                        Denver, San Francisco, everywhere. Sporting slang and the terms of
                        pugilistic science filled the air. Every man was betting with another;
                        everybody was going to see the fight. Breyten, somewhat caught by the
                        prevailing enthusiasm, followed the crowd into a vast rude amphitheater and
                        sat down beside a handsome, dark man. It was Rayle. They looked at each
                        other as if about to fight, so intense and concentrated their gaze. A full
                        minute passed before either spoke; then Rayle laughed rather uneasily and
                        said:
                    "How are you? I scareely recognized you, not expecting to see
                        you."
                    
                    They both looked guilty, self-convicted, suspicious. Only for a little while,
                        however, for they quickly righted themselves.
                    "When did you reach here?" Rayle presently inquired.
                    "Three or four days ago," said Breyten, "And
                        you?"
                    "Oh, I've just got here. Came in on the early evening train
                        from Mobile."
                    Just then the gladiators strutted to the ring-center and shook hands; the
                        great fight was about to begin. Breyten fixed his eyes upon the brawny
                        figures now dancing and sparring with a certain colossal grace and ease of
                        movement. Rayle fidgeted in his seat and said.
                    "Have you seen Rosalynde?"
                    "What did you say?" Breyten demanded, without turning his
                        face.
                    "Have you seen Rosalynde?"
                    "No." almost gruffly.
                    
                    An exchange of blows in the ring brought from the crowd a wild roar of
                        cheers. Breyten felt like hitting Rayle straight from the shoulder for
                        speaking that dear name in such a place. He felt as if Rosalynde herself
                        were aware of his own participation in the brutal affair going on down
                        yonder in the little in closure.
                    "Then you don't know whether she's here or
                        not?" Rayle went on.
                    "No."
                    Breyten got up from his seat and stalked out of the amphitheater, his face
                        quite pale. He paid no attention to a big, red-faced fellow beside the aisle
                        when, in a tone of good-natured jeering, he called: "Hey, there! I
                        say, mister, does them bloody jabs onsettle yer stomach?"
                    Rayle made a motion as if to follow Breyten, but arrested it at once and
                        remained  in his seat until the fight ended
                        with what a flashily dressed man near him called a "right-hand
                        swing on the jaw"; then he went back to his hotel, feeling that he
                        had received poor recompense for a considerable loss of self-respect.
                    He felt his soul hang its head for shame, and he could not account for the
                        fact that he had gone to a prize fight instead of making his way immediately
                        to Rosalynde.
                    Early next morning Rayle was awake and thinking of Breyten. An impression
                        very unpleasant to realize was taking; shape in his mind. What, was Breyten
                        here for? Why had he behaved so strangely last night? Somehow Rosalynde came
                        into the problem, and a pang shot along with the thought of how foolishly he
                        had acted in not confiding to her everything connected with his experience
                             at the hospital in Paris. He now saw that
                        in his haste to rush home and surprise Rosalynde he had so disarranged their
                        correspondence that it might have appeared to her that he was neglecting
                        her. And her wanderings, moreover, had doubtless added to the difficulty,
                        for all his letters had been directed to her at Hawford. She might not now
                        be in New Orleans.
                    He had no mind to delay, however, and at the earliest permissible moment for
                        a call he went to Dr. Banderet's mansion and asked to see Miss
                        Banderet The servant admitted him and went away with his card, while he
                        stood in the twilight gloom of the ample drawing-room with black crow-foot
                        furniture carelessly ranged around, and dusky pictures peering at him from
                        the walls. It made him think of art and his abandoned ambition,  and then he wondered what Rosa-lynde would
                        say to the course he had pursued. And what would she think of the wonderful
                        betterment of his personal appearance?
                    Suddenly it occurred to him that possibly, after all, she might not care for
                        a changed and physically rectified Alfred Rayle. She had loved the cripple,
                        she had promised to be the wife of a maimed artist; but would she love and
                        wed the straight man who had repudiated the painter's dream and
                        acknowledged himself no genius? Strange that he had not thought of this
                        before! It now seemed an immensely formidable question.
                    After all, the straightening of his leg had not made him strong enough to
                        stand firmly, for he was trembling violently from head to foot. Then he
                        heard a light, quick step approaching the door.  There was a magic in the delicate pat-pat-pat upon the deep-piled carpet.
                        His heart gave a leap; a warm glow ran along his veins. In that second he
                        forgot the false note lately sounded in the song of his life. For, lightly
                        tripping through the doorway, came a tail. lissome form, the radiant face
                        smiling out of the twilight gloom of the place. He sprang to her and caught
                        her firmly in his arms.
                    "Rosalynde! Rosalynde!" he cried in a voice softly vibrant
                        with intense feeling.
                    He kissed her many times before she could find breath to say
                    "Please don'tI'm not Rosalyndelet me go sir. will
                        you!"
                    It was Angelie: but he could not understand; he thought Rosalynde was but
                        playing and pretending: so he kissed her again and again, holding her fast.
                        He was too much borne away on the moment's  impulse to notice the French timbre in her voice, nor did he
                        stop to reflect that Rosalynde could not possibly fight so atrociously and
                        cruelly.
                    "This is outrageous, sir!" she said, her voice quivering.
                        "Leave the house this minute!" She stamped her foot with
                        energy, and pointed towards the door with her gleaming hand.
                    Rayle's head swam, but he made a great effort to understand the
                        situation. There may have been a vague impression in his mind that he had
                        made some sort of ugly mistake.
                    "Rosalynde." he said, "whatwhat"
                    "Oh, but no, I am not Rosalynde." Angelie interrupted.
                        "You know that I am not. Can't you see?"
                    He was, indeed, trying hard to see, and the more he tried the plainer he saw
                        Rosalynde before him. I low beautiful she was,  too! His memory and imagination doubtless played him unfair tricks, for
                        the light was not strong enough to bring out her features distinctly. He
                        stood mute while she went and drew the curtain of a window and flung open
                        the blind. Her face was glowing when she turned towards him again, and the
                        radiance made its beauty shimmer indescribably.
                    She gave him a look evidently not meant to be friendly, a look which changed
                        almost instantly, and then a pallor superseded the blush in her cheeks.
                    Rayle, not yet rid of the impression that it was Rosalynde he saw, gazed at
                        her askance and abashed, his mind in a whirl.
                    The French in Angelie's blood leaped quickly to her aid at that
                        moment. She laughed and held out her hand.
                    "I am Angelie," she said, "Rosalynde's
                             cousin. You are Mr, Rayle, and
                        you've made yourself ridiculous; but I forgive you. A man never
                        fails to be disagreeable just when he means to be entertaining.
                    She laughed again when he took her hand and bent a mystified pair of dark
                        eyes upon her.
                    "You came to see Rosalynde, but she is away with my father on Bayou
                        Teche. I understand it all now. It was rather sidden, however, and quite
                        unexpected." She was speaking rapidly and with a charming air of
                        reconciliation. "If you are sure that you have yourself well under
                        control." she added, "you may sit down. Rosalynde has told
                        me about you. She will return next week."
                    Rayle began to look stupidly enlightened, and was smiling rather drily.
                    
                    
                        
                            "I am Angelie," she said, "and
                                you are Mr: Rayle and have made yourself ridiculous."
                        
                    
                    
                    "When did you arrive in New Orleans?" said Angelie.
                    "Yesterday evening."
                    "Why didn't you let Rosalynde know that you were coming?
                        She went away this morning, not more than an hour ago. It's too
                        bad."
                    "Where did you say she is gone?"
                    "Oh, it's indefinite. Father took her with him into the
                        Teche country. He has a roving business trip of some sort."
                    "I couldn't overtake them, then?"
                    "Most likely not," she said, and something in her voice
                        searched his heart; it was like a haunting bird-note in dreamy weather.
                        "It would be a tiresome and hopeless chase."
                    "It will be tiresome to wait," he said.
                    "You have waited many months; you can wait a week longer."
                    He looked at her sitting there by the  open
                        window, while the light through flickering orange foliage played upon her
                        sweet face and softly rounded form, and something in him stirred tenderly,
                        sending along his veins a glow of delight.
                    When he arose to go, Angelie's eyes measured his handsome figure;
                        then, with a pretty, reminiscent start, she suddenly said:
                    "But Rosalynde said that you were lame. You are not, are
                        you?"
                    "I was, but I am not," he said, looking at himself. My
                        trouble was as nothing in the hands of a good surgeon."
                    "How delightful!" she exclaimed, with her hands clasped
                        before her. "I am glad for you."
                    "You will come every day," she added. "It may
                        shorten your period of waiting if I prattle to you."
                    He was moving towards the door when  the
                        strains of a violin exquisitely played came from a remote part of the house,
                        and he involuntarily paused.
                    "It is mamma," Angelie said, coming near him. "She
                        is a wonderful artiste: nobody can play as she does. When you come again she
                        shall play for you. Why not this evening? You'll be lonely. Will
                        you?"
                    Rayle said that he would, and as he walked back to the hotel, somehow he felt
                        that lately the tune of his life had been breaking upon false notes.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Eighteen
                    In the morning following his peep at the prize fight Breyten was up early
                        with the purpose well in mind to call upon Rosalynde. Not another delay was
                        to be thought of. Assuring himself of this, he cast off a load of trouble
                        with somewhat his old-time ease; but in the reading-room of the hotel he
                        picked up a morning paper, yet damp from the press, and almost the first
                        paragraph was quite in the line of his thoughts. It stated that Dr.
                        Banderet, accompanied by his niece. Miss Rosalynde, of Indiana, had gone to
                        Bayou Teche for  a week. week! A year would
                        not have been more unsatisfactory. He read the paragraph over two or three
                        times, then crumpled the paper, flung it on a table, and went to the
                        clerk's desk to inquire how he could go to Bayou Teche by the
                        shortest and quickest route.
                    He would have but two hours and ten minutes to wait for a train, a fast
                        flyer, going to "the Teche," as the clerk called it. He
                        would reach New Iberia, a quaint old town in that region, sometime in the
                        afternoon. The Teche was a long bayou with plenty of steamboats on it. Many
                        tourists flocked there and had no end of a good time, the clerk volunteered
                        to explain.
                    Breyten broke off from him to look for a railway guide and snatch a hasty
                        breakfast. The excitement of pursuit was already tingling through him. He
                             made his few necessary preparations with
                        nervous haste, his fine face all aglow. He looked like a big boy making
                        frantic efforts to get ready for a holiday, and he was at the station half
                        an hour before time for the train to leave.
                    An excursion to Texas, in the interests of an agricultural emigration
                        company, had attracted a rather motley throng, in the midst of which Breyten
                        stalked about restlessly until his train drew up; then, after being jostled
                        and delayed at the door, he went into the rearmost parlorcar. The first face
                        he saw struck him with such surprise that he came near crying out.
                    Rosalynde was looking out of a window, and did not see Breyten as he passed,
                        though he hesitated a moment by the arm of her seat. Dr. Banderet, coming up
                        just then, politely elbowed him away and  sat
                        down beside his grand-niece, with a gold-headed cane between his knees.
                    Breyten's seat was some distance farther back. He flung himself into
                        it with the limp look of a very tired man. He could not see
                        Rosalynde's face, but a curve of her check showed under her simple
                        traveling-hat, and the dusky gleam of her hair was just as it used to be
                        when she sat reading to him in the old home in Hawford.
                    The train soon freed itself from the hindrances of the city and leaped forth
                        into the strange moss-hung forests and over the plashy swamps and marshes.
                    After a while Dr. Banderet went to the smoking-apartment, leaving Rosalynde
                        alone in her seat. Breyten gave himself no time for a change of purpose, but
                        rather precipitately carried it out. Rosalynde looked up and saw him bending
                             over her. She started; her face flushed,
                        then turned pale. She had been thinking of him when his voice startled her.
                        He was speaking when she lifted her eyes to him.
                    "Rosalynde," he said, with a fine, attractive smile,
                        "didn't you know that you couldn't get away from
                        me? Here I am."
                    "You surprised me," she said, making room for him by
                        removing Dr. Banderet's cane from where he had left it leaning
                        against the seat beside her; "but I am glad to see you. Where are
                        you going?"
                    "Wherever you go," he answered gravely. "You shall
                        never get out of my sight again if I can prevent itnever."
                    Suddenly all his great masculine force had returned to him: he felt that he
                        could spin the world like a top. He was a savage, ready to seize the
                        beautiful, half-shrinking maiden and rush away with her  to his lair in some impregnable cave. He must have given her a
                        powerful shock, for at the side of her throat the ivory-white skin was
                        palpitating to the current from her heart. They sat for a space in silence.
                        Presently he said:
                    "Rosalynde, it's useless to hesitate or deny. I love you
                        and you love me; you know it and I know it, and no power can change it or
                        hinder it."
                    He spoke in a subdued voice, but every word struck her ear with an electrical
                        power, and it seemed to her that the sounds, so thrilling to her, would
                        surely startle all the people in the car. Under the beautiful pallor of her
                        cheeks a fine peach-petal flush was barely visible; her lips were like
                        gerardias. As for him, he was indifferent to what the people in the car saw,
                        heard, or thought. She understood  this and
                        felt the need of coolness and tact.
                    "Don't, please," she said at first in a frightened
                        half-whisper. Then with a great effort she laughed and added: "But
                        tell me where you've been and what you've seen."
                    "I've been nowhere, have seen nothing, and have thought
                        only of you all the time."
                    "But a person who goes nowhere and sees nothing must be very stupid
                        and uninteresting," she said, with a poor little breaking voice,
                        which she was trying to make ring out freely and lightly in proof of a
                        jocund mood.
                    "It's no use, Rosalynde," he said; "you
                        feel it and might as well acknowledge it. Love is master."
                    Suddenly she bridled breathlessly. "You  shall not say this to me," she exclaimed. "I will not
                        listen. You forget; you"
                    Dr. Banderet appeared to claim his seat, or rather to stand mute with a bland
                        interrogative expression on his aristocratic face. Rosalynde did the first
                        thing she thought of, the moment being a crucial one. She introduced
                        Frederick Breyten to her great-uncle. Breyten arose, and the two men,
                        bobbing and staggering to the car's motion, shook hands.
                    "Keep the seat, sir, keep the seat," Dr. Banderet insisted.
                        "I will sit facing you, here. I like riding backward for a
                        change."
                    The arrangement comforted Rosalynde, and she enjoyed hearing Breyten, in
                        answer to inquiries from her uncle, tell a good deal about the Breytens of
                        Virginia, an historic family well known to Dr. Banderet.
                    
                    Dr. Banderet was a voluble talker, with much that was interesting to talk
                        about, and he gave Breyten little opportunity to speak to Rosalynde.
                    "I am very glad that you have no definite plan for seeing the Teche
                        region," he went on to say. "I shall claim the pleasure of
                        showing it to you. You will go with us? I have a little business, but my
                        niece and you will doubtless be able to entertain each other, being old
                        friends."
                    Breyten was delighted, but Rosalynde looked frightened and seemed on the
                        point of raising strenuous objection, although, in fact, her tongue was
                        refractory; she could not have spoken a word had life depended upon it.
                    The train swept on, and as the miles slipped behind, it seemed to Rosalynde
                             that she was leaving forever all that had
                        once been life to her and flying into some unknown region enmisted with
                        doubt and haunted by a formless, tender dread.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Nineteen
                    It would be interesting to observe Rayle's proceedings during the
                        timeit turned out to be twelve days instead of a weekthat Dr. Banderet and
                        Rosalynde were absent.
                    He called upon Angelie every day, and found her a most bewitching young
                        woman, who held up before him a kaleidoscope of dazzling fascinations.
                    He recognized her extreme difference from Rosalynde at the very moments when
                        he was most impressed with the twin-like resemblance between them. Perhaps
                             this confused him, or was it the weather?
                        For never had his eyes looked through such soft splendor of sunlight by day
                        and moonlight by night.
                    Of course he got acquainted with Mr. Freddie Amsleyvery well acquainted
                        indeedalmost at once. Amsley sniffed game in this sturdy, frank, confiding
                        youth from Indiana, who seemed to have money, and introduced him to some
                        good fellows at his club. Rayle found his new friends delightful and
                        prosperous young men, who lived at a pace that made him dizzy; they
                        fascinated him so that his imagination clothed them as princes of finance,
                        and before he could adjust his judgment to surroundings so engaging, they
                        had deftly, and with jocund show of splendid good-fellowship, relieved him
                        of every cent of his money. Then he realized that Freddie Amsley was no
                        angel  of good fortune, but rather a sleek
                        little demon, swift and sure in his work.
                    What help was there for him? He sat down quite limp in his room at the hotel
                        and looked aghast into the depths of his despair. Fortunately, he had paid
                        his bill for a fortnight in advance, a mere accident growing out of making
                        change. But what was before him? He had nothing to depend upon save the
                        pittance of income from his estate in Hawford.
                    With the thought of how his weakness and folly would affect Rosalynde came to
                        Rayle's mind the temptation to seek Breyten and ask him for advice,
                        if not for help in a more solid form. He slept, or rather tumbled all night
                        in bed, over the suggestion, and during the following forenoon went to the
                        Hotel Royale, only to find that Breyten had gone west eight days ago. The
                        obliging day-clerk further informed  him that
                        the gentleman would "be back in a few days."
                    "Where has he gone?" Rayle demanded, a sudden suspicion
                        opening darkly in his brain.
                    The clerk thought a moment, then shook his head.
                    "I'm not sure; he didn't leave any orders about
                        his mail. Seems to me, though, that he inquired about the Teche. Yes, I know
                        he did; seemed to be in a hurry: left on the morning train."
                    Rayle pressed his teeth together and stood thinking. His first impulse was to
                        follow in Breyten's tracks, but upon reflection his penniless
                        condition forbade the venture. He went out and walked aimlessly for a while,
                        then returned to his hotel and shut himself in his room. Presently he
                        recollected that he had promised  to dine with
                        Mrs. Banderet and her daughter.
                    Here our record must rely upon the meager facts in the following letter
                        written by Angelie in to Rosalynde, who received it at New Iberia after her
                        return there from a memorable voyage on the beautiful waters of Bayou Teche: 
                            
                                
                                    "DEAREST ROSE:
                                            I hope this letter will not fail to reach
                                            you; and oh, I'm so glad that I did not feel in
                                            the humor to go with you and papa, for I've
                                            been having such exciting experiences. How shall I tell
                                            you? It's like a novel. The very handsomest and
                                            most interesting young man that I ever saw has been
                                            coming to see me every day since your departure.
                                            He's dark and has features so nobly cut and so
                                            finely intelligent that it's a delight to look
                                            at him. He's a charming talker too; has just
                                            returned from Paris, where  he had no end of adventures. But, dear, he has no
                                            more actual knowledge of the, world than a boy of
                                            fifteen, though his opinion of himself is pretty
                                            extensive, as is the case with all men, you know. Still,
                                            that makes him delightful,his want of worldly wisdom, I
                                            mean,and he is so entertaining and so western;
                                            he's from Indiana too! He knew Uncle Lucien,
                                            and is acquainted with Mr. Frederick Breyten! Mamma and
                                            I have laid ourselves out to be agreeable to him, as
                                            much on your friend's account as anything else,
                                            for he is now waiting for Mr. Breyten to return; seems
                                            to be rather impatient to see him. I really think there
                                            is something mysterious about his coming here, something
                                            romantic rather, and I am so interested. He has great,
                                            big, dark, soft eyes, a poet's eyes,and such a
                                            voice! He sings to mamma's accompaniments with
                                                 perfectly divine
                                            richness and power, in a heavy tenor that I never heard
                                            the equal of anywhere. Freddie has called. I'll
                                            finish this after I've sent him away.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Freddie stayed but a little while,
                                            and he was disagreeable; he said some things about my
                                            new friend that made me angry, and I sent him off
                                            straightway. It was something that happened at the club,
                                            and he spoke of my friend as a `chump,'
                                            whatever that is. I am beginning to suspect Fred Amsley
                                            of doing downright mean things. He even hinted that my
                                            friend is lacking in good common sense, and intimated
                                            that he had shown himself a very easy victim to his own
                                            foolish egotism. I did not quite understand, but
                                            Fred's manner was disagreeable, and we parted
                                            angry,at least I was. Another caller; it's my
                                            new friend.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Oh, but now I have something to tell
                                                 you! My handsome
                                            friend from Indiana has just gone, after the strangest
                                            interview I ever had with any person in all my life.
                                            I'm all nervous, and I do not know how to tell
                                            you what I have been experiencing. It is so unusual, so
                                            romantic, so pathetic, and so,I almost said funny, but
                                            it isn't that. He has lost every cent of his
                                            money and doesn't know what to do. It was Fred
                                            Amsley that caused it: he was the little villain. My
                                            suspicions were correct: he cunningly led my friend into
                                            a gambling scheme of some sort, and he was robbed. I
                                            will never speak to Fred Amsley again. I didn't
                                            know that he was a gambler.
                                    
                                    
                                        "But I will tell you everything when
                                            you come home. It's quite impossible to put the
                                            whole thing in a little letter. Mamma and I have been
                                            talking it over. We feel that it is our duty to do
                                            something  but what?
                                            Isn't it picturesque? Think of me with a
                                            penniless and despairing stranger on my hands, and he as
                                            handsome as Apollo and as interesting as a hero in a
                                            novel!
                                    
                                    
                                        "A thousand kisses from your devoted
                                            cousin
                                    
                                    
                                        ANGELIE."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The reader will understand that Angelie had a double reason for not
                        mentioning Rayle's name in her letter. In the first place, he had
                        told her that he wished to surprise Rosalynde, and then she liked the spice
                        of mystery that she was able to throw into her account; it gratified her
                        taste for romance. Moreover, she vaguely felt that in some way it was better
                        to let Rayle explain, if he wished, the circumstances by which he had been
                        influenced, although she really did not clearly comprehend her own motive in
                        the matter. Rayle fascinated her more than 
                        she realized, and her sympathy took deep hold in considering his unfortunate
                        folly and the heartless conduct of Amsley.
                    Angelie was peculiarly wrought upon by a consideration of Rayle's
                        trouble. It seemed to her monstrous that a man so very handsome, so charming
                        as a talker, so gifted as a singer, and withal so evidently free from the
                        real vices of manhood, should have fallen into a vulgar error inducing such
                        keen and humiliating distress. From what Rayle had told her she imagined
                        that Breyten was his only hope; and the thought of Breyten brought to mind
                        the great probability, almost certainty, that he had gone in pursuit of
                        Rosalynde. Then she smiled and wondered if Rosalynde would be glad to see
                        him. She felt some sort of comfort in the suggestion that Breyten might be
                        able to win her away from Rayle, being a bold 
                        and audacious lover, evidently not to be set aside with a mere wave of the
                        hand. It was a romantic subject for her imagination to play with, at all
                        events.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Twenty
                    Bayou Teche doubtless has had many a romance upon its slow, languid water,
                        and in the picturesque houses that peep forth from the groves and gardens
                        along its banks, but the flower of them allthe poem of them all, it would be
                        better to saywas that which Breyten and Rosalynde made for themselves while
                        on board a little steamboat, a lazy but tireless craft running far up the
                        great lagoon and touching with its enterprising nose every landing on either
                        shore.
                    Dr. Banderet, having lived most of his  life in
                        the South, had the Southerner's quick sense of what is due to a
                        gentleman who falls in the way of one's hospitality or seems a good
                        target for one's generosities of any sort. He knew
                        Breyten's family, had known his father, and now, well impressed
                        with the young man himself, he set no limit to kindness and courtesy. His
                        business at New Iberia had to be postponed for a few days, and as time was
                        heavy he bethought him of the voyage up the Techeit would be a revelation to
                        Rosalynde, and perhaps not unattractive to Breyten. So it was arranged; a
                        little steamer came just at the nick of time; to reach it was no great
                        trouble.
                    The old doctor was in high spirits; Breyten had charmed him; for Breyten was
                        a good listener, the doctor an enthusiastic raconteur, and
                        what more was needed?
                    
                    The only drawback was that Breyten's mind wandered from the
                        entertainment so generously expended upon him to Rosalynde, sitting by the
                        vessel's rail a little distance farther forward. He wanted to join
                        her; as yet he had not been able to converse with her alone, and his heart
                        was impatient, his ears longed for her voice, his eyes could not be kept
                        from gazing at her profile while she looked away over the smooth water.
                    Breyten, after the most diligent impatience, finally worked himself clear of
                        Dr. Banderet's control, and turned his chair so as to face
                        Rosalynde.
                    "Now," he said, with the air of one who dares fate,
                        "we will give any intruder a cold stare of repulse. I am in no
                        humor for interruptions."
                    "It is a beautiful panorama," she said, "a sort of
                        dream-shadow and dream-sheen  vision. I was
                        here once before, long, long, ago, when I was a little child. It is just the
                        same, so far as I can see, not a trace of change. I remember those
                        long-necked, slow-winged birds." She pointed towards some herons,
                        laboring through the drowsy air. "I have dreamed of these dusky
                        shore-groves and those wide fields of cane yonder hundreds of times. They
                        made a great impression upon my childish mind, and I have always desired to
                        come and see them again."
                    "But you never dreamed that I was to be with you, did you?"
                    "No," she said with a little laugh.
                    "Well, I was to be, and here I am. You do not seem surprised; you do
                        not object."
                    "Why should I?"
                    "You shouldn't: it's in accord with divinely
                        ordered destiny."
                    
                    
                        " Now," he said, "we will give
                                any intruder a cold stare of repulse."
                    
                    
                    "How do you know that?"
                    "How do I know that I am here, and that you are here? Do you believe
                        that two people like you and me are mere playthings of chance? Or do you
                        imagine that God crossed the lines of our lives that He might tantalize us?
                        What are we here for? Why did I find you under the bridge when the storm
                        made day like midnight?"
                    "I don't know," she faltered; then added with a
                        firmer tone: "People have to meet. The highways are for
                        all."
                    "True; but our meeting opened a new life to both of us; you know it.
                        Look back beyond that meeting. Is life back there what it is on this side?
                        We have blended souls, we have enlarged each other's vision,
                        broadened each other's capacity to enjoy, to comprehend, to aspire.
                        I did not know life until you opened its 
                        gate; before that I was but a joy-dreamer, with the Greek poets for my
                        cup-fillers and physical nature for my guide. Now I feel something belter,
                        purer, stronger. I love, and I feel the imperious right to be
                        loved."
                    Rosalynde had been struggling with a sense of duty during this impassioned
                        speech, which she felt overwhelming her and lifting tears towards her eyes.
                        She knew that she must cast off with a firm hand what, in spite of all she
                        could do, seemed to fill a thousand dry and thirsty wells of her soul.
                    It was impossible for her not to realize what she was called upon to
                        consider. There was something in the situation deliciously challenging, a
                        something which, forbidden by her betrothal to Rayle, yet demanded the
                        tendcrest and most considerate treatment. The factsshe could not  deny that they were factstumbled upon her
                        attention by Breyten just now were not new to her; she had revolved them
                        innumerable times since they parted at Hawford. Not that she gave them the
                        meaning that he insisted upon. She gave them no meaning; they simply haunted
                        her with a strange composite effect at once infinitely saddening and
                        indescribably sweet.
                    "What are you thinking?" Breyten gently demanded, after a
                        rather long pause, during which a beautiful landscape had opened on one bank
                        of the bayou.
                    "How pastoral and peaceful! I remember that house." She
                        indicated a venerable mansion under enormous live-oak trees.
                    The boat, as if attracted by the cool shade, the wide verandas, and the
                        idyllic  agricultural scene in the rear,
                        turned its prow towards the landing at the place.
                    "I should love to live there, a long, uneventful, dreamy
                        life," Rosalynde added. "What could be more reposeful,
                        more like what poets describe when they want to make you discontented with
                        your lot?"
                    "I'll buy it for you, if you'll live there with
                        me," he said, with the eagerness of a boy who begs for something
                        that has been denied him. "I'll buy anything, everything
                        you want,a palace. You have but to ask."
                    Her face paled: she turned upon him eyes full of earnest beseeching.
                    "Do not talk like that, I beg of you," she said, gently but
                        firmly. "You forget."
                    "No. I do not forget; I remember clearly," he insisted;
                        "but what of it? Rosalynde"
                    
                    She stopped him with a gesture and an air of absolute command. It was a
                        revelation of that in her character which theretofore had been veiled from
                        him.
                    "I am Alfred Rayle's promised wife," she said.
                        "There is nothing to add to the simple statement. You know it as
                        well as I."
                    In that moment, at those words, his heart sank, but he fought hard and held
                        his head high. Defeat seemed impossible. He must not force fate; time and
                        the weight of events might yet win for him all that now seemed impossible,
                        for there was no doubting the immovable, albeit hauntingly gentle and
                        inscrutable, expression in her face. And yet he felt a deep, heart-pervading
                        intimation from her eyes and from the undertones of her voice that she was
                        repressing and trying to smother what she really had let kindle in her soul
                             for him. But she had put him to the
                        crucial test.
                    "If you really love Alfred Rayle and do not love me, that is the
                        end," he said. "I followed you here not to try to change
                        your love, but to prove it. My love for you could not let me believe that
                        you did not love me. I can not realize it now; but if it is so, if you love
                        Rayle and not me, it is my load, and I must carry it."
                    His face shone white through the bronze: there was a look in his splendid
                        eyes that tortured every string of her heart.
                    He rose and stood for a moment in silence. Far away somewhere a boat-horn
                        sounded a long, plaintive strain.
                    "I see that I have done wrong," he said. "Forgive
                        me: lay it to my ignorance. I never loved before; it has conquered me
                        wholly."
                    
                    She sat silent, and he added in a tone that labored with a tremendous reserve
                        of feeling:
                    "If this is the end, there is no more life for me; but I will not
                        annoy you. I" He passed his hand over his forehead and looked
                        bewildered. Then, rallying, he tried to smile in his old joyous way, and
                        said: "I believe I am not wella trifle dizzy. It's
                        nothing; it will pass." But he dropped rather heavily into his
                        chair, as a very tired man might have done. But he mastered himself before
                        Rosalynde could fairly understand, and now he had to assume a cheerful mood,
                        for Dr. Banderet came to join them and had thought of another excellent
                        story.
                    The voyage on the Teche lasted two days without further incident worth
                        recording. Rosalynde and Breyten conversed 
                        brokenly, meeting and separating capriciously; Dr. Banderet gradually
                        completed his cycle of stories and cheerfully set out on the second round.
                        At last it was all over, and the little party again set foot in the hotel at
                        New Iberia. Next morning Dr. Banderet's business claimed him, and
                        Rosalynde was whisked away by a matronly friend, whose home on the outskirts
                        of the town looked old enough and quaint enough to date back to the days of
                        French supremacy.
                    Dreyten lingered and waited. Why did he linger? What was he waiting for?
                        There was no reason; there was no expectation. Still, he lingered and
                        waited, a mere lounger at the hotel.
                    When Dr. Banderet's affairs were at last arranged to his liking, he
                        brought Rosalynde back to the hotel, and the three dined together upon
                        delicious French  dishes and notably excellent
                        French wines. Of course, some stories by the doctor added pleasantness to
                        the occasion.
                    Next morning, while they were making ready to take the return train to New
                        Orleans, Angelie's letter arrived. Dr. Banderet was out attending
                        to some final details, and Breyten came into the little parlor just as
                        Rosalynde made an end of reading her cousin's romantic prattle. Her
                        face was lit with excitement when she looked up at him.
                    "You did not tell me that Alfredthat Mr. Rayle was in New
                        Orleans," she said with reproachful, almost bitter, emphasis.
                    "You have a letter?" he inquired, meaning one from Rayle.
                    "Yes," she said.
                    "Then he has told you, and I am not bound to keep his secret longer.
                        I could  not tell you, because he made me
                        promise not to. I have felt the wrong of it, but I had promised him. Forgive
                        me. I am sorry."
                    She stood a moment, hesitating; then she handed Breyten the letter.
                    "Read it," she said, "and tell me what it
                        means."
                    While his glance ran over the clear, elegant, yet girlish writing. Rosalynde
                        watched him in a state of breathless suspense. She knew and she did not know
                        what the worst meaning of Angelie's tantalizing obscurity might be,
                        and a great sense of impending disaster bore upon her.
                    "Humph!" muttered Breyten, more to himself than to her.
                        "What a fool! How absurd!" Then he handed the letter back
                        to her.
                    A wave of his old impulsive generosity  swept
                        through him. He looked into her troubled eyes, and with a cheerful smile
                        said: "It's nothing serious. I'll straighten it
                        all out. Don't worry in the least about it."
                    He sat down at a table and drew forth pen and a little writing pad.
                    "I know what to do," he added, and laughed.
                    What he wrote was a telegraphic message in eipher to his agent in New York.
                    "Send by wire to Alfred Rayle order for five thousand
                            dollars through New Orleans National Bank. Utmost despatch. Absolute
                            secrecy. Notify Rayle at Hotel."
                    He went out and sent away the message, returning in ten minutes. She was
                        waiting for him, but she appeared not in the least reassured. A new trouble
                        had been added to her eyes during his absence,  for she had been rapidly thinking over many things in the past and
                        coupling them with what had just transpired. She advanced a step to meet him
                        and said: "What have you been doing? You have sent him money. It is
                        all wrong. You "
                    "Wait," he gently interrupted; "do not make a
                        hasty judgment; it is never safe. It will be time to make up your mind when
                        everything is clear to your vision after all excitement has
                        passed."
                    He looked to her just as when he stood on the bridge that first day, smiling
                        at her in the light that followed the storm. Somehow his words and his
                        manner tempered her distress. She felt imperiously compelled to rely upon
                        him. He seemed able to do anything great that he desired to do.
                    Dr. Banderet came in with a bustling  air. They
                        would have to make haste or lose the train.
                    "Good-by, then," said Breyten, offering Rosalynde his hand.
                        "I am going on to Mexico. Our voyage was an experience that I shall
                        never forget. I say good-by with a pang."
                    She gave him her hand.
                    "Why, my dear sir," exclaimed Dr. Banderet,"my
                        dear sir, this is sudden; we had counted upon your returning with
                        us."
                    "Yes, it is rather sudden, a sort of surprise to myself; but I am a
                        creature of whims. I have thought of Mexico for a long while, and now that I
                        seem near its border, the impulse comes upon me to go. But you will miss
                        your train through being kind to me. Good-by, Miss Banderet; good-by,
                        doctor."
                    "You won't be always in Mexico," said  Dr. Banderet, already hurrying Rosalynde
                        away, and speaking cordially back over his shoulder.
                        "You'll be in New Orleans on your return trip. Come right
                        to my house."
                    When Rosalynde turned at the door and gave Breyten a quick glance, he thought
                        he saw tears shining in her eyes.
                
                
                
                    Chapter Twenty One
                    Breyten went to Mexico and wandered somewhat perfunctorily for a space of
                        five or six months in a mood not conducive to perfect comfort.
                    He kept Angelie's photograph,he could not separate it from his dream
                        of Rosalynde.and one seeing him gazing upon it would have suspected him of
                        praying to it; but sentimental as all this may seem, he lost no sleep, kept
                        a great appetite, flourished physically, and read the home newspapers
                        whenever he could get hold of them.
                    
                    He was on the point of embarking at Vera Cruz for Havre when the item of news
                        for which he seemed to have been long looking fell under his eyes. It was in
                        a New Orleans Sunday paper, just five weeks old:
                    "Mr. Alfred Rayle and his wife have gone to Hawford, Indiana, for a
                        month's visit."
                    Breyten read the item over and over, but somehow he could not realize its
                        fact. Presently he flung down the paper with an impatient gesture, and
                        laughed as one does who is proof against the little annoyances that printed
                        matter occasionally swarms with.
                    "I've looked for it diligently enough, expected it
                        confidently enough, and prepared myself for it carefully enough,"
                        he reflected, "so that it means nothingabsolutely  nothingto me, now that I've found
                        it."
                    Breyten went bowling across the seas to France. There he made persistent
                        efforts to regain his lost way of life. First he tried interesting himself
                        in books, art, the theaters, and the streets of Paris; then he ran up to
                        Switzerland and gave his muscles free play among the glaciers. It was but
                        mechanical exercise, not recreation; the old idyllic joy would not return.
                        He began to wonder how he had ever cared so much for what now seemed idle
                        and empty, a mere vagrant's mood, of which a man ought to be
                        ashamed. But what was worth while, then?
                    He lingered here and yonder on his slow way. He spent the winter in the
                        Riviera, dreaming of the Teche, knowing all the time that sooner or later he
                        was going  back to Hawford on a bicycle by way
                        of the bridge where he had first met Rosalynde. And promptly, early in May,
                        he was there, but the old wooden span had been torn away to give place to a
                        patent one of iron.
                    It was growing dusk when he reached the hotel at Hawford.
                    "Hello!" said the smiling, fat clerk, instantly recognizing
                        him, "glad to see you, Mr. Breyten. You can have the same rooms.
                        You are looking fine. Been growing, haven't you?"
                    Breyten generalized vaguely and genially in response to this unexpected
                        warmth. He would have liked to ask innumerable questions, all tending to one
                        objectRosalynde. For, in spite of what he knew to the contrary, he could
                        think of her only as living yonder in the old gray home among the trees.
                        Presently  he would go up there and see her;
                        she would be walking in the broad way between the gate and the house, and an
                        absurd little dog with a ribbon around its neck would be trotting along
                        ahead of her.
                    "When you got jammed up so on your bicycle that time. I never
                        expected that I'd see you flying around again. You're
                        entirely well of it?"
                    "Yes, thank you, quite well."
                    "The young lady came out mighty lucky."
                    "And how is she?" Breyten could not control his desire. The
                        question was asked automatically.
                    "Don't know; well, I guess. The family have just come up
                        from New Orleans; going to spend the summer here. I haven't seen
                        any of 'em yet."
                    Breyten turned abruptly and followed  the
                        servant, who led the way to his room. He walked briskly and appeared to be
                        alert, self-contented, happy; but he felt heavy and listless; he could not
                        think clearly, and every fiber of his body seemed strained to the point of
                        lesion.
                    He dined heartily, for his heavy exercise awheel had given him a sharp
                        appetite, though he was not tired. At eight of the Hawford Court House
                        steeple clock he went out into the moonlight night.
                    He reflected: "I shall go for a look at the house where I lay so
                        long. And it seems but yesterday, yet like a century too, since she read to
                        me and I gazed at her through half-closed eyes. Just a look at the old
                        house, and then"
                    In front of the Banderet homestead Breyten stood up firmly, straight and
                        tall, while a figure moved down the walk 
                        towards him; a gray, slender, graceful form, leading a little child.
                    One glance assured him; it was Rosalynde. Suddenly he felt perfectly master
                        of himself. There was but one thing to do, and he was glad and eager to do
                        it. Of course, he had no time to reason it out with himself, but the gist of
                        it was: "Here she comes. It is Mrs. Rayle now, a happy little wife.
                        Clearly all that I've got to do is to shake hands with her, be glad
                        to see her, be invited in, talk with Rayle, and go away."
                    When Breyten opened the gate the figure was less than ten paces distant, and
                        at the click of the latch it stopped quite still. With quick steps he
                        approached and held out his hand.
                    "Do you forgive a friend, Mrs. Rayle, the liberty of taking you
                        unawares?" His voice was not so steady, after all.
                    
                    "Mr. Breyten!"
                    "Mrs. Rayle."
                    "You are mistaken. Mrs. Rayle is away; but I am glad to see
                        you."
                    She took his hand: he stood looking hard at her. Surely it was Rosalynde,
                        pale, radiant, glad, gazing up into his questioning eyes.
                    The little child, daughter of a neighbor, slipped aside and ran away.
                    Breyten put on a great spurt of shrewdness; the flash of comprehensive
                        retrospect that comes to a drowning man was giving him full explanation of
                        his mistake. He recollected that the photograph was of Rosalynde's
                        cousin. Miss Angelie Banderet To be sure.
                    He laughed and said:
                    "The moonlight deceived me: I thought you were RosalyndeMrs.
                        Ravle."
                    
                    "Come into the house with me, where the light is better,"
                        she said.
                    "You are Miss Angelie Banderet?"
                    "No, I am Rosalynde."
                    Me stopped as if frozen.
                    "Thenthen," he stammered, "then you are Mrs.
                        Rayle."
                    "No. I am Rosalynde Banderet." There was a decided accent
                        of disapproval, as well as denial, in her voice. "I do not like the
                        humor of what you say." She made a gesture of disappointment, and
                        stood as if waiting for him to make amends.
                    "RosalyndeRosalyndewhat are you saying to me? What do you
                        mean?"
                    Something behind his faltering words indicated whole volumes of inexpressible
                        suspense, doubt, hope, trembling expectation.
                    "I do not understand you," she said,  visibly quivering from head to foot, for she was beginning to
                        suspect the truth. He did not comprehend that it was Angelie who became Mrs.
                        Rayle.
                    As for him, he caught the truth at that moment, as if it had been revealed by
                        a divine light. He saw a flash of electrical splendor, like that away back
                        yonder under the old bridge on the day he first saw her.
                    "You did not marry Rayle," he cried in a low, glad voice.
                        "Rosalynde! Rosalynde! You did notdid you?"
                    "No," she said, from somewhere deep in his arms. It was
                        like the cry of a bird reveling in foliage so densely rich that the luxury
                        was well-nigh overpowering.
                    "No," he repeated after her; "no, no!"
                    The spring wind was merry in the young leaves overhead. From the house a
                        violin's notes trembled forth, deliciously 
                        
                            " No," she said from somewhere deep in
                                    his arms
                            
                        
                         tender and sweet; it was Mrs. Banderet
                        playing the doctor's favorite lyric. Then a small object came
                        ambling down the walk and frisked and barked as if its whole life depended
                        upon noise and motion; but it received not the slightest regard; its
                        mistress did not even see it or hear it.
                    We can go no further. Marriage is not the end of love, but it is the true end
                        of a love-story; and this is only a lovestory.
                
            
        
    
