
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Cowardice Court: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2353
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    COWARDICE COURT
                
                BY
                        GEORGE BARR Mc CUTCHEON
                    
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY HARRISON FISHER AND DECORATIONS BY
                    THEODORE B HAPGOOD
                
                    NEW YORK
                    1906
                    DODD MEAD & COMPANY
                
            
            
            
                
                    Copyright, 1906
                     BY DODD, MEAD,
                    AND COMPANY
                
                Published March, 1906
                THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U. S. A.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. IN WHICH A YOUNG MAN TRESPASSES
                        1
                        
                    II. IN WHICH A YOUNG WOMAN TRESPASSES
                        21
                        
                    III. IN WHICH A DOG TRESPASSES
                        42
                        
                    IV. IN WHICH THE TRUTH TRESPASSES
                        64
                        
                    V. IN WHICH DAN
                            CUPID TRESPASSES
                        87
                        
                    VI. IN WHICH A GHOST TRESPASSES
                        109
                        
                    VII. IN WHICH THE AUTHOR TRESPASSES
                        121
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Frontispiece 
                    "'So you are putting me off your place? Oh, how
                        lovely!'" [Page 34] 30
                        
                    "She was her own mistress and privileged to ride as often as she
                        pleased" [Page 42] 68
                        
                    "'Poor old Bonaparte!' was all he said in
                        reply" [Page 61] 96
                        
                    "'Good heaven, Randolph, go to him! He is
                        hurt'" [Page 135] 122
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                COWARDICE COURT
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    IN WHICH A YOUNG MAN TRESPASSES
                    "HE'S just an infernal dude, your lordship, and
                        I'll throw him in the river if he says a word too much."
                    "He has already said too much, Tompkins, confound him,
                        don't you know."
                    "Then I 'm to throw him in whether he says anything or not,
                        sir?"
                    "Have you seen him?"
                    "No, your lordship, but James has. James says he wears a red coat
                        and"
                    "Never mind, Tompkins. He has no right to fish on this side of that
                        log. The insufferable ass may own the land on the opposite side, but,
                        confound his impertinence, I own it on this side."
                    
                    This concluding assertion of the usually placid but now irate Lord Bazelhurst
                        was not quite as momentous as it sounded. As a matter of fact, the title to
                        the land was vested entirely in his young American wife; his sole
                        possession, according to report, being a title much less substantial but a
                        great deal more picturesque than the large, much-handled piece of paper down
                        in the safety deposit vault lying close and crumpled among a million sordid,
                        homely little slips called coupons.
                    It requires no great stretch of imagination to understand that Lord
                        Bazelhurst had an undesirable neighbour. That neighbour was young Mr.
                        ShawRandolph Shaw, heir to the Randolph fortune. It may be fair to state
                        that Mr. Shaw also considered himself to be possessed of an odious
                        neighbour. In other words, although neither had seen the other, there was a
                        feud between the owners of the two estates that had all the earmarks of an
                        ancient romance.
                    Lady Bazelhurst was the daughter of a New York millionaire; she was young,
                        beautiful, and arrogant. Nature gave her youth and beauty; marriage gave her
                        the remaining quality. Was she not Lady Bazelhurst? What odds if Lord
                        Bazelhurst happened to  be a middle-aged,
                        addle-pated ass? So much the better. Bazelhurst castle and the Bazelhurst
                        estates (heavily encumbered before her father came to the rescue) were among
                        the oldest and most coveted in the English market. Her mother noted, with
                        unctuous joy, that the present Lady Bazelhurst in babyhood had extreme
                        difficulty in mastering the eighth letter of the alphabet, certainly a most
                        flattering sign of natal superiority, notwithstanding the fact that her
                        father was plain old John Banks (deceased), formerly of Jersey City, more
                        latterly of Wall street and St. Thomas's.
                    Bazelhurst was a great catch, but Banks was a good name to conjure with, so
                        he capitulated with a willingness that savoured somewhat of suspended
                        animation (so fearful was he that he might do something to disturb the dream
                        before it came true). That was two years ago. With exquisite irony, Lady
                        Bazelhurst decided to have a country-place in America. Her agents discovered
                        a glorious section of woodland in the Adirondacks, teeming with trout
                        streams, game haunts, unparalleled scenery; her ladyship instructed them to
                        buy without delay. It was just here that young Mr. Shaw came into
                        prominence.
                    
                    His grandfather had left him a fortune and he was looking about for ways in
                        which to spend a portion of it. College, travel, and society having palled
                        on him, he hied himself into the big hills west of Lake Champlain, searching
                        for beauty, solitude, and life as he imagined it should be lived. He found
                        and bought five hundred acres of the most beautiful bit of wilderness in the
                        mountains.
                    The same streams coursed through his hills and dales that ran through those
                        of Lady Bazelhurst, the only distinction being that his portion was the more
                        desirable. When her ladyship's agents came leisurely up to close
                        their deal, they discovered that Mr. Shaw had snatched up this choice five
                        hundred acres of the original tract intended for their client. At least one
                        thousand acres were left for the young lady, but she was petulant enough to
                        covet all of it.
                    Overtures were made to Mr. Shaw, but he would not sell. He was preparing to
                        erect a handsome country-place, and he did not want to alter his plans.
                        Courteously at first, then somewhat scathingly he declined to discuss the
                        proposition with her agents. After two months of preassure of the most
                        tiresome persistency, he lost his temper and 
                        sent a message to his inquisitors that suddenly terminated all negotiations.
                        Afterwards, when he learned that their client was a lady, he wrote a
                        conditional note of apology, but, if he expected a response, he was
                        disappointed. A year went by, and now, with the beginning of this narrative,
                        two newly completed country homes glowered at each other from separate
                        hillsides, one envious and spiteful, the other defiant and a bit satirical.
                    Bazelhurst Villa looks across the valley and sees Shaw's Cottage
                        commanding the most beautiful view in the hills; the very eaves of her
                        ladyship's house seem to have wrinkled into a constant scowl of
                        annoyance. Shaw's long, low cottage seems to smile back with
                        tantalizing security, serene in its more lofty altitude, in its more
                        gorgeous raiment of nature. The brooks laugh with the glitter of trout, the
                        trees chuckle with the flight of birds, the hillsides frolic in their
                        abundance of game, but the acres are growling like dogs of war.
                        "Love thy neighbour as thyself" is not printed on the
                        boards that line the borders of the two estates. In bold black letters the
                        sign-boards laconically say: "No trespassing on these grounds. Keep
                        off!"
                    
                    "Yes, I fancy you 'd better put him off the place if he
                        comes down here again to fish, Tompkins," said his lordship, in
                        conclusion. Then he touched whip to his horse and bobbed off through the
                        shady lane in a most painfully upright fashion, his thin legs sticking
                        straight out, his breath coming in agonized little jerks with each
                        succeeding return of his person to the saddle.
                    "By Jove, Evelyn, it 's most annoying about that confounded
                        Shaw chap," he remarked to his wife as he mounted the broad steps
                        leading to the gallery half an hour later, walking with the primness which
                        suggests pain. Lady Bazelhurst looked up from her book, her fine
                        aristocratic young face clouding with ready belligerence.
                    "What has he done, Cecil dear?"
                    "Been fishing on our property again, that 's all. Tompkins
                        says he laughed at him when he told him to get off. I say, do you know, I
                        think I 'll have to adopt rough methods with that chap. Hang it
                        all, what right has he to catch our fish?"
                    "Oh, how I hate that man!" exclaimed her ladyship
                        petulantly.
                    "But I 've given Tompkins final instructions."
                    
                    "And what are they?"
                    "To throw him in the river next time."
                    "Oh, if he only could!" rapturously.
                    "Could? My dear, Tompkins is an American. He can
                        handle these chaps in their own way. At any rate, I told Tompkins if his
                        nerve failed him at the last minute to come and notify me. I
                            'll attend to this confounded popinjay!"
                    "Good for you, Cecil!" called out another young woman from
                        the broad hammock in which she had been dawdling with half-alert ears
                        through the foregoing conversation.
                    "Spoken like a true Briton. What is this popinjay like?"
                    "Hullo, sister. Hang it all, what's he like? He's
                        like an ass, that's all. I 've never seen him, but if I
                        'm ever called upon tobut you don't care to listen to
                        details. You remember the big log that lies out in the river up at the bend?
                        Well, it marks the property line. One half of its stump belongs to the Shaw
                        man, the other half to mto us, Evelyn. He shan't fish below that
                        logno, sir!" His lordship glared fiercely through his monocle in
                        the direction of the far-away log, his watery blue eyes blinking as
                        malevolently as possible, his  long,
                        aristocratic nose wrinkling at its base in fine disdain. His five feet four
                        of stature quivered with illy-subdued emotion, but whether it was rage or
                        the sudden recollection of the dog-trot through the woods, it is beyond me
                        to suggest.
                    "But suppose our fish venture into his waters, Cecil; what then? Is
                        n't that trespass?" demanded the Honourable Penelope
                        Drake, youngest and most cherished sister of his lordship.
                    "Now, don't be silly, Pen," cried her
                        sister-in-law. "Of course we can't regulate the
                        fish."
                    "But I daresay his fish will come below the log, so what's
                        the odds?" said his lordship quickly. "A trout's
                        a lawless brute at best."
                    "Is he big?" asked the Honourable Penelope lazily.
                    "They vary, my dear girl."
                    "I mean Mr. Shaw."
                    "Oh, I thought you meant thebut I don't know. What
                        difference does that make? Big or little, he has to stay off my
                        grounds." Was it a look of pride that his tall young wife bestowed
                        upon him as he drew himself proudly erect or was it akin to  pity? At any rate, her gay young American head
                        was inches above his own when she arose and suggested that they go inside
                        and prepare for the housing of the guests who were to come over from the
                        evening train.
                    "The drag has gone over to the station, Cecil, and it should be here
                        by seven o'clock."
                    "Confound his impudence, I'll show him," grumbled
                        his lordship as he followed her, stiff-legged, toward the door.
                    "What's up, Cecil, with your legs?" called his
                        sister. "Are you getting old?" This suggestion always
                        irritated him.
                    "Old? Silly question. You know how old I am. No; it's that
                        beastly American horse. Evelyn, I told you they have no decent horses in
                        this beastly country. They jiggle the life out of one" but he was
                        obliged to unbend himself perceptibly in order to keep pace with her as she
                        hurried through the door.
                    The Honourable Penelope allowed her indolent gaze to follow them. A perplexed
                        pucker finally developed on her fair brow and her thought was almost
                        expressed aloud: "By Jove, I wonder if she really loves
                        him." Penelope was very pretty and very bright.  She was visiting America for the first time
                        and she was learning rapidly. "Cecil 's a good sort, you
                        know, even" but she was loyal enough to send her thoughts into
                        other channels.
                    Nightfall brought half a dozen guests to Bazelhurst Villa. They were
                        fashionable to the point where ennui is the chief characteristic, and they
                        came only for bridge and sleep. There was a duke among them and also a
                        French count, besides the bored New Yorkers; they wanted brandy and soda as
                        soon as they got int the house, and they went to bed early because it was so
                        much easier to sleep lying down than sitting up.
                    All were up by noon the next day, more bored than ever, fondly praying that
                        nothing might happen before bedtime. The duke was making desultory love to
                        Mrs. De Peyton and Mrs. De Peyton was leading him aimlessly toward the
                        shadier and more secluded nooks in the park surrounding the Villa. Penelope,
                        fresh and full of the purpose of life, was off alone for a long stroll. By
                        this means she avoided the attentions of the duke, who wanted to marry her;
                        those of the count who also said he wanted to marry her but could
                        n't because his wife would not 
                        consent; those of one New Yorker, who liked her because she was English; and
                        the pallid chatter of the women who bored her with their conjugal cynicisms.
                    "What the deuce is this coming down the road?" queried the
                        duke, returning from the secluded nook at luncheon time.
                    "Some one has been hur," exclaimed his companion. Others
                        were looking down the leafy road from the gallery.
                    "By Jove, it's Penelope, don't you know,"
                        ejaculated the duke, dropping his monocle and blinking his eye as if to rest
                        it for the time being.
                    "But she 's not hurt. She 's helping to support
                        one of those men."
                    "Hey!" shouted his lordship from the gallery, as Penelope
                        and two dilapidated male companions abruptly started to cut across the park
                        in the direction of the stables. "What's up?"
                        Penelope waved her hand aimlessly, but did not change her course. Whereupon
                        the entire house party sallied forth in more or less trepidation to
                        intercept the strange party.
                    "Who are these men?" demanded Lady Bazelhurst, as they came
                        up to the fastbreathing young Englishwoman.
                    "Don't bother me, please. We must get  him to bed at once. He 'll have pneumonia,"
                        replied Penelope.
                    Both men were dripping wet and the one in the middle limped painfully,
                        probably because both eyes were swollen tight and his nose was bleeding.
                        Penelope's face was beaming with excitement and interest.
                    "Who are you?" demanded his lordship, planting himself in
                        front of the shivering twain.
                    "Tompkins," murmured the blind one feebly, tears starting
                        from the blue slits and rolling down his cheeks.
                    "James, sir," answered the other, touching his damp
                        forelock.
                    "Are they drunk?" asked Mrs. De Peyton, with fresh
                        enthusiasm.
                    "No, they are not, poor fellows," cried Penelope.
                        "They have taken nothing but water."
                    "By Jove, deuced clever that," drawled the duke.
                        "Eh?" to the New Yorker.
                    "Deuced," from the Knickerbocker.
                    "Well, well, what's it all about?" demanded
                        Bazelhurst.
                    "Mr. Shaw, sir," said James.
                    "Good Lord, could n't you rescue him?" in horror.
                    
                    "He rescued us, sir," mumbled Tompkins.
                    "You mean"
                    "He throwed us in and then had to jump in and pull us out, sir.
                        Beggin' your pardon, sir, but damn him!"
                    "And you did n't throw him in, after all? By Jove,
                        extraordinary!"
                    "Do you mean to tell us that he threw you great hulking creatures
                        into the river? Single-handed?" cried Lady Bazelhurst, aghast.
                    "He did, Evelyn," inserted Penelope. "I met them
                        coming home, and poor Tompkins was out of his senses. I don't know
                        how it happened, but"
                    "It was this way, your ladyship," put in James, the groom.
                        "Tompkins and me could see him from the point there, sir,
                        afishin' below the log. So we says to each other 'Come
                        on,' and up we went to where he was afishin'. Tompkins,
                        bein' the game warden, says he to him 'Hi there!'
                        He was plainly on our property, sir, afishin' from a boat for bass,
                        sir. 'Hello, boys,' says he back to us. 'Get off
                        our land,' says Tompkins. 'I am,' says he;
                        'it's water out here where I am.' Then"
                    
                    "You 're wrong," broke in Tompkins. "He
                        said 'it's wet out here where I am.'"
                    "You 're right. It was wet. Then Tompkins called him a vile
                        name, your lordship shall I repeat it, sir?"
                    "No, no!" cried four feminine voices.
                    "Yes, do," muttered the duke.
                    "He did n't wait after that, sir. He rowed to shore in a
                        flash and landed on our land. 'What do you mean by that?'
                        he said, mad-like. 'My orders is to put you off this
                        property,' says Tompkins, 'or to throw you in the
                        river.' 'Who gave these orders?' asked Mr. Shaw.
                        'Lord Bazelhurst, sir, damn you' beg pardon, sir; it
                        slipped out. 'And who the devil is Lord Bazelhurst?' said
                        he. 'Hurst,' said Tompkins. 'He owns this ground.
                        Can't you see the mottoes on the treesNo
                        Trespassin'?'but Mr. Shaw said: 'Well, why
                        don't you throw me in the river?' He kinder smiled when he
                        said it. 'I will,' says Tompkins, and made a rush for him.
                        I don't just remember why I started in to help Tompkins, but I did.
                        Somehow, sir, Mr. Shaw got"
                    "Don't call him Mr. Shaw. Just Shaw;  he's no gentleman," exploded
                        Lord Bazelhurst.
                    "But he told us both to call him 'Mister,' sir, as
                        long as we lived. I kinder got in the habit of it, your lordship, up there.
                        That is, that's what he told us after he got through with us. Well,
                        anyhow, he got the start of us an'there 's
                        Tompkins' eyes, sir, and look at my ear. Then he pitched us both in
                        the river."
                    "Good Lord!" gasped the duke.
                    "Diable!" sputtered the count.
                    "Splendid!" cried Penelope, her eyes sparkling.
                    "Hang it all, Pen, don't interrupt the count,"
                        snorted Bazelhurst, for want of something better to say and perhaps hoping
                        that Deveaux might say in French what could not be uttered in English.
                    "Don't say it in French, count," said little Miss
                        Folsom. "It deserves English."
                    "Go on, James," sternly, from Lady Bazelhurst.
                    "Well, neither of us can swim, your ladyship, an' we
                        'd 'a' drowned if Mr.if Shaw had n't
                        jumped in himself an' pulled us out. As it was, sir, Tompkins, was
                        unconscious. We rolled him on a log, sir, an'  got a keg of water out of him. Then Mr. erShaw told us to go
                        'ome and get in bed, sir."
                    "He sent a message to you, sir," added Tompkins, shivering
                        mightily.
                    "Well, I 'll have one for him, never fear," said
                        his lordship, glancing about bravely. "I won't permit any
                        man to assault my servants and brutally maltreat them. No, sir! He shall
                        hear from meor my attorney."
                    "He told us to tell you, sir, that if he ever caught anybody from
                        this place on his land he 'd serve him worse than he did
                        us," said Tompkins.
                    "He says, 'I don't want no Bazelhursts on my
                        place,'" added James in finality.
                    "Go to bed, both of you!" roared his lordship.
                    "Very good, sir," in unison.
                    "They can get to bed without your help, I daresay, Pen,"
                        added his lordship caustically, as she started away with them. Penelope with
                        a rare blush andwell, one party went to luncheon while the other went to
                        bed.
                    "I should like to see this terrible Mr. Shaw," observed
                        Penelope at table. "He 's a sort of Jack-the-Giant-Killer,
                        I fancy."
                    
                    "He is the sort one has to meet in
                        America," lamented her ladyship.
                    "Oh, I say now," expostulated the New York young man,
                        wryly.
                    "I don't mean in good society," she corrected,
                        with unconscious irony.
                    "Oh," said he, very much relieved.
                    "He 's a demmed cad," said his lordship
                        conclusively.
                    "Because he chucked your men into the river?" asked
                        Penelope sweetly.
                    "She's dooced pretty, eh?" whispered the duke to
                        Mrs. De Peyton without taking his eyes from his young country
                        woman's face.
                    "Who?" asked Mrs. De Peyton. Then he relinquished his gaze
                        and turned his monocle blankly upon the American beside him.
                    "I shall send him a warning that he'll have to respect, cad
                        or no cad," said Bazelhurst, absently spreading butter upon his
                        fingers instead of the roll.
                    "Send him a warning?" asked his queenly
                        wife. "Are n't you going to see him personally? You
                        can't trust the servants, it seems."
                    "My dear, I can't afford to lose my temper and engage in a
                        row with that bounder,  and there 's
                        no end of trouble I might get into"
                    "I shall see him myself, if you won't," said her
                        ladyship firmly. There was frigid silence at the table for a full minute,
                        relieved only when his lordship's monocle dropped into the glass of
                        water he was trying to convey to his lips. He thought best to treat the
                        subject lightly, so he laughed in his most jovial way.
                    "You 'd better take a mackintosh with you, my
                        dear," he said. "Remember what he told Tompkins and
                        James."
                    "He will not throw me into the river. It might be
                        different if you went. Therefore I think"
                    "Throw me in, would he?" and Bazelhurst laughed loudly.
                        "I'm no groom, my dear. You forget that it is possible for Mr. Shaw to be soused."
                    "He was good enough to souse himself this morning,"
                        volunteered Penelope. "I rather like him."
                    "By Jove, Cecil, you 're not afraid to meet him, are
                        you?" asked the duke with tantalizing coolness. "You know,
                        if you are, I 'll go over and talk to the fellow."
                    "Afraid? Now, hang it all, Barminster, 
                        that's rather a shabby thing to suggest. You forget
                        India."
                    "I 'm trying to. Demmed miserable time I had out there. But
                        this fellow fights. That's more than the beastly natives did when
                        we were out there. Marching is n't fighting, you know."
                    "Confound it, you forget the time"
                    "Mon Dieu, are we to compare ze Hindoo harem wiz ze American feest
                        slugger?" cried the count, with a wry face.
                    "What 's that?" demanded two noblemen in one
                        voice. The count apologized for his English.
                    "No one but a coward would permit this disagreeable Shaw creature to
                        run affairs in such a high-handed way," said her ladyship.
                    "Of course Cecil is not a coward."
                    "Thank you, my dear. Never fear, ladies and gentlemen; I shall
                        attend to this person. He won't soon forget what I have to say to
                        him," promised Lord Bazelhurst, mentally estimating the number of
                        brandies and soda it would require in preparation.
                    "This afternoon?" asked his wife, with cruel insistence.
                    "Yes, Evelynif I can find him."
                    And so it was that shortly after four 
                        o'clock, Lord Bazelhurst, unattended at his own request, rode forth
                        like a Lochinvar, his steed headed bravely toward Shaw's domain,
                        his back facing his own home with a military indifference that won applause
                        from the assembled house party.
                    "I 'll face him alone," he had said, a trifle
                        thickly, for some unknown reason, when the duke offered to accompany him. It
                        also might have been noticed as he cantered down the drive that his legs did
                        not stick out so stiffly, nor did his person bob so exactingly as on
                        previous but peaceful expeditions.
                    In fact, he seemed a bit limp. But his face was set determinedly for the
                        border line and Shaw.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    IN WHICH A YOUNG WOMAN TRESPASSES
                    MR. SHAW was a tall young man of thirty or thereabouts, smooth-faced,
                        good-looking and athletic. It was quite true that he wore a red coat when
                        tramping through his woods and vales, not because it was fashionable, but
                        because he had a vague horror of being shot at by some near-sighted nimrod
                        from Manhattan. A crowd of old college friends had just left him alone in
                        the hills after spending several weeks at his place, and his sole occupation
                        these days, aside from directing the affairs about the house and grounds,
                        lay in the efforts to commune with nature by means of a shotgun and a
                        fishing-rod. His most constant companion was a pipe, his most loyal follower
                        a dog.
                    As he sauntered slowly down the river road that afternoon, smiling
                        retrospectively  from time to time as he looked
                        into the swift, narrow stream that had welcomed his adversaries of the
                        morning, he little thought of the encounter in store for him. The little
                        mountain stream was called a river by courtesy because it was yards wider
                        than the brooks that struggled impotently to surpass it during the rainy
                        season. But it was deep and turbulent in places and it had a roar at times
                        that commanded the respect of the foolhardy.
                    "The poor devils might have drowned, eh, Bonaparte?" he
                        mused, addressing the dog at his side. "Confounded nuisance,
                        getting wet after all, though. Lord Bazelhurst wants war, does he? That log
                        down there is the dividing line in our river, eh? And I have to stay on this
                        side of it. By George, he 's a mean-spirited person. And it
                        's his wife's land, too. I wonder what she 's
                        like. It 's a pity a fellow can't have a quiet, decent
                        summer up here in the hills. Still"lighting his pipe"I
                        daresay I can give as well as I take. If I stay off his land, they
                        'll have to keep off of mine. Hullo, who 's that? A man,
                        by George, but he looks like a partridge. As I live, Bonaparte is pointing.
                        Ha, ha, that 's one on you, 
                        Bony." Mr. Shaw stepped into the brush at the side of the path and
                        watched the movements of the man at the "log," now less
                        than one hundred yards away.
                    Lord Bazelhurst, attired in his brown corduroys and his tan waistcoat,
                        certainly suggested the partridge as he hopped nimbly about in the distant
                        foreground, cocking his ears from time to time with all the aloofness of
                        that wily bird. He was, strange to relate, some little distance from
                        Bazelhurst territory, an actual if not a confident trespasser upon
                        Shaw's domain. His horse, however, was tethered to a sapling on the
                        safe side of the log, comfortably browsing on Bazelhurst grass. Randolph
                        Shaw, an unseen observer, was considerably mystified by the actions of his
                        unusual visitor.
                    His lordship paced back and forth with a stride that grew firmer as time
                        brought forth no hostile impediments. His monocle ever and anon was directed
                        both high and low in search of Shaw or his henchmen, while his face was
                        rapidly resolving itself into a bloom of rage.
                    "Confound him," his lordship was muttering, looking at his
                        timepiece with stern disapproval; "he can't expect me to
                        wait  here all day. I 'm on his land
                        and I'll stay here as long as I like." (At this juncture
                        he involuntarily measured the distance between himself and the log.)
                        "I knew it was all a bluff, his threat to put me off. Hang it all,
                        where is the fellow? I won't go up to his beastly house. I
                        won't gratify him by going up there even to give him his orders.
                        Demmed cad, blowhard! Five o'clock, confound him! I daresay he
                        's seen me and has crawled off into the underbrush. He 's
                        afraid of me; he 's a coward. It is as I feared. I can't
                        see the rascal. There's only one thing left for me to do. I
                        'll pin a note to this tree. Confound him, he shall hear from me;
                        he 'll have to read it."
                    Whereupon his lordship drew forth a large envelope from his pocket and
                        proceeded to fasten it to the trunk of a big tree which grew in the middle
                        of the road, an act of premeditation which showed strange powers of
                        prophecy. How could he, except by means of clairvoyance, have known before
                        leaving home that he was not to meet his enemy face to face?
                    As Mr. Shaw afterwards read the note and tossed it into the river, it is only
                        fair that the world should know its contents 
                        while it hung unfolded to the bark of the tall tree. It said, in a very
                        scrawling hand: "Mr. Shaw, I have looked all over this end of your
                        land for you this afternoon. You doubtless choose to avoid me. So be it. Let
                        me state, once and for all, that your conduct is despicable. I came here
                        personally to tell you to keep off my land, henceforth and for ever. I will
                        not repeat this warning, but will instead, if you persist, take such summary
                        measures as would befit a person of your instincts. I trust you will feel
                        the importance of keeping off." To this his lordship bravely signed
                        himself.
                    "There," he muttered, again holding his watch and fob up
                        for close inspection.
                    "He 'll not soon overlook what I 've said in that
                        letter, confound him."
                    He had not observed the approach of Randolph Shaw, who now stood, pipe in
                        hand, some twenty paces behind him in the road.
                    "What the devil are you doing?" demanded a strong bass
                        voice. It had the effect of a cannon shot.
                    His lordship leaped half out of his corduroys, turned with agonizing
                        abruptness toward the tall young man, and gasped "Oh!"  so shrilly that his horse looked up with a
                        start. The next instant his watch dropped forgotten from his fingers and his
                        nimble little legs scurried for territory beyond the log. Nor did he pause
                        upon reaching that supposedly safe ground. The swift glance he gave the
                        nearby river was significant as well as apprehensive. It moved him to
                        increased but unpolished haste.
                    He leaped frantically for the saddle, scorning the stirrups, landing
                        broadside but with sufficient nervous energy in reserve to scramble on and
                        upward into the seat. Once there, he kicked the animal in the flanks with
                        both heels, clutching with his knees and reaching for the bridle rein in the
                        same motion. The horse plunged obediently, but came to a stop with a jerk
                        that almost unseated the rider; the sapling swayed; the good but forgotten
                        rein held firm.
                    "Ha!" gasped his lordship as the horrid truth became clear
                        to him.
                    "Charge, Bonaparte!" shouted the man in the road.
                    "Soldiers?" cried the rider with a wild look among the
                        trees.
                    "My dog," called back the other. "He charges at
                        the word."
                    
                    "Well, you know, I saw service in the army," apologized his
                        lordship, with a pale smile. "Get ep!" to the horse.
                    "What 's your hurry?" asked Shaw, grinning broadly
                        as he came up to the log.
                    "Don'tdon't you dare to step over that
                        log," shouted Bazelhurst.
                    "All right. I see. But, after all, what 's the
                        rush?" The other was puzzled for the moment.
                    "I 'm practising, sir," he said unsteadily.
                        "How to mount on a run, demmit. Can't you see?"
                    "In case of fire, I imagine. Well, you made excellent time. By the
                        way, what has this envelope to do with it?"
                    "Who are you, sir?"
                    "Shaw. And you?"
                    "You 'll learn when you read that document. Take it home
                        with you."
                    "Ah, yes, I see it's for me. Why don't you untie
                        that hitch rein? And what the dickens do you mean by having a hitch rein,
                        anyway? No rider"
                    "Confound your impudence, sir, I did not come here to receive
                        instructions from you, dem you," cried his lordship defiantly. He
                        had succeeded at that moment in surreptitiously  slashing the hitch rein in two with his pocketknife. There was nothing
                        now to prevent him from giving the obtrusive young man a defiant farewell.
                        "I am Lord Bazelhurst. Good day, sir!"
                    "Just a minute, your lordship," called Shaw. "No
                        doubt you were timing yourself a bit ago, but that 's no reason why
                        you should leave your watch on my land. Of course, I 've nothing
                        against the watch, and, while I promise you faithfully that any human being
                        from your side of the log who ventures over on my side shall be ejected in
                        one way or another, it would seem senseless for me to kick this timepiece
                        into the middle of next week."
                    "Don't you dare kick that watch. It 's a hundred
                        years old."
                    "Far be it from me to take advantage of anything so old.
                        Don't you want it any longer?"
                    "Certainly, sir. I would n't part from it."
                    "Then why don't you come over and get it? Do you expect me
                        to break the rule by coming over on to your land to hand it to
                        you?"
                    "I should n't call that trespassing,
                        don't you know," began his lordship.
                    
                    "Ah? Nevertheless, if you want this watch you 'll have to
                        come over and get it."
                    "By Jove, now, that 's a demmed mean trick. I 'm
                        mounted. Beastly annoying. I say, would you mind tossing
                        it up to me?"
                    "I would n't touch it for ten dollars. By the way, I
                        'll just read this note of yours." Lord Bazelhurst
                        nervously watched him as he read; his heart lightened perceptibly as he saw
                        a good-humoured smile struggle to the tall young man's face. It
                        was, however, with some misgiving that he studied the broad shoulders and
                        powerful frame of the erstwhile poacher. "Very good of you, I
                        'm sure, to warn me."
                    "Good of me? It was imperative, let me tell you, sir. No man can
                        abuse my servants and trample all over my land and disturb my fish"
                    "Excuse me, but I have n't time to listen to all that. The
                        note 's sufficient. You 've been practising the running
                        mount until it looks well nigh perfect to me, so I 'll tell you
                        what I 'll do. I 'll step back thirty paces and then you
                        come over and get the watchif you 're not afraid of meand I
                        'll promise"
                    "Afraid? Demmit, sir, did n't I say I  was Lord Bazelhurst? Of the Guards, sir, and the Seventy-first?
                        Conf"
                    "You come over and get the watch and then see if you can get back to
                        the horse and mount before I get to the log. If I beat you there, you lose.
                        How 's that?"
                    "I decline to make a fool of myself. Either you will restore my
                        watch to me, or I shall instantly go before the authorities and take out a
                        warrant. I came to see you on business, sir, not folly. Lady Bazelhurst
                        herself would have come had I been otherwise occupied, and I want to assure
                        you of her contempt. You are a disgrace to her countrymen. If you ever put
                        foot on our land I shall have you thrown into the river. Demmit, sir, it
                        's no laughing matter. My watch, sir."
                    "Come and get it."
                    "Scalawag!"
                    "By George, do you know if you get too personal I will come over there." Randolph Shaw advanced with a
                        threatening scowl.
                    "Ha, ha!" laughed his lordship shrilly; "I dare
                        you!" He turned his horse's head for home and moved off a
                        yard or more. "Whoa! Curse you! This is the demdest horse to manage
                        I 've ever owned. Stand still, confound you! Whoa!"
                    
                    
                        "'So you are putting me off your place?
                            Oh, how lovely!'"
                    
                    
                    "He 'll stand if you stop licking him."
                    "Halloa! Hey, Bazelhurst!" came a far distant voice. The
                        adversaries glanced down the road and beheld two horsemen approaching from
                        Bazelhurst Villathe duke and the count.
                    "By Jove!" muttered his lordship, suddenly deciding that it
                        would not be convenient for them to appear on the scene at its present
                        stage. "My friends are calling me. Her ladyship doubtless is near
                        at hand. She rides, you knowI mean dem you! Would n't have her see
                        you for a fortune. Not another word, sir! You have my orders. Stay off or I
                        'llthrow you off!" This last threat was almost shrieked
                        and was plainly heard by the two horsemen.
                    "By Jove, he's facing the fellow," said the duke
                        to the count.
                    "Ees eet Shaw? Parbleu!"
                    "I 'll send some one for that watch. Don't you
                        dare to touch it," said his lordship in tones barely audible. Then
                        he loped off to meet his friends and turn them back before they came too
                        close for comfort. Randolph Shaw laughed heartily as he watched the retreat.
                        Seeing the newcomers halt and then turn abruptly back into their  tracks he picked up the watch and strolled off
                        into the woods, taking a short cut for the dirt road which led up to his
                        house.
                    "I had him begging for mercy," explained his lordship as he
                        rode along. "I was on his land for half an hour before he would
                        come within speaking distance. Come along. I need a drink."
                    Young Mr. Shaw came to the road in due time and paused, after his climb, to
                        rest on a stone at the wayside. He was still a mile from home and in the
                        loneliest part of his domain. The Bazelhurst line was scarcely a quarter of
                        a mile behind him. Trees and underbrush grew thick and impenetrable
                        alongside the narrow, winding road; the light of heaven found it difficult
                        to struggle through to the highway below. Picturesque but lonely and sombre
                        indeed were his surroundings.
                    "Some one coming?" he said aloud, as Bonaparte pricked up
                        his ears and looked up the road. A moment later a horse and rider turned the
                        bend a hundred yards away and came slowly toward him. He started to his feet
                        with an exclamation. The rider was a woman and she was making her way
                        leisurely toward the Bazelhurst lands. 
                        "Lady Bazelhurst, I 'll bet my hat," thought he
                        with a quiet whistle. "By George, this is awkward. My first
                        trespasser is in petticoats. I say, she 's a beautya ripping
                        beauty. Lord, Lord, what do such women mean by giving themselves to little
                        rats like Bazelhurst? Oh, the shame of it! Well, it 's up to me! If
                        I expect to 'make good,' I 've just got to fire
                        her off these grounds."
                    Naturally he expected to be very polite about itinstinctively so; he could
                        not have been otherwise. The horsewoman saw him step into the middle of the
                        road, smiling oddly but deferentially; her slim figure straightened, her
                        colour rose, and there was ayes, there was a relieved gleam in her eyes. As
                        she drew near he advanced, hat in hand, his face uplifted in his most
                        winning smilesavouring more of welcome than of repellence.
                    "I beg your pardon," he said; "doubtless you are
                        not aware that this is proscribed land."
                    "Then you are Mr. Shaw?" she asked,
                        checking her horse with premeditated surprise and an emphasis that puzzled
                        him.
                    "Yes, madam," he responded gravely,  "the hated Shaw. Permit me," and he politely
                        grasped the bridle rein. To her amazement he deliberately turned and began
                        to lead her horse, willy nilly, down the road, very much as if she were a
                        child taking her first riding lesson.
                    "What are you doing, sir?" she exclaimed sharply. There was
                        a queer flutter of helplessness in her voice.
                    "Putting you off," he answered laconically. She laughed in
                        delight and he looked up with a relieved smile. "I 'm glad
                        you don't mind. I have to do it. These feuds are such beastly
                        things, you know. One has to live up to them whether he likes it or
                        not."
                    "So you are putting me off your place? Oh, how lovely!"
                    "It is n't far, you knowjust down by those big rocks. Your
                        line is there. Of course," he went on politely, "you know
                        that there is a feud."
                    "Oh, yes; I 've heard you discussed. Besides, I met
                        Tompkins and James this morning. Pardon me, Mr. Shaw, but I fancy I can get
                        on without being led. Would you mind"
                    "My dear madam, there is no alternative. I have taken a solemn vow
                        personally to  eject all Bazelhurst trespassers
                        from my place. You forget that I am, by your orders, to be thrown into the
                        river and all that. Don't be alarmed! I don't mean to
                        throw you into the river."
                    "By my orders? It seems to me that you have confused me with Lord
                        Bazelhurst."
                    "Heaven has given me keener perception, your ladyship. I have seen
                        his lordship."
                    "Ah, may I inquire whether he was particularly rough with you this
                        afternoon?"
                    "I trust I am too chivalrous to answer that question."
                    "You are quite dry."
                    "Thank you. I deserve the rebuke, all right."
                    "Oh, I mean you have n't been in the river."
                    "Not since morning. Am I walking too fast for you?"
                    "Not at all. One could n't ask to be put off more
                        considerately."
                    "By Jove," he said involuntarily, his admiration getting
                        the better of him.
                    "I beg your pardon," with slightly elevated eyebrows.
                    "Do you know, you 're not at all what I imagined
                        you'd be."
                    
                    "Oh? And I fancy I 'm not at all whom you
                        imagined me to be."
                    "Heavens! Am I ejecting an innocent bystander? You are Lady Bazelhurst?"
                    "I am Penelope Drake. But"she added quickly"I am an enemy. I am Lord Bazelhurst's
                        sister."
                    "Youyou don't mean it?"
                    "Are you disappointed? I 'm sorry."
                    "I am staggered anda bit skeptical. There is no
                        resemblance."
                    "I am a bit taller," she admitted
                        carefully. "It is n't dreadfully immodest, is it, for one
                        to hold converse with her captor? I am in your power, you see."
                    "On the contrary, it is quite the thing. The heroine always
                        converses with the villain in books. She tells him what she thinks of
                        him."
                    "But this is n't a book and I'm not a heroine. I
                        am the adventuress. Will you permit me to explain my presence on your
                        land?"
                    "No excuse is necessary. You were caught red-handed and you
                        don't have to say anything to incriminate yourself
                        further."
                    "But it is scarcely a hundred feet to our line. In a very few
                        minutes I shall be  hurled relentlessly from
                        your land and may never have another chance to tell why I dared to venture
                        over here. You see, you have a haunted house on your land and I"
                        She hesitated.
                    "I see. The old Renwood cottage on the hill. Been deserted for
                        years. Renwood brought his wife up here in the mountains long ago and
                        murdered her. She comes back occasionally, they say; mysterious noises and
                        lights and all that. Well?"
                    "Well, I 'm very much interested in spooks. In spite of the
                        feud I rode over here for a peep at the house. Dear me, it 's a
                        desolate looking place. I did n't go inside, of course. Why
                        don't you tear it down?"
                    "And deprive the ghost of house and home? That would be heartless.
                        Besides, it serves as an attraction to bring visitors to my otherwise
                        unalluring place. I 'm terribly sorry the fortunes of war prevent
                        me from offering to take you through the house. But as long as you remain a
                        Bazelhurst I can't neglect my vow. Of course, I don't mean
                        to say that you can't come and do what you please
                        over here, but you shall be recognized and treated as a
                        trespasser."
                    
                    "Oh, that's just splendid! Perhaps I 'll come
                        to-morrow."
                    "I shall be obliged to escort you from the grounds, you
                        know."
                    "Yes, I know," she said agreeably. He looked dazed and
                        delighted. "Of course, I shall come with stealth and darkly. Not
                        even my brother shall know of my plans."
                    "Certainly not," he said with alacrity. (They were nearing
                        the line.) "Depend on me."
                    "Depend on you? Your only duty is to scare me off the
                        place."
                    "That's what I mean. I 'll keep sharp watch for
                        you up at the haunted house."
                    "It 's more than a mile from the line," she
                        advised him.
                    "Yes, I know," said he, with his friendliest smile.
                        "Oh, by the way, would you mind doing your brother a favour, Miss
                        Drake? Give him this watch. Heerhe must have dropped it while pursuing
                        me."
                    "You ran?" she accepted the watch with
                        surprise and unbelief.
                    "Here is the line, Miss Drake," he evaded.
                        "Consider yourself ignominiously ejected. Have I been unnecessarily
                        rough and expeditious?"
                    
                    "You have had a long and tiresome walk," she said, settling
                        herself for a merry clip. "Please don't step on our
                        side." He released the bridle rein and doffed his hat.
                    "I shall bring my horse to-morrow," he remarked
                        significantly.
                    "I may bring the duke," she said sweetly.
                    "In that case I shall have to bring an extra man to lead his horse.
                        It won't matter."
                    "So this rock is the dividing line?"
                    "Yes; you are on the safe side nowand so am I, for that matter. The
                        line is here," and he drew a broad line in the dust from one side
                        of the road to the other. "My orders are that you are not to ride
                        across that line, at your peril."
                    "And you are not to cross it either, at your
                        peril."
                    "Do you dare me?" with an eager step forward.
                    "Good-bye."
                    "Good-bye! I say, are you sure you can find the Renwood
                        cottage?" he called after her. The answer came back through the
                        clatter of hoofs, accompanied by a smile that seduced his self-possession.
                    "I shall find it in time."
                    
                    For a long time he stood watching her as she raced down the road.
                    "At my peril," he mused, shaking his head with a queer
                        smile. "By George, that 's fair warning enough.
                        She's beautiful."
                    At dinner that night the Honourable Penelope restored the watch to her
                        brother, much to his embarrassment, for he had told the duke it was being
                        repaired in town.
                    "It was n't this watch that I meant, old chap," he
                        announced, irrelevantly, to the duke, quite red in the face. "Where
                        did you find it, Pen?" She caught the plea in his eye and responded
                        loyally.
                    "You dropped it, I daresay, in pursuing Mr. Shaw."
                    The positive radiance which followed dismay in his watery eyes convinced her
                        beyond all doubt that her brother's encounter with the tall Mr.
                        Shaw was not quite creditable to Bazelhurst arms. She listened with pensive
                        indiffrence to the oft-repeated story of how he had routed the
                        "insufferable cad," encouraged by the support of champagne
                        and the solicited approval of two eye-witnesses. She could not repress the
                        mixed feelings of scorn, shame, and pity, as she surveyed the array of men
                        who so mercilessly flayed the  healthy,
                        fair-faced young man with the gentle strength.
                    The house party had been augmented during the day by the arrival of half a
                        dozen men and women from the city, brain-fagged, listless, and smart. The
                        big cottage now was full, the company complete for three weeks at least. She
                        looked ahead, this fresh, vigorous young Englishwoman, and wondered how she
                        was to endure the staleness of life.
                    There was some relief in the thought that the men would make love to the
                        goodlooking young married womenat least part of the timeandbut it depressed
                        her in turn to think of the left-over husbands who would make love to her.
                    "Why is it that Evelyn does n't have real men herelike this
                        Mr. Shaw?" she found herself wondering vaguely as the night wore
                        on.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    IN WHICH A DOG TRESPASSES
                    PENELOPE was a perverse and calculating young person. She was her own
                        mistress and privileged to ride as often as she pleased, but it seemed
                        rather oddalthough splendidly decorousthat she did not venture upon Mr.
                        Shaw's estate for more than a week after her first encounter with
                        the feudal baron. If she found a peculiarly feminine satisfaction in
                        speculating on his disappointment, it is not to be wondered at. Womanly
                        insight told her that Randolph Shaw rode forth each day and watched with
                        hawk-like vigilance for the promised trespasser. In her imagination, she
                        could almost hear him curse the luck that was helping her to evade the
                        patrol.
                    One morning, after a rain, she rode with the duke to the spot where Shaw had
                        drawn  his line in the road. She felt a thrill
                        of something she could not define on discovering that the wet soil on the
                        opposite side of the line was disfigured by a mass of fresh hoof-prints. She
                        rejoiced to find that his vigil was incessant and worthy of the respect it
                        imposed. The desire to visit the haunted house was growing more and more
                        irresistible, but she turned it aside with all the relentless perverseness
                        of a woman who feels it worth while to procrastinate.
                    Truth to tell, Randolph Shaw was going hollow-eyed and faint in his
                        ceaseless, racking watch for trespassers.
                    Penelope laughed aloud as she gazed upon the tangle of hoof-prints. The duke
                        looked as surprised as it was possible for him to look after the wear of the
                        past night.
                    "Hang it all, Penelope," he said. "I did
                        n't say anything, don't you know."
                    "I was just thinking," she said hastily, "what fun
                        it would be for us to explore the haunted house."
                    "Oh, I say, Pen, that's going out of the way for a little
                        fun, is n't it? My word, it 's a filthy old house with
                        rats and mice and all thatno place for a ghost, much less a nice  little human being like you. They're
                        all like that."
                    "I think you are afraid to go," said she.
                    "Afraid of ghosts? Pshaw!" sniffed the duke, sticking out
                        his chest.
                    "Yes, Shaw! That's whom you 're afraid
                        of."
                    "Now, see here, Pen, you should n't say that. Shaw
                        's a d, a cad. See what Cecil did to him. Remember that? Well,
                        pooh! What would I do to him?" Penelope looked
                        him over critically.
                    "I 'll admit that you 're larger and younger than
                        Cecil," she confessed grudgingly. "But they say Mr. Shaw
                        is a giant-killer." The duke dropped his monocle and guffawed
                        loudly.
                    "Good!" he cried in the ecstasy of pride. His worn,
                        dissipated face lighted up with unwonted interest. "I say, Pen,
                        that's the nicest thing you 've said to me in a week. You
                        've been so deuced cold of late. I don't understand. I
                        'm not such a bad lot, you know."
                    "Tell that to Mrs. De Peyton and Mrs. Corwith. They 're
                        looking for the good in everything."
                    
                    "By Jove, I believe you 're jealous! This is the proudest
                        moment of my life."
                    "Don't be silly! And don't try to make love to me
                        any more. Wait until I 'm married," she added with a
                        laught, the irony of which escaped him.
                    "But, hang it all, suppose you should marry some one else and not
                        me."
                    "That's what I mean."
                    "Oh!" he said, perplexed. Then, as if his stupidity called
                        for an explanation: "I had a beastly night. Did n't go to
                        bed till four. But, I say, why can't I have the same privilege as
                        these other chaps? Corwith makes love to you and so does Odwell, and, hang
                        it, they 're both married. It's rotten mean of"
                    "Their wives are accountable for their manners, not I. But, come;
                        will you go to Renwood's with me?"
                    "I 'd rather talk to you in that nice little corner of the
                        billiard-room at home, if you"
                    "But I don't need a brandy and soda. Oh!" This
                        exclamation came with the discovery of an approaching horseman.
                        "It's Mr. ShawI 'm sure."
                    Randolph Shaw, loyal to his feudal promise, 
                        appeared in the road a couple of hundred yards away. He drew rein and from
                        that distance surveyed the two who were so near to encoraching upon his
                        preserves. He sat straight and forbidding in the saddle. For a full minute
                        the two factions stared at each other. Then, without a sign of recognition,
                        Shaw turned and rode rapidly away.
                    "He rides like a gentleman," commented Miss Drake, after
                        reflection.
                    "Indian blood in him," remarked her companion.
                    "Let us go home," said she, whirling her horse like a
                        flash. The duke had some difficulty in keeping abreast of her during the
                        ride and he lost sight of her altogether after they dismounted at Bazelhurst
                        Villa.
                    The momentary glimpse of a real man set Penelope's opinions on edge
                        for the remainder of the day and night. Shaw, whatever else he might be, was
                        a man. Even while others addressed her in conversation she was
                        absent-mindedly recalling to memory certain English gentlemen at home who
                        could stand comparison with this handsome fellow across the danger line. But
                        to compare any one of the men in Lady Bazelhurst's house  partyoh, it was absrud! She looked them over.
                        Dull-eyed, blas, frayed by the social whirl, worn out, pulseless, all of
                        them. They talked automobile, bridge, women, and self in particular; in the
                        seclusion of a tte--tte they talked love with an ardour that lost most of
                        its danger because it was from force of habit. One of the men was even now
                        admitting in her ear that he had not spent an evening alone with his wife in
                        four years.
                    "There 's always something doing," he said.
                        "A week or two ago, by Jove, you would n't believe it, but
                        we had an evening turn up without a thing on hand. Strangest thing I ever
                        knew. Neither of us had a thing on. We said we'd stay at home and
                        go to bed early, just to see how it felt. Well, what do you think? We sat up
                        and read till half past ten o'clock and then both of us thought of
                        it at the same time. We dressed and went down to Rector's and
                        waited for the theatres to let out. Three o'clock when we got home.
                        You can't imagine what a queer experience it is, being all alone
                        with one's wife."
                    "Don't you love your wife, Mr. Odwell?"
                    "Certainly; but there's always a crowd."  Both of them glanced over at pretty Mrs.
                        Odwell. She was looking down at her plate demurely while Reggie Van Voort
                        talked straight into her pink ear, his eyes gleaming with the zest of
                        invasion. "I say, Miss Drake, you won't mind talking to me
                        awhile after dinner, will you?" went on Odwell, something like
                        relief in his voice.
                    After dinner she was obliged to set him straight in a little matter. They
                        were sitting on the terrace and he had thrown away his half-smoked
                        cigarette, an act in itself significant. She had been listening patiently,
                        from sheer habit and indifference, to what he was saying, but at last she
                        revolted.
                    "Don't! You shall not say such things to me. I am not your
                        kind, I fancy, Mr. Odwell," she said. "I don't
                        know why you should tell me of your chorus-girl friendsof your suppers and
                        all that. I don't care to hear of them and I don't intend
                        that you shall use me as a subject of illustration. I am going
                        upstairs."
                    "Oh, come now, that's rather rough, just as we were getting
                        on so well. All the fellows do the same"
                    "I know. You need not tell me. And  you
                        all have wives at home, too," with intense scorn.
                    "Now, that's were you wrong us. They 're not at home, you know. That 's just it."
                    "Never mind, Mr. Odwell; I 'm going in." She left
                        him and entered the house. For a minute or two he looked after her in
                        wonder, and then, softly whistling, made his way over to where De Peyton,
                        through some oversight, was talking to his own wife. De Peyton
                        unceremoniously announced that he was going upstairs to write a letter.
                    Penelope, flushed with disgust and humiliation, drew near a crowd of men and
                        women in the long living-room. Her brother was haranguing the assemblage,
                        standing forth among them like an unconquered bantam. In spite of herself,
                        she felt a wave of shame and pity creep over her as she looked at him.
                    "Barminster says the fellow ran when he saw him to-day,"
                        his lordship was saying. "But that does n't help matters.
                        He has been on my land again and again, Tompkins says, and Tompkins ought to
                        know."
                    "And James, too," said the duke with a brandied roar.
                    
                    "Can't Tompkins and his men keep that man off my
                        land?" demanded Lady Bazelhurst. Every one took note of the
                        pronoun. Her ladyship's temples seemed to narrow with hatred.
                        Bazelhurst had told the men privately that she was passing sleepless nights
                        in order to "hate that fellow Shaw" to her full capacity.
                    "My dear, I have given positive orders to Tompkins and he swears
                        he'll carry them out," said he hastily.
                    "I suppose Tompkins is to throw him into the river again."
                    "He is to shoot that fellow Shaw if he does n't keep off
                        our land. I 've had enough of it. They say he rode his confounded
                        plough horse all over the west end the other day." Penelope smiled
                        reflectively. "Trampled the new fern beds out of existence and all
                        that. Hang him, Tompkins will get him if he persists. He has told the men to
                        take a shot at the rascal on sight. Tompkins does n't love him, you
                        know."
                    Penelope went her way laughing andforgot the danger that threatened Randolph
                        Shaw.
                    The next morning, quite early, she was off for a canter. Some magnetic force
                        drew  her toward that obliterated line in the
                        roadway. Almost as she came up to it and stopped, Randolph Shaw rode down
                        the hillside through the trees and drew rein directly opposite, the noses of
                        their horses almost touching. With a smile he gave the military salute even
                        as she gasped in selfconscious dismay.
                    "On duty, Miss Drake. No trespassing," he said. There was a
                        glad ring in his voice. "Please don't run away. You
                        're on the safe side."
                    "I 'm not going to run," she said, her cheek
                        flushing. "How do you know where the line is? It has been destroyed
                        by the ravages of time."
                    "Yes. It has seemed a year. This thing of acting sentinel so
                        religiously is a bit wearing." His great, friendly dog came across
                        the line, however, and looked bravely up into the enemy's face,
                        wagging his tail. "Traitor! Come back, Bonaparte," cried
                        his master.
                    "What a beautiful dog," she cried, sincere admiration in
                        her eyes. "I love a big dog. He is your best friend, I 'll
                        wager."
                    "'Love me, love my dog,' is my motto."
                    
                    The conversation was not prolonged. Penelope began to find herself on rather
                        friendly terms with the enemy. Confusion came over her when she remembered
                        that she was behaving in a most unmaidenly manner. Doubtless that was why
                        she brought the meeting to a close by galloping away.
                    The ways of fortune are strange, look at them from any point of view.
                        Surprising as it may seem, a like encounter happened on the following day
                        andaye, on the day after and every day for a week or more. Occasions there
                        were when Penelope was compelled to equivocate shamefully in order to escape
                        the companionship of the duke, the count, or others of their ilk. Once, when
                        the guardian of the road was late at his post, she rode far into the
                        enemy's country, actually thrilled by the joy of adventure. When he
                        appeared far down the road, she turned and fled with all the sensations of a
                        culprit. And he thundered after her with vindictiveness that deserved better
                        results. Across the line she drew rein and faced him defiantly, her hair
                        blown awry, her cheeks red, her eyes sparkling.
                    "No trespass!" she cried, holding up her  gloved hand. He stopped short, for that was
                        one of the terms of truce.
                    The next day he again was missing, but she was not to be caught by his
                        stratagem. Instead of venturing into the trap he had prepared for her, she
                        remained on her side of the line, smiling at the thought of him in hiding
                        far up the road. If any one had deggested to her that she was developing too
                        great an interest in this stalwart gentleman, she would have laughed him to
                        scorn. It had not entered her mind to question herself as to the pleasure
                        she found in being near him. She was founding her actions on the basis that
                        he was a real man and that the little comedy of adventure was quite worth
                        while.
                    At length an impatient line appeared on her fair brow, a resentful gleam in
                        her eyes. His remissness was an impertinence! It was the last time she would
                        comebut a sudden thought struck her like a blow. She turned white and red by
                        turns. Had he tired of the sport? Had the novelty worn off? Was he laughing
                        at her for a silly coquette? The riding crop came down sharply upon her
                        horse's flank and a very deeply agitated young woman galloped off
                             toward Bazelhurst Villa, hurrying as
                        though afraid he might catch sight of her in flight.
                    A quarter of a mile brought a change in her emotions. British stubbornness
                        arose to combat an utter rout. After all, why should she run away from him?
                        With whimsical bravado, she turned off suddenly into the trail that led to
                        the river, her colour deepening with the consciousness that, after all, she
                        was vaguely hoping she might see him somewhere before the morning passed.
                        Through the leafy pathway she rode at a snail's pace, brushing the
                        low-hanging leaves and twigs from about her head with something akin to
                        petulance. As she neared the river the neighing of a horse hard by caused
                        her to sit erect with burning ears. Then she relapsed into a smile,
                        remembering that it might have come from the game warden's horse. A
                        moment later her searching eyes caught sight of Shaw's horse tied
                        to a sapling and on Bazelhurst ground, many hundred feet from his own
                        domain. She drew rein sharply and looked about in considerable trepidation.
                        Off to the right lay the log that divided the lands, but nowhere along the
                        bank of the river could she see the trespasser. Carefully she resumed her
                             way, ever on the lookout, puzzled not a
                        little by the unusual state of affairs.
                    Near the river trail she came upon the man, but he paid no heed to her
                        approach. He sat with his face in his hands andshe could not believe her
                        eyes and earshe was sobbing bitterly. For an instant her lips curled in the
                        smile of scornful triumph and then something like disgust came over her.
                        There was mockery in her voice as she called out to him.
                    "Have you stubbed your toe, little boy?"
                    He looked up, dazed. Then he arose, turning his back while he dashed his hand
                        across his eyes. When he glanced back at her he saw that she was smiling.
                        But she also saw something in his face that drove the smile away. Absolute
                        rage gleamed in his eyes.
                    "So it is real war," he said hoarsely, his face quivering.
                        "Your pitiful cowards want it to be real, do they? Well,
                        that's what it shall be, hang them! They shall have all they want
                        of it! Look! This is their way of fighting, is it? Look!"
                    He pointed to his feet. Her bewildered eyes saw that his hand was bloody and
                        a deathly sickness came over her. He was 
                        pointing to the outstretched, inanimate form of the dog that had been his
                        friend and comrade. She knew that the beast was dead and she knew that her
                        brother's threat had not been an idle one. A great wave of pity and
                        horror swept over her. Moisture sprang to her eyes on the moment.
                    "Hehe is dead?" she exclaimed.
                    "Yesand killed by some cowardly brute whose neck I 'd like
                        to wring. That dogmy Bonapartewho knew no feud, who did no wrong! Your
                        brother wants war, does he? Well, I 'll give him all"
                    "But my brother could not have done a thing like this," she
                        cried, slipping from her saddle and advancing toward him quickly.
                        "Oh, no, no! Not this! He is not that sort, I know. It must have
                        been an accident and"
                    "Accident! Don't come near me! I mean it. God, my heart is
                        too full of vengeance. Accident? Is this blood on my arm accidental? Bah! It
                        was a deliberate attempt to murder me!"
                    "You? You, too?" she gasped, reeling.
                    "Yesthey 've winged me, too. Oh, God, if I only had been
                        armed. There would have been a killing!"
                    
                    "Let me seelet me help you!" she cried, coming up to his
                        side, white-faced and terrified. "I won't stay away! You
                        are hurt. Please! Please! I am not your enemy."
                    For a long minute he held back, savagely resentful, glowering upon her, then
                        his face softened and his hand went out to clasp hers.
                    "I knew you had nothing to do with it. Forgive meforgive my
                        rudeness. Don't be alarmed about me. Two or three scattered shot
                        struck me in the arm. The fellow's aim was bad when it came to me.
                        But hehe got the dog! Poor old Bonaparte! It's as if he were aa
                        brother, Miss Drake. I loved him and he loved me."
                    "You must let me see your arm. I will not take no for an answer. It
                        must need attention"
                    "Believe me, it is nothing. I have tied my handkerchief about ittwo
                        little shot, that's all. The first charge riddled the dog. But I
                        forget. I am still on your sister's land. At any minute I may be
                        shot from behind some tree. II could n't help crying, Miss Drake.
                        It was cruelfiendish!  Now, if you'll
                        permit me, I 'll take my dead off of your land."
                    "Stop! I must know about it. Tell me; how did it happen?"
                    "I can't talk about it to you."
                    "Why not? Do you think I condone this outrage? Do you think I can
                        support such means of warfare? You do not know me, Mr. Shaw; you do not know
                        an Englishwoman's love of fairness."
                    "By Jove, do you mean it?" his eyes lighted up.
                        "But, after all, you belong to the other camp," he added
                        dejectedly. "II wish to heaven, Miss Drake, you were not one of
                        them!"
                    "My brotherCecil would not have permitted this," she tried
                        to apologize, remembering with a cold heart that Lord Bazelhurst had given
                        the very instructions of which this was the result.
                    "We can't discuss it, Miss Drake. Some one from your side
                        of the line killed my dog and then fired at me. I'll admit I was
                        trespassing, but not until the dog was shot. He was on Lady
                        Bazelhurst's land when he was shot. It was not until after that
                        that I trespassed, if you are pleased to call it such. But I was unarmed;
                        hang the luck!"  The way he said it
                        conveyed much to her understanding.
                    "Tell me, please."
                    "I 've had murder in my heart for half an hour, Miss Drake.
                        Somehow you soothe me." He sat down on the log again and leaned his
                        head upon his hand. With his eyes upon the dead dog he went on, controlling
                        his anger with an effort: "I rode down the river road this morning
                        for a change, intending to go up later on to our trysting place through the
                        wood." She heard him call it a trysting place without a thought of
                        resentment or shame. "When I came to the log there I stopped, but
                        Bonaparte, lawless old chap, kept on. I paid no attention to him, for I was
                        thinking ofof something else. He had raced around in the forbidden
                        underbrush for some time before I heard the report of a gun near at hand.
                        The dog actually screamed like a human being. I saw him leap up from the
                        ground and then roll over. Of course, Iwell, I trespassed. Without thinking
                        of my own safety I flew to where the dog was lying. He looked up into my
                        face and whined just as he died. I don't remember how I got off the
                        horse. The  next I knew I was rushing blindly
                        into the brush toward a place where I saw smoke, cursing like a fiend. Then
                        came the second shot and the stringing in my arm. It brought me to my
                        senses. I stopped and a moment later I saw man running down along the bank
                        of the stream. Ioh, well, there is n't any more to tell. I
                        don't know who fired the shots. I could n't see his
                        face."
                    "It was Tompkins," she cried. "I know it was. He
                        had his orders" but she checked herself in confusion.
                    "His orders? Do you mean to sayMiss Drake, did your brother instruct
                        him to kill me?" She quailed beneath his look.
                    "II can't say anything more about it, Mr. Shaw,"
                        she murmured, so piteously that he was touched. For a seemingly interminable
                        length of time his hard eyes looked into hers and then they softened.
                    "I understand," he said simply. "You cannot talk
                        about it. I 'll not ask any questions."
                    "My brother is weak in her hands," she managed to say in
                        extenuation.
                    "After all, it is n't a pleasant subject. If  you don't mind, we'll let it
                        dropthat is, between you and me, Miss Drake. I hope the war won't
                        break off our"
                    "Don't suggest it, please! I 'd rather you would
                        n't. We are friends, after all. I thought it was playing at warand
                        I can't tell you how shocked I am."
                    "Poor old Bonaparte!" was all he said in reply. She stooped
                        and laid her hand on the fast-chilling coat of the dog. There were tears in
                        her eyes as she arose and turned away, moving toward her horse. Shaw
                        deliberately lifted the dead animal into his arms and strode off toward his
                        own land. She followed after a moment of indecision, leading the horse.
                        Across the line he went and up the side of the knoll to his right. At the
                        foot of a great tree he tenderly deposited his burden. Then he turned to
                        find her almost beside him.
                    "You won't mind my coming over here, will you?"
                        she asked softly. He reached out and clasped her hand, thoughtlessly, with
                        his blood-covered fingers. It was not until long afterward that she
                        discovered his blood upon the hand from which she had drawn her riding
                        glove.
                    "You are always welcome" he said.
                        "I  am going to bury him here this
                        afternoon. No, please don't come. I 'll bring the men down
                        to help me. I suppose they think I 'm a coward and a bounder over
                        at your place. Do you remember the challenge you gave me yesterday? You
                        dared me to come over the line as far into Bazelhurst land as you had come
                        into mine. Well, I dared last night."
                    "You dared? You came?"
                    "Yes, and I went farther than you have gone, because I thought it
                        was play, comedy, fun. I even sat upon your gallery, just outside the
                        billiard-roomand smoked two cigarettes. You 'll find the stubs on
                        the porch railing if her ladyship's servants are not too
                        exemplary." She was looking at him in wide-eyed unbelief.
                        "I was there when you came out on the lawn with the
                        Frenchman."
                    "Did you hear what he waswhat we were saying?" she asked,
                        nervously and going pale.
                    "No. I was not eavesdropping. Besides, you returned to the house
                        very abruptly, if you remember."
                    "Yes, I remember," she said, a sigh of relief accompanying
                        the warm glow that came  to her cheek.
                        "But were you not afraid of being discovered? How imprudent of
                        you!"
                    "It was a bit risky, but I rather rejoyed it. The count spoke to me
                        as I left the place. It was dark and he mistook me for one of your party. I
                        could n't wait to see if you returned to renew the
                        tte--tte"
                    "I did not return," she said. It was his turn to be
                        relieved.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    IN WHICH THE TRUTH TRESPASSES
                    LORD and Lady Bazelhurst, with the more energetic members of their party,
                        spent the day in a so-called hunting excursion to the hills south of the
                        Villa. Toward nightfall they returned successfully empty-handed and
                        rapacious for bridge. Penelope, full of smouldering anger, had spent the
                        afternoon in her room, disdaining every call of sociability. She had
                        awakened to the truth of the situation in so far as she was concerned. She
                        was at least seeing things from Shaw's point of view. Her
                        resentment was not against the policy of her brother but the overbearing,
                        petulant tyranny of her American sister-in-law. From the beginning she had
                        disliked Evelyn; now she despised her. With the loyal simplicity of a sister
                        she absolved Cecil of all real  blame in the
                        outrage of the morning, attributing everything to the cruelty and envy of
                        the despot who held the purse-strings from which dangled the pliable
                        fortunes of Bazelhurst. The Bazelhursts, one and allancestors thrown inswung
                        back and forth on the pendulum of her capriciousness. Penelope, poor as a
                        church mouse, was almost wholly dependent upon her brother, who in turn owed
                        his present affluence to the more or less luckless movement of the
                        matrimonial market. The girl had a small, inadequate incomeso small it was
                        almost worth jesting about.
                    Here was Penelope, twenty-two, beautiful, proud, fair-minded, and healthy,
                        surveying herself for the first time from a new and an entirely different
                        point of view. She was not pleased with the picture. She began to loathe
                        herself more than she pitied her brother. Something like a smile came into
                        her clouded face as she speculated on Randolph Shaw's method of
                        handling Evelyn Banks had she fallen to him as a wife. The quiet power in
                        that man's face signified the presence of a manhood thatah, and
                        just here it occurred to her that Lady Bazelhurst felt the force of that
                        power even though she  never had seen the man.
                        She hated him because he was strong enough to oppose her, to ignore her, to
                        laugh at her impotence.
                    The smouldering anger and a growing sense of fairness combined at length in
                        the determination to take her brother and his wife to task for the
                        morning's outrage, let the consequences be what they might. When
                        she joined the people downstairs before dinner, there was a red spot in each
                        cheek and a steady look in her eyes that caused the duke to neglect woefully
                        the coversation he was carrying on with Mrs. Odwell.
                    Dinner was delayed for nearly half an hour while four of the guests finished
                        their "rubber." Penelope observed that the party displayed
                        varying emotions. It afterwards transpired that the hunters had spent most
                        of the afternoon in her ladyship's distant lodge playing bridge for
                        rather high stakes. Little Miss Folsom was pitifully unresponsive to the
                        mirth of Mr. Odwell. She could ill afford to lose six hundred dollars. Lady
                        Bazelhurst was in a frightful mood. Her guests had so far forgotten
                        themselves as to win more than a thousand dollars of the Banks legacy and
                        she was not a cheerful loser,especially as his lordship  had dropped an additional five hundred. The winners were
                        riotously happy. They had found the sport glorious. An observer, given to
                        deductions, might have noticed that half of the diners were immoderately
                        hilarious, the other half studiously polite.
                    Lord Bazelhurst wore a hunted look and drank more than one or two highballs.
                        From time to time he cast furtive glances at his wife. He laughed frequently
                        at the wrong time and mirthlessly.
                    "He's got something on his mind," whispered Odwell
                        in comment.
                    "Yes; he always laughs when there is anything on his mind,"
                        replied Mrs. De Peyton. "That's the way he gets it
                        off."
                    After dinner no one proposed cards. The party edged off into twos and threes
                        and explained how luck had been with or against them. Penelope, who could
                        not afford to play for stakes, and had the courage to say so, sat back and
                        listened to the conversation of her brother and the group around him. The
                        duke was holding forth on the superiority of the Chinese over the Japanese
                        as servants and Bazelhurst was loudly defending the Japanese navy.
                    
                    "Hang it all, Barminster, the Japs could eat 'em
                        up," he proclaimed. "Could n't they?" to
                        the crowd.
                    "I 'm talking about servants, Cecil," observed the
                        duke.
                    "And shoot? Why, they 're the greatest gunners in the
                        world. By Jove, I read somewhere the other day that they had hit what they
                        shot at three million times out ofor, let me see, was it the Prussians who
                        fired three million rounds and"
                    "Oh, let's change the subject," said the duke in
                        disgust. "What's become of that Shaw fellow?"
                        Penelope started and flushed, much to her chagrin. At the sound of
                        Shaw's name Lady Bazelhurst, who was passing with the count,
                        stopped so abruptly that her companion took half a dozen paces without her.
                    "Shaw? By Jove, do you know, I 'd completely forgotten that
                        fellow," exclaimed Cecil.
                    "I thought you were going to shoot him, or shoot at him, or
                        something like that. Can't you get him in range?"
                    "Oh, I was n't really in earnest about that, Barminster.
                        You know we could n't shoot at a fellow for such a thing"
                    
                    
                        "She was her own mistress and privileged to ride
                            as often as she pleased"
                    
                    
                    "Nonsense, Cecil," said his wife. "You shoot
                        poachers in England."
                    "But this fellow is n't a poacher. He 's aa
                        gentleman, I daresayin some respectsnot all, of course, my dear,
                        but"
                    "Gentleman? Ridiculous!" scoffed his wife.
                    "Iyes, quite righta ridiculous gentleman, of course. Ha, ha! Is
                        n't he, Barminster? But with all that, you know, I could
                        n't have Tompkins shoot him. He asked me the other day if he should
                        take a shot at Shaw's legs, and I told him not to do anything so
                        absurd." Penelope's heart swelled with relief, and for the
                        first time that evening she looked upon her brother with something like
                        sisterly regard.
                    "It did n't matter, however," said Lady Evelyn
                        sharply. "I gave him instructions yesterday to shoot any trespasser
                        from that side of the line. I can't see that we owe Mr. Shaw any
                        especial consideration. He has insulted and ignored me at every opportunity.
                        Why should he be permitted to trespass more than any other common
                        lawbreaker? If he courts a charge of birdshot he should not expect to escape
                        scot free.  Birdshot would n't kill a
                        man, you know, but it would"
                    But Penelope could restrain herself no longer. The heartlessness of her
                        sister-in-law overcame her prudence, and she interrupted the scornful
                        mistress of the house, her eyes blazing, but her voice under perfect
                        control. Her tall young figure was tense, and her fingers clasped the back
                        of Miss Folsom's chair rather rigidly.
                    "I suppose you know what happened this morning," she said,
                        with such apparent restraint that every one looked at her expectantly.
                    "Do you mean in connection with Mr.with
                        Jack-the-Giant-Killer?" asked her ladyship, her eyes brightening.
                    "Some one of your servants shot him this morning," said
                        Penelope with great distinctness. There was breathless silence in the room.
                    "Shot him?" gasped Lord Bazelhurst, his thin red face going
                        very white.
                    "Notnot fatally?" exclaimed Evelyn, aghast in spite of
                        herself.
                    "No. The instructions were carried out. His wound in the arm is
                        trifling. But the coward was not so generous when it came to  the life of his innocent, harmless dog. He
                        killed the poor thing. Evelyn, it'sit's like
                        murder."
                    "Oh," cried her ladyship, relieved. "He killed the
                        dog. I daresay Mr. Shaw has come to realize at last that we are earnest in
                        this. Of course I am glad that the man is not badly hurt. Still, a few shot
                        in the arm will hardly keep him in bounds. His legs were intended,"
                        she laughed lightly. "What miserable aim Tompkins must
                        take."
                    "He 's a bit off in his physiology, my dear," said
                        Cecil, with a nervous attempt at humour. He did not like the expression in
                        his sister's face. Somehow, he was ashamed.
                    "Oh, it's bad enough," said Penelope. "It
                        was his left armthe upper arm, too. I think the aim was rather
                        good."
                    "Pray, how do you know all of this, Penelope?" asked her
                        ladyship, lifting her eyebrows. "I've heard that you see
                        Mr. Shaw occasionally, but you can't be his physician, I
                        'm sure."
                    Penelope flushed to the roots of her hair, but suppressed the retort which
                        would have been in keeping with the provocation.
                    "Oh, dear, no!" she replied. "I'm too  soft-hearted to be a physician. I saw Mr. Shaw
                        just after theahthe incident."
                    "You shaw SawI mean you saw Shaw?" gasped Bazelhurst.
                    "She sees him frequently, Cecil. It was not at all unusual that she
                        should have seen him to-day. I daresay he waited to show you his wound
                        before going to a surgeon."
                    Penelope could not resist the temptation to invent a story befitting the
                        moment. Assuming a look of concern, she turned to her brother and said:
                        "He is coming to see you about it to-morrow, and he is coming armed
                        to the teeth, attended by a large party of friends. Mr. Shaw says he will
                        have satisfaction for the death of that dog if he has to shoot everybody on
                        the place."
                    "Good Lord!" cried the duke. There was instant excitement.
                        "I believe the wretch will do it, too."
                    "Oh, I say, Bazelhurst, settle with him for the dog," said
                        De Peyton nervously. He looked at his watch and then at his wife. The entire
                        party now was listening to the principal speakers.
                    "Nonsense!" exclaimed Lady Evelyn. "He
                        won't come. It's all bluster. Don't  let it frighten you, Cecil. I know the manner
                        of man."
                    "I wish you could have seen him this morning," murmured
                        Penelope, thoroughly enjoying the unexpected situation. Her conscience was
                        not troubled by the prevarication.
                    "By Jove, I think it would be wise to send over and find out what he
                        valued the brute at," said Cecil, mopping his brow.
                    "Good. We 'll send Penelope to act as ambassador,"
                        said her ladyship. "She seems to be on friendly terms with the
                        enemy."
                    "To act as ambassador from Cowardice Court?" questioned
                        Penelope, loftily, yet with cutting significance. "No, I thank you.
                        I decline the honour. Besides," with a reflective frown,
                        "I don't believe it is diplomacy he 's
                        after."
                    "I say what the deuce do you suppose the confounded savage has in
                        mind?" exclaimed the duke. "I 've heard of the
                        way these cowboys settle their affairs. You don't imagine"
                        and he paused significantly.
                    "It looks like it's going to be a darather disagreeable
                        affair," said De Peyton sourly.
                    "Good heavens, what are we to do if he 
                        comes here with a lot desperadoes and begins to shoot?" cried Mrs.
                        Odwell, genuinely alarmed. "I 've read so much of these
                        awful mountains feuds."
                    "Don't be alarmed. Lord Bazelhurst will attend to the
                        gentleman," said Lady Evelyn blandly. His lordship's
                        monocle clattered down and the ice rattled sharply in his glass.
                    "Toto be sure," he agreed. "Don't be in
                        the least worried. I 'll attend to the upstart. What time
                        's he coming, Pen?"
                    A door banged noisily near by, and every one jumped as though a gun had been
                        fired. While the "ohs" were still struggling from their
                        lips, Hodder, the butler, came into the room, doing his best to retain his
                        composure under what seemed to be trying circumstances.
                    "What is it, Hodder?" demanded her ladyship.
                    "The cook, your ladyship. She's fallen downstairs and
                        broken her leg," announced Hodder. He did not betray it, but he
                        must have been tremendously surprised by the sigh of relief that went up on
                        all sides. Lord Bazelhurst went so far as to laugh.
                    "Ha, ha! is that all?"
                    
                    "Oh, dear, I 'm so glad!" cried Miss Folsom,
                        impulsively. "I was frightened half to death. It might have been
                        Mr."
                    "Don't be silly, Rose," said Lady Bazelhurst.
                        "Where is she, Hodder?"
                    "In the laundry, your ladyship. There are two fractures."
                    "By Jove, two legs instead of one, thenworse than I
                        thought," cried Bazelhurst, draining his glass.
                    "Send at once for a doctor, Hodder, and take her to her room. Is
                        n't it annoying," said her ladyship. "It
                        's so difficult to keep a cook in the mountains."
                    "Don't see how she can get away without legs,"
                        observed De Peyton.
                    "I 'll come with you, Hodder. Perhaps I can do something
                        for her," said Penelope, following the butler from the room.
                    "Don't take too many patients on your hads, my
                        dear," called the mistress, with a shrill laugh.
                    "Yes; remember to-morrow," added the duke. Then, suddenly:
                        "I believe I 'll lend a hand." He hurried after
                        Penelope, rather actively for him.
                    Lord Bazelhurst visited his wife's room later in the night, called
                        there by a more or  less peremptory summons.
                        Cecil had been taking time by the forelock in anticipation of
                        Shaw's descent in the morning and was inclined to jocundity.
                    "Cecil, what do you think of Penelope's attitude toward Mr.
                        Shaw?" she asked, turning away from the window which looked out
                        over the night in the direction of Shaw's place.
                    "I did n't know she had an attitude," replied he,
                        trying to focus his wavering gaze upon her.
                    "She meets him clandestinely and she supports him openly. Is
                        n't that an attitude, or are you too drunk to see it?"
                    "My dear, remember you are speaking of my sister," he said
                        with fine dignity but little discrimination. "Besides, I am not too
                        drunk. I do see it. It's a demmed annoying
                        attitude. She 's a traitor, un'stand me? A traito-tor. I
                        intend to speak to her about it."
                    "It is better that you should do it," said his wife.
                        "I am afraid I could not control my temper."
                    "Penelope's a disgracea nabsolute disgrace. How many legs
                        did Hodder say she 'dshe'd broken?"
                    
                    "Oh, you 're disgusting!" cried Lady Evelyn.
                        "Go to bed! I thought I could talk to you to-night, but I
                        can't. You scarcely can stand up."
                    "Now, Evelyn, you do me injustice. I 'm only holding to
                        this chair to keep it from moving'round the room. See that? Course
                        I c'n stan' up," he cried, triumphantly.
                    "I am utterly disgusted with you, Oh, for a man! A man with real
                        blood in his veins, a man who could do something besides eat and drink at my
                        cost. I pay your debts, clothe you, feed youhouse your ungrateful sisterand
                        what do I get in return? This!"
                    Lord Bazelhurst's eyes steadied beneath this unexpected assault, his
                        legs stiffened, his shoulders squared themselves in a pitiful attempt at
                        dignity.
                    "Lady Bazelhurst, youyou" and then he collapsed into the
                        chair, bursting into maudlin tears. She stood over by the dressing-table and
                        looked pitilessly upon the weak creature whose hiccoughing sobs filled the
                        room. Her colour was high, her breathing heavy. In some way it seemed as
                        though there was so much more she could have said had the circumstances been
                        different.
                    
                    There came a knock at the door, but she did not respond. Then the door opened
                        quietly and Penelope entered the room, resolutely, fearlessly. Evelyn turned
                        her eyes upon the intruder and stared for a moment.
                    "Did you knock?" she asked at last.
                    "Yes. You did not answer."
                    "Was n't that sufficient?"
                    "Not to-night, Evelyn. I came to have it out with you and Cecil.
                        Where is he?"
                    "There!"
                    "Asleep?" with a look of amazement.
                    "I hope not. I should dislike having to call the servants to carry
                        him to his room."
                    "I see. Poor old chap!" She went over and shook him by the
                        shoulder. He sat up and stared at her blankly through his drenched eyes.
                        Then, as if the occasion called for a supreme effort, he tried to rise,
                        ashamed that his sister should have found him in his present condition.
                        "Don't get up, Cecil. Wait a bit and I 'll go to
                        your room with you."
                    "What have you to say to me, Penelope?" demanded Evelyn, a
                        green light in her eyes.
                    
                    "I can wait. I prefer to have Cecilunderstand," she said,
                        bitterly.
                    "If it's about our affair with Shaw, it won't make
                        any difference whether Cecil understands or not. Has your friend asked you
                        to plead for him? Does he expect me to take him up on your account and have
                        him here?"
                    "I was jesting when I said he would come to-morrow," said
                        Penelope, ignoring the thrust and hurrying to her subject. "I could
                        n't go to sleep to-night if I neglected to tell you what I think of
                        the outrage this morning. You and Cecil had no right to order Tompkins to
                        shoot at Mr. Shaw. He is not a trespasser. Some one killed his dog to-day.
                        When he pursued the coward, a second shot was fired at him. He was wounded.
                        Do you call that fair fighting? Ambushed, shot from behind a tree. I
                        don't care what you and Cecil think about it, I consider it
                        despicable. Thank God, Cecil was not really to blame. It is about the only
                        thing I can say to my brother's credit."
                    Lady Bazelhurst was staring at her young sister-in-law with wide eyes. It was
                        the first time in all her petted, vain life that any one had called her to
                        account. She was,  at first, too deeply amazed
                        to resent the sharp attack.
                    "Penelope Drake!" was all she could say. Then the fury in
                        her soul began to search for an outlet. "How dare you? How dare
                        you?"
                    "I don't mean to hurt you. I am only telling you that your
                        way of treating this affair is a mistake. It can be rectified. You
                        don't want to be lawless; you don't understand what a
                        narrow escape from murder you have had. Evelyn, you owe reparation to Mr.
                        Shaw. He is"
                    "I understand why you take his side. You cheapen and degrade
                        yourself and you bring shame upon your brother and me by your disgraceful
                        affair with this ruffian. Don't look shocked! You meet him
                        secretly, I knowhow much farther you have gone with him I don't
                        know. It is enough that you"
                    "Stop! You shall not say such things to me!"
                    "You came in here to have it out with me. Well, we 'll have
                        it out. You think because you 're English, and all that, that you
                        are better than I. You show it in your every action; you turn up your nose
                        at  me because I am an American. Well, what if
                        I am? Where would you be if it were not for me? And where would he be? You 'd starve if it were not for me. You hang to
                        me like a leechyou sponge on me, you gorge yourself"
                    "That is enough, Evelyn. You have said all that is necessary. I
                        deserve it, too, for meddling in your affairs. It may satisfy you to know
                        that I have always despised you. Having confessed, I can only add that we
                        cannot live another hour under the same roof. You need not order me to go. I
                        shall do so of my own accordgladly." Penelope turned to the door.
                        She was as cold as ice.
                    "It is the first time you have ever done anything to please me. You
                        may go in the morning."
                    "I shall go to-night!"
                    "As you like. It is near morning. Where do you expect to go at this
                        hour of night?"
                    "I am not afraid of the night. Tomorrow I shall send over from the
                        village for my trunks." She paused near the door and then came back
                        to Cecil's side. "Good-bye, Cecil. I 'll write.
                        Good-bye." He looked up with a hazy smile.
                    
                    "G'night," he muttered thickly.
                    Without another word or so much as a glance at Lady Bazelhurst, Penelope
                        Drake went swiftly from the room. The big hall clock struck the half-hour
                        after eleven. Some onea womanwas laughing in the billiard-room below; the
                        click of the balls came to her ears like the snapping of angry teeth. She
                        did not hesitate; it was not in her nature. The room in which she had found
                        so much delight was now loathsome to her. With nervous fingers she threw the
                        small things she most cherished into a bag,her purse, her jewels, her little
                        treasures. Somehow it seemed to her as if she were hurrying to catch a night
                        train, that was all. With her own strong young arms she dragged the two huge
                        trunks from the closet. Half an hour later they were full and locked. Then
                        she looked about with a dry, mirthless smile.
                    "I wonder where I am to go?" she
                        murmured, half aloud. A momentary feeling of indecision attacked her. The
                        click of the balls had ceased, the clock had struck twelve. It was dark and
                        still, and the wind was crying in the trees.
                    
                    "She won't go," Lady Bazelhurst was saying to
                        herself, as she sat, narrow-eyed and hateful, in her window looking out into
                        the night. "Life is too easy here." The light from the
                        porch lanterns cast a feeble glow out beyond the porte-cochre and down the
                        drive. As she stared across the circle, the figure of a woman suddenly cut a
                        diametric line through it, and lost itself in the wall of blackness that
                        formed the circumference. Lady Evelyn started and stared unbelievingly into
                        the darkness, striving to penetrate it with her gaze. "It was
                        shePenelope," she cried, coming to her feet.
                        "She's really goneshe meant it." For many minutes
                        she peered out into the night, expecting to see the shadow returning. A
                        touch of anxious hope possessing her, she left the window and hurried down
                        the corridor to Penelope's room. What she found there was most
                        convincing. It was not a trick of the lanterns. The shadow had been real. It
                        must be confessed that the peevish heart of Lady Bazelhurst beat rather
                        rapidly as she hastened back to the window to peer anxiously out into the
                        sombre park with its hooting owls and chattering night-bugs. The mournful
                        yelp of a distant dog floated  across the black
                        valley. The watcher shuddered as she recalled stories of panthers that had
                        infested the great hills. A small feeling of shame and regret began to
                        develop with annoying insistence.
                    An hour dragged itself by before she arose petulantly, half terrified, half
                        annoyed in spite of herself. Her husband still was sitting in the big chair,
                        his face in his hands. His small, dejected figure appealed to her pity for
                        the first time in the two years of their association. She realized what her
                        temper had compelled her to say to him and to his sister; she saw the
                        insults that at least one of them had come to resent.
                    "I hope that foolish girl will come back," she found
                        herself saying, with a troubled look from the window. "Where can
                        the poor thing go? What will become of her? What will everyone say when this
                        becomes known?" she cried, with fresh selfishness. "II
                        should not have let her go like this."
                    Even as she reproached herself, a light broke in upon her understanding; a
                        thought whirled into her brain and a moment later a shrill, angry,
                        hysterical laugh came from her lips.
                    
                    "She knew where she could go! How simple I am. Shaw will welcome her
                        gladly. She's with him by this timehis doors have opened to her.
                        The little wretch! And I 've been trying so hard to pity
                        her!" She laughed again so shrilly that his lordship stirred and
                        then looked up at her stupefied, uncertain.
                    "Hullo," he grunted. "What time is it?"
                    "Oh, you 're awake, are you?" scornfully.
                    "Certainly. Have I been dozing? What's there to laugh at,
                        my dear?" he mumbled, arising very unsteadily.
                        "Where's Pen?"
                    "She 's gone. She 's left the house," she
                        said, recurring dread and anxiety in her voice. A glance at the darkness
                        outside brought back the growing shudders.
                    "Whatwhat d' ye mean?" demanded he, bracing up
                        with a splendid effort.
                    "She 's left the house, that 's all. We
                        quarrelled. I don't know where she's gone. Yes, I do know.
                        She 's gone to Shaw's for the night. She's with
                        him. I saw her going," she cried, striving between fear and anger.
                    "You 'veyou 've turned her out?" gasped
                        Lord Bazelhurst, numbly. "In the 
                        night? Good Lord, whywhy did you let her go?" He turned and rushed
                        toward the door, tears springing to his eyes. He was sobering now and the
                        tears were wrenched from his hurt pride. "How long ago?"
                    "An hour or more. She went of her own accord. You'll find
                        her at Shaw's," said her ladyship harshly. She hated to
                        admit that she was to blame. But as her husband left the room, banging the
                        door after him, she caught her breath several times in a futile effort to
                        stay the sobs, and then broke down and cried, a very much abused young
                        woman. She hated everybody and everything.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    IN WHICH DAN CUPID TRESPASSES
                    LADY BAZELHURST was right. Penelope was making her way through the blackest
                        of nights toward the home of Randolph Shaw. In deciding upon this step,
                        after long deliberation, she had said to herself: "Randolph Shaw is
                        the only real man I 've seen since coming to the mountains. I can
                        trust him to help me to-night."
                    It was fully three miles to Shaw's place, most of the way over the
                        narrow valley road. She knew she would encounter but few tortuous places.
                        The last half-mile, however, was steep, rugged, and unfamiliar to her. She
                        had ventured no nearer to his home than Renwood's deserted cottage,
                        lying above and to the south of the road, almost at the base of the long
                        hill on whose side Shaw had built his big home. To climb that hill was  on easy task in daylight; at midnight, with
                        the stars obscured by clouds and tree-tops, there was something perilously
                        uncertain in the prospect.
                    "Only the knowledge that patience and courage eventually would bring
                        her to the end made the journey possible. Time would lead her to the haven;
                        care would make the road a friend; a stout heart was her best ally. Strenght
                        of limb and strength of purpose she had, in use and in reserve. No power
                        could have made her turn back willingly. Her anxious eyes were set ahead in
                        the blackness; her runaway feet were eager in obedience to her will.
                    "Why could n't I have put it off until morning?"
                        she was saying to herself as she passed down the gravelled drive and
                        advanced to meet the wall of trees that frowned blackly in her face.
                        "What will he think? What will he say? Oh, he 'll think I
                        'm such a silly, romantic fool. No, he won't. He
                        'll understand. He 'll help me on to Plattsburg to-morrow.
                        But will he think I 've done this for effect? Won't he
                        think I 'm actually throwing myself at his head? No, I
                        can't turn back. I 'd rather die than go back to that
                        house. It won't matter what  he
                        thinks; I 'll be away from all of it tomorrow. I 'll be
                        out of his life and I won't care what he thinks. England! Goodness,
                        what 's that?" She had turned a bend in the drive and just
                        ahead there was a light. A sigh of relief followed the question. It came
                        from the lantern which hung to a stake in the road where the new stone
                        gate-posts were being built by workmen from town. Bazelhurst Villa was a
                        quarter of a mile, through the park, behind her; the forest was ahead.
                    At the gate she stopped between the half-finished stone posts and looked
                        ahead with the first shiver of dismay. Her limbs seemed ready to collapse.
                        The flush of anger and excitement left her face; a white, desolate look came
                        in its stead. Her eyes grew wide and she blinked her lashes with an awed
                        uncertainty that boded ill for the stability of her adventure. An owl hooted
                        in mournful cadence close by and she felt that her hair was going straight
                        on end. The tense fingers of one hand gripped the handle of the
                        travelling-bag while the other went spasmodically to her heart.
                    "Oh!" she gasped, moving over quickly to the stake on which
                        the lantern hung. The wind was rushing through the tree-tops with  increased fervour; the air was cool and wet
                        with the signs of rain; a swirl of dust flew up into her face; the swish of
                        leaves sounded like the splashing of water in the air. Holding her heart for
                        minutes, she at last regained some of the lost composure. A hysterical laugh
                        fell from her lips. "What a goose! It was an owl and I 've
                        heard hundreds of them up here. Still, they do sound
                        different outside of one's own room. It's going to rain.
                        What wretched luck! Dear me, I can't stand here all night. How
                        black it is ahead there. Oooh! Really, now, it does seem a bit terrifying.
                        If I only had a lantern it would n't be so" her gaze fell
                        upon the labourers' lantern that clattered aimlessly, uselessly
                        against the stake. An instant later she had jerked it from its fastenings
                        with a cry of joy. "I 'll send it back when they go for my
                        trunks. What luck!"
                    Without a second's hesitation she started off briskly into the
                        woodland road, striding along with the splendid swing of the healthy
                        Englishwoman who has not been trained to dawdle. Her walking-skirt gave free
                        play to her limbs; she was far past the wellknown "line in the
                        road" before she paused to take a full breath and to recapitulate.
                             Her heart beat faster and the sudden glow
                        in her cheek was not from the exercise. Somehow, out there alone in the
                        world, the most amazing feeling of tenderness sped on ahead to Randolph
                        Shaw. She tried to put it from her, but it grew and grew. Then she blushed
                        deep within herself and her eyes grew sweet with the memory of those stolen,
                        reprehensible hours along the frontier. Something within her breast cried
                        out for those shining, gone-by moments, something seemed to close down on
                        her throat, something flooded her eyes with a softness that rolled up from
                        her entire being. Their line! Their insurmountable barrier! An absurd yet
                        ineffable longing to fall down and kiss that line came over her with
                        compelling force.
                    Her head grew light with the thought of those moments when their horses stood
                        with, muzzles together as if kissing by proxythe flush grew deeper, though
                        her blood went cold and she trembled.
                    A pitiful confusion seized her, an inexplicable timidity crept into her
                        heart, replacing the bold assurance that had been recklessly carrying her on
                        to him. It was as though some one had whispered the truth into her ear and
                        she was beginning to believe.
                    
                    From that moment her courage began to fail. The glow from her lantern was a
                        menace instead of a help. A sweet timorousness enveloped her and something
                        tigledshe knew not what.
                    Spattering raindrops whizzed in her face, ominous forerunners from the inky
                        sky. The wind was whistling with shrill glee in the tree-tops and the
                        tree-tops tried to flee before it. A mile and a half lay between her and the
                        big cottage on the hillsidethe most arduous part of the journey by far. She
                        walked and ran as though pursued, scudding over the road with a swiftness
                        that would have amazed another, but which seemed the essence of slowness to
                        her. Thoughts of robbers, tramps, wild beasts, assailed her with
                        intermittent terrors, but all served to diminish the feeling of shyness that
                        had been interfering with her determination.
                    Past Renwood's cottage she sped, shuddering as she recognized the
                        stone steps and path that ran up the hillside to the haunted house. Ghosts,
                        witches, hobgoblins fell into the procession of pursuers, cheered on by the
                        shrieking wind that grew more noisome as her feet carried her higher up the
                        mountain. Now she was on new ground. She had never  before explored so far as this. The hill was steep and the road
                        had black abysses out beyond its edges...
                    She was breathless, half dead from fatigue and terror when at last her feet
                        stumbled up the broad steps leading to his porch. Trembling, she sank into
                        the rustic bench that stood against the wall. The lantern clattered to her
                        feet, and the bag with her jewels, her letter of credit, and her curling
                        irons slid to the floor behind the bench. Here was his home! What cared she
                        for the storm?
                    Even as she lay there gasping for breath, her eyes on the shadowy moon that
                        was breaking its way through the clouds, three men raced from the stables at
                        Bazelhurst Villa bent on finding the mad young person who had fled the
                        place. Scarcely knowing what direction he took, Lord Bazelhurst led the way,
                        followed by the duke and the count, all of them supplied with carriage
                        lamps, which, at any other time, would have been sickening in their
                        obtrusiveness. Except for Lady Evelyn, the rest of the house slept the sleep
                        of ease.
                    Gradually Penelope recovered from the effects of the mad race up the hill.
                        The sputtering flame in the lantern called her 
                        into action. Clutching it from the floor of the porch, she softly began a
                        tour of inspection, first looking at her watch to find that it was the
                        unholy hour of two! Had some one yelled boo! she would have swooned, so
                        tense was every nerve. Now that she was here, what was she to do? Her heart
                        came to her mouth, her hand shook, but not with fear; a nervous smile tried
                        to wreak disaster to the concern in her eyes.
                    The house was dark and still. No one was stirring. The porch was littered
                        with rugs and cushions, while on a small table near the end stood a
                        decanter, a siphon, and two glasses. Two? He had said he was alone except
                        for the housekeeper and the servants. A visitor, then. This was not what she
                        had expected. Her heart sank. It would be hard to face the master of the
                        house, buta stranger? Cigarette stubs met her bewildered, troubled gazemany
                        of them. Deduction was easy out there in the lonely night. It was easy to
                        see that Shaw and his companion sat up so late that the servants had gone to
                        bed.
                    Distractedly she looked about for means of shelter on the porch until
                        daylight could abet her in the flight to the village beyond.  The storm was sure to come at no far distant
                        time. She knew and feared the violence of the mountain rains.
                    "By all that 's holy," came in a man's
                        voice, low-toned and uncertain; "it is
                        n't a dream, after all!"
                    She turned like a flash, with a startled exclamation and an instinctive
                        movement as if to shield herself from unbidden gaze. Her lips parted and her
                        heart pounded like a hammer. Standing in the doorway was Randolph Shaw, his
                        figure looming up like a monstrous, wavering genie in the uncertain light
                        from the shaking lantern. His right hand was to his brow and his eyes were
                        wide with incredulous joy. She noticed that the left sleeve of his dinner
                        jacket hung limp, and that the arm was in a white sling beneath.
                    "Is it really you?" he cried, his hand going instinctively
                        to his watch-pocket as if doubting that it was night instead of morning.
                    "I 'veI 've run away from them," she
                        stammered. "It 's two o'clockdon't look!
                        Oh, I 'm so sorry nowwhy did I"
                    "You ran away?" he exclaimed, coming toward her.
                        "Oh, it can't be a dream. 
                        You are there, are n't you?" She was a pitiable object as
                        she stood there, powerless to retreat, shaking like a leaf. He took her by
                        the shoulder. "Yesit is you. Good Lord, what does
                        it mean? What has happened? How did you come here? Are you alone?"
                    "Utterly, miserably alone. Oh, Mr. Shaw!" she cried
                        despairingly. "You will understand,
                        won't you?"
                    "Never! Never as long as I live. It is beyond comprehension. The
                        wonderful part of it all is that I was sitting in there dreaming of youyes,
                        I was. I heard some one out here, investigated and found youyou, of all people in the world. And I was dreaming that I held
                        you in my arms. Yes, I was! I was dreaming it"
                    "And I awoke to find younot in my arms, not in Bazelhurst Villa, but
                        herehere on my porch."
                    "Like a thief in the night," she murmured. "What
                            do you think of me?"
                    "Shall I tell youreally?" he cried. The light in his eyes
                        drove her back a step or two, panic in her heart.
                    "Nno, nonot now!" she gasped, 
                        
                            "'Poor old Bonaparte!' was
                                all he said in reply"
                        
                         but a great wave of exaltation swept through
                        her being. He turned and walked away, too dazed to speak. Without knowing
                        it, she followed with hesitating steps. At the edge of the porch he paused
                        and looked into the darkness.
                    "By Jove, I must be dreaming," she heard
                        him mutter.
                    "No, you are not," she declared desperately. "I
                            am here. I ask your protection for the night. I am
                        going awayto Englandto-morrow. I could n't stay there I just could
                        n't. I 'm sorry I came hereI 'm"
                    "Thank heaven, you did come," he
                        exclaimed, turning to her joyously. "You are like a fairythe fairy
                        princess come true. It's unbelievable! Butbut what was it you said
                        about england?" he concluded, suddenly sober.
                    "I am gogoing home. There 's no place else. I
                        can't live with her," she said, a bit tremulously.
                    "To England? At once? Your father will he"
                    "My father? I have no father. Oh!" with a sudden start. Her
                        eyes met his in a helpless stare. "I never thought. My  home was at Bazelhurst Castletheir home. I
                        can't go there. Good heavens, what am I to do?"
                    A long time afterward she recalled his exultant exclamation, checked at its
                        outset, recalled it with a perfect sense of understanding. With rare good
                        taste he subdued whatever it was that might have struggled for expression
                        and simply extended his right hand to relieve her of the lantern.
                    "We never have been enemies, Miss Drake," he said,
                        controlling his voice admirably. "But had we been so up to this
                        very instant, I am sure I 'd surrender now. I don't know
                        what has happened at the Villa. It does n't matter. You are here to
                        ask my protection and my help. I am at your service, my home is yours, my
                        right hand also. You are tired and wet andnervous. Won't you come
                        inside? I 'll get a light in a jiffy and Mrs. Ulrich, my
                        housekeeper, shall be with you as soon as I can rout her out. Come in,
                        please." She held back doubtfully, a troubled, uncertain look in
                        her eyes.
                    "You will understand, won't
                        you?" she asked simply.
                    "And no questions asked," he said from  the doorway. Still she held back, her gaze going involuntarily
                        to the glasses on the table. He interpreted the look of inquiry.
                        "There were two of us. The doctor was here picking out the shot,
                        that's all. He 's gone. It 's all right. Wait
                        here and I 'll get a light." The flame in her lantern
                        suddenly ended its feeble life.
                    She stood inside his doorway and heard him shuffle across the floor in search
                        of the lamps.
                    "Dark as Egypt, eh?" he called out from the opposite side
                        of the room.
                    "Not as dark as the forest, Mr. Shaw."
                    "Good heavens, what a time you must have had. All alone, were
                        you?"
                    "Of course. I was not eloping."
                    "I beg your pardon."
                    "Where were you sitting when I came up?"
                    "Herein the dark. I was waiting for the storm to come and dozed
                        away, I daresay. I love a storm, don't you?"
                    "Yes, if I 'm indoors. Ah!" He had struck a match
                        and was lighting the wick of a lamp beside the huge fireplace. "I
                        suppose you think I 'm perfectly crazy. I 'm
                        horrid."
                    
                    "Not at all. Sit down here on the couch, please. More cheerful, eh?
                        Good Lord, listen to the wind. You got here just in time. Now, if you
                        'll excuse me, I 'll have Mrs. Ulrich down in a minute.
                        She 'll take good care of you. And I 'll make you a nice
                        hot drink, too. You need it." In the door of the big living-room he
                        turned to her, a look of extreme doubt in his eyes. "By Jove, I bet
                        I do wake up. It can't be true." She
                        laughed plaintively and shook her head in humble selfabasement.
                        "Don't be lonesome. I 'll be back in a
                        minute."
                    "Don't hurry," she murmured apologetically. Then
                        she settled back limply in the wide couch and inspected the room, his
                        footsteps noisily clattering down the long hallway to the left. She saw,
                        with some misgiving, that it was purely a man's habitation. Shaw
                        doubtless had built and furnished the big cottage without woman as a
                        consideration. The room was large, comfortable, solid; there was not a
                        suggestion of femininity in ithigh or lowexcept the general air of
                        cleanliness. The furniture was rough-hewn and built for use, not
                        ornamentation; the walls were hung with English prints, antlers,  mementoes of the hunt and the field of sport;
                        the floor was covered with skins and great "carpet rag"
                        rugs. The whole aspect was so distinctly mannish that her heart fluttered
                        ridiculously in its loneliness. Her cogitations were running seriously
                        toward riot when he came hurriedly down the hall and into her presence.
                    "She 'll be down presently. In fact, so will the cook and
                        the housemaid. Gad, Miss Drake, they were so afraid of the storm that all of
                        them piled into Mrs. Ulrich's room. I wonder at your courage in
                        facing the symptoms outdoors. Now, I 'll fix you a drink. Take off
                        your hatbe comfortable. Cigarette? Good! Here's my sideboard. See?
                        It 's a nuisance, this having only one arm in commission; affects
                        my style as a barkeep. Don't stir; I 'll be able"
                    "Let me help you. I mean, please don't go to so much
                        trouble. Really I want nothing but a place to sleep to-night. This couch
                        will dohonestly. And some one to call me at daybreak, so that I may be on my
                        way." He looked at her and laughed quizzically. "Oh, I
                        'm in earnest, Mr. Shaw. I would n't have stopped here if
                        it had n't been for the storm."
                    
                    "Come, now, Miss Drake, you spoil the fairy tale. You did intend to come here. It was the only place for you to goand
                        I'm glad of it. My only regret is that the house is n't
                        filled with chaperons."
                    "Why?" she demanded with a guilty start.
                    "Because I could then say to you all the things that are in my
                        heartaye, that are almost bursting from my lips. II can't say them
                        now, you know," he said, and she understood his delicacy. For some
                        minutes she sat in silence watching him as he clumsily mixed the drinks and
                        put the water over the alcohol blaze. Suddenly he turned to her with
                        something like alarm in his voice. "By George, you don't
                        suppose they'll pursue you?"
                    "Oh, would n't that be jolly? It would be like the real
                        story-bookthe fairy and the ogres and all that. But," dubiously,
                        "I 'm sorely afraid they consider me rubbish.
                        Still" looking up encouragingly"my brother would try to
                        find me if heif he knew that I was gone."
                    To her surprise, he whistled softly and permitted a frown of anxiety to creep
                        over his face. "I had n't thought of that," he
                             observed reflectively. Then he seemed to
                        throw off the momentary symptoms of uneasiness, adding, with a laugh:
                        "I daresay nothing will happen. The storm would put a stop to all
                        idea of pursuit."
                    "Let them pursue," she said, a stubborn light in her eyes.
                        "I am my own mistress, Mr. Shaw. They can't take me, willy
                        nilly, as if I were a child, you know."
                    "That's quite true. You don't
                        understand," he said slowly, his back to her.
                    "You mean the law? Is it different from ours?"
                    "Not that. Theersituation. You see, they might think it a trifle odd
                        if they found you herewith me. Don't you understand?" He
                        turned to her with a very serious expression. She started and sat bolt
                        upright to stare at him comprehensively.
                    "You meanitit is n't quiteer"
                    "Regular, perhaps," he supplied. "Please keep your
                        seat! I 'm not the censor; I 'm not even an opinion.
                        Believe me, Miss Drake, my only thought was and is for your good."
                    "I see. They would believe evil of me 
                        if they knew I had come to you," she mused, turning quite cold.
                    "I know the kind of people your sister-in-law has at her place, Miss
                        Drake. Their sort can see but one motive in anything. You know them, too, I
                        daresay."
                    "Yes, I know them," she said uneasily. "Good
                        heavens, what a fool I 've been," she added, starting to
                        her feet. "I might have known they 'll say all sorts of
                        terrible things. They must not find me here. Mr. Shaw, I 'mI am so
                        ashamedI wonder what you are thinking of me." Her lip trembled and
                        there was such a pleading look in her dark eyes that he controlled himself
                        with difficulty. It was only by imposing the severest restraint upon his
                        susceptibilities that he was able to approach her calmly.
                    "I can't tell you nownot herewhat I am thinking. It is
                        n't the place. Maybe maybe you can read my thought, PenelMiss
                        Drake. Look up, please. Can't you readoh, there nowI beg your
                        pardon! You come to me for protection and I well, don't be too hard
                        on me just yet. I 'll find the time and place to tell
                        you." He drew away almost as his hand was ready to clasp hersall
                        because her sweet eyes met  his trustinglyhe
                        could have swornlovingly.
                    "Just now I am a poor little reprobate," she sighed ever so
                        miserably. "You are very good. I 'll not forget."
                    "I 'll not permit you to forget," he said eagerly.
                    "Is n't the housekeeper a long time in coming?"
                        she asked quickly. He laughed contentedly.
                    "We've no reason to worry about her. It's the
                        pursuers from Bazelhurst that should trouble us. Won't you tell me
                        the whole story?" And she told him everything, sitting there beside
                        him with a hot drink in her hand and a growing shame in her heart. It was
                        dawning upon her with alarming force that she was exposing a hitherto
                        unknown incentive. It was not a comfortable awakening. "And you
                        champion me to that extent?" he cried joyously. She nodded bravely
                        and went on.
                    "So here I am," she said in conclusion.
                    "I really could not have walked to Ridgely to-night, could
                        I?"
                    "I should say not."
                    "And there was really nowhere else to come but here?"
                        dubiously.
                    
                    "See that light over thereup the mountain?" he asked,
                        leading her to a window. "Old man Grimes and his wife live up
                        there. They keep a light burning all night to scare Renwood's ghost
                        away. By Jove, the storm will be upon us in a minute. I thought it had blown
                        around us." The roll of thunder came up the valley. "Thank
                        heaven, you 're safe indoors. Let them pursue if they like. I
                        'll hide you if they come, and the servants are
                        close-mouthed."
                    "I don't like the way you put it, Mr. Shaw."
                    "Hullo, hullothe house," came a shout from the wind-ridden
                        night outside. Two hearts inside stopped beating for a second or two. She
                        caught her breath sharply as she clasped his arm.
                    "They are after me!" she gasped.
                    "They must not find you here. Really, Miss Drake, I mean it. They
                        would n't understand. Come with me. Go down this hall quickly. It
                        leads to the garden back of the house. There 's a gun-room at the
                        end of the hall. Go in there, to your right. Here, take this! It 's
                        an electric saddle-lantern. I 'll head these fellows off. They
                        shan't find you. Don't be alarmed."
                    
                    She sped down the narrow hall and he, taking time to slip into a long
                        dressing-coat, stepped out upon the porch in response to the now prolonged
                        and impatient shouts.
                    "Who 's there?" he shouted. The light from the
                        windows revealed several horsemen in the roadway.
                    "Friends," came back through the wind.
                    "Let us in out of the storm. It 's a terror."
                    "I don't know you." There was a shout of laughter
                        and some profanity.
                    "Oh, yes you do, Mr. Shaw. Open up and let us in. It's Dave
                        Rank and Ed Hunter. We can't make the cabin before the
                        rain." Shaw could see their faces now and then by the flashes of
                        lightning and he recognized the two woodsmen, who doubtless had been
                        visiting sweethearts up toward Ridgely.
                    "Take your horses to the stable, boys, and come in," he
                        called, laughing heartily. Then he hurried off to the gun-room. He passed
                        Mrs. Ulrich coming downstairs yawning prodigiously; he called to her to wait
                        for him in the library.
                    There was no one in the gun-room; the door leading to the back porch was
                        open.  With an exclamation he leaped outside
                        and looked about him.
                    "Good heavens!" he cried, staggering back.
                    Far off in the night, a hundred yards or more up the road, leading to
                        Grimes' cabin he saw the wobbling, uncertain flicker of a light
                        wending its way like a will-o'-the-wisp through the night. Without
                        a moment's hesitation and with something strangely like an oath, he
                        rushed into the house, almost upsetting the housekeeper in his haste.
                    "Visitors outside. Make 'em comfortable. Back
                        soon," he jerked out as he changed his coat with small respect for
                        his injured arm. Then he clutched a couple of raincoats from the rack and
                        flew out of the back door like a man suddenly gone mad.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    IN WHICH A GHOST TRESPASSES
                    THE impulse which drove Penelope out for the second time that night may be
                        readily appreciated. Its foundation was fear; its subordinate emotions were
                        shame, self-pity and consciousness of her real feeling toward the man of the
                        house. The true spirit of womanhood revolted with its usual waywardness.
                    She was flying down the stony road, some distance from the cottage, in the
                        very face of the coming tornado, her heart beating like a trip-hammer, her
                        eyes bent on the little light up the mountain-side, before it occurred to
                        her that this last flight was not only senseless but perilous. She even
                        laughed at herself for a fool as she recalled the tell-tale handbag on the
                        porch and the damning presence of a Bazelhurst lantern in the hallway.
                    The storm which had been raging farther  down
                        the valley was at last whirling up to the hill-tops, long delayed as if in
                        gleeful anticipation of catching her alone and unprotected. The little
                        electric saddle-lamp that she carried gave out a feeble glow, scarce opening
                        the way in the darkness more than ten feet ahead. Rough and irksome was the
                        road, most stubborn the wall of wind. The second threat of the storm was
                        more terrifying than the first; at any instant it was likely to break forth
                        in all its slashing furyand she knew not whither she went.
                    Even as she lost heart and was ready to turn wildly back in an effort to
                        reach Shaw's home before the deluge, the lightning flashes revealed
                        to her the presence of a dwelling just off the road not two hundred feet
                        ahead. She stumbled forward, crying like a frightened child. There were no
                        lights. The house looked dark, bleak, unfriendly. Farther up the hillside
                        still gleamed the little light that was meant to keep Renwood's
                        ghost from disturbing the slumbers of old man Grimes and his wife. She could
                        not reach that light, that much she knew. Her feet were like hundredweights,
                        her limbs almost devoid of power; Grimes' hut appeared to be a
                        couple of miles away.  With a last, breathless
                        effort, she turned off the road and floundered through weeds and brush until
                        she came to what proved to be the rear of the darkened house. Long, low,
                        rangy it reached off into the shadows, chilling in its loneliness. There was
                        not time left for her to climb the flight of steps and pound on the back
                        door. The rain was swishing in the trees with a hiss that forbade delay.
                    She threw herself, panting and terrorstricken, into the cave-like opening
                        under the porch, her knees giving way after the supreme effort. The great
                        storm broke as she crouched far back against the wall; her hands over her
                        ears, her eyes tightly closed. She was safe from wind and rain, but not from
                        the sounds of that awful conflict. The lantern lay at her feet, sending its
                        ray out into the storm with the senseless fidelity of a beacon light.
                    "Penelope!" came a voice through the storm, and a second
                        later a man plunged into the recess, crashing against the wall beside her.
                        Something told her who it was, even before he dropped beside her and threw
                        his strong arm about her shoulders. The sound of the storm died away as she
                        buried her face on his shoulder and shivered so mightily that he was
                        alarmed. With her  face burning, her blood
                        tingling, she lay there and wondered if the throbbing of her heart were not
                        about to kill her.
                    He was crying something into her earwild, incoherent words that seemed to
                        have the power to quiet the storm. And she was respondingshe knew that eager
                        words were falling from her lips, but she never knew what they
                        wereresponding with a fervour that was overwhelming her with joy. Lips met
                        again and again and there was no thought of the night, of the feud, the
                        escapade, the Renwood ghostor of aught save the two warm living human bodies
                        that had found each other.
                    The storm, swerving with the capricious mountain winds, suddenly swept their
                        refuge with sheets of water. Randolph Shaw threw the raincoats over his
                        companion and both laughed hysterically at their plight, suddenly
                        remembered.
                    "We can't stay here," he shouted.
                    "We can't go out into it," she cried.
                        "Where are we?"
                    "Renwood's," he called back. Their position was
                        untenable. He was drenched; the raincoats protected her as she crouched back
                        into the most remote corner. Looking  about,
                        he discovered a small door leading to the cellar. It opened the instant he
                        touched the latch. "Come, quick," he cried, lifting her to
                        her feet. "In herestoop! I have the light. This is the cellar. I
                        'll have to break down a door leading to the upper part of the
                        house, but that will not be difficult. Here's an axe or two. Good
                        Lord, I 'm soaked!"
                    "Whewhere are we going?" she gasped, as he drew her across
                        the earthern floor.
                    "Upstairs. It 's comfortable up there." They were
                        at the foot of the narrow stairway. She held back.
                    "Never! It 's thethe haunted house! I
                        can'tRandolph."
                    "Pooh! Don't be afraid. I 'm with you,
                        dearest."
                    "I know," she gulped. "But you have only one arm.
                        Oh, I can't!"
                    "It 's all nonsense about ghosts. I 've slept here
                        twenty times, Penelope. People have seen my light and my shadow, that
                        's all. I 'm a pretty substantial ghost."
                    "Oh, dear! What a disappointment. And there are no spooks? Not even
                        Mrs. Renwood?"
                    
                    "Of course she may come back, dear, but you 'd hardly
                        expect a respectable lady spook to visit the place with me stopping here.
                        Even ghosts have regard for conventionalities. She could
                            n't"
                    "How much more respectable than I," Penelope murmured
                        plaintively.
                    "Forgive me," he implored.
                    "I wouldonly you are so wet."
                    The door above was locked, but Shaw swung the axe so vigorously that any but
                        a very strong-nerved ghost must have been frightened to death once more.
                    "It 's my house, you know," he explained from the
                        top step. "There we are! Come up, Penelope. The fort is
                        yours."
                    She followed him into the hall above. In silence they walked along the bare
                        floors through empty rooms until at last he opened a door in what proved to
                        be the left wing. To her surprise, this room was comfortably furnished.
                        There were ashes in the big fireplace and there were lamps which had been
                        used recentlyfor they were filled with oil.
                    "Here's where I read sometimes," he explained.
                        "I have slept on that couch. Last winter I came up here to hunt. My
                        cottage was n't finished, so I stayed here.  I 'll confess I 've heard strange soundsnow,
                        don't shiver! Once or twice I 've been a bit nervous, but
                        I 'm still alive, you see." He lighted the wicks in the
                        two big lamps while she looked on with the chills creeping up and down her
                        back. "I 'll have a bully fire in the fireplace in just a
                        minute."
                    "Let me help you," she suggested, coming quite close to him
                        with uneasy glances over her shoulders.
                    Ten minutes later they were sitting before a roaring fire, quite content even
                        though there was a suggestion of amazed ghosts lurking in the hallway behind
                        them. No doubt old man Grimes and his wife, if they awoke in the course of
                        the night, groaned deep prayers in response to the bright light from the
                        windows of the haunted house. Shaw and Penelope smiled securely as they
                        listened to the howling storm outside.
                    "Well, this is trespassing," she said,
                        beaming a happy smile upon him.
                    "I shall be obliged to drive you out, alas," he said
                        reflectively. "Do you recall my vow? As long as you are a
                        Bazelhurst, I must perforce eject you."
                    "Not to-night!" she cried in mock dismay.
                    
                    "But, as an alternative, you 'll not be a Bazelhurst
                        long," he went on eagerly, suddenly taking her hands into his,
                        forgetful of the wounded left. "I 'm going to try
                        trespassing myself. To-morrow I 'm going to see your brother. It
                        's regular, you know. I 'm going to tell the head of your
                        clan that you are coming over to Shaw, heart and hand."
                    "Oh!" she exclaimed. "Youyouno, no! You must not
                        do that!"
                    "But, my dear, you are going to marry
                        me."
                    "YesIsuppose so," she murmured helplessly. "That
                        is n't what I meant. I mean, it is n't necessary to ask
                        Cecil. Ask me; I 'll consent for him."
                    Half an hour passed. Then he went to the window and looked out into the
                        storm.
                    "You must lie down and get some sleep,"
                        he insisted, coming back to her. "The storm's letting up,
                        but we can't leave here for quite a while. I 'll sit up
                        and watch. I 'm too happy to sleep." She protested, but
                        her heavy eyes were his allies. Soon he sat alone before the fire; she slept
                        sound on the broad couch in the corner, a steamer rug across her knees. A
                        contented smile curved  his lips as he gazed
                        reflectively into the flames. He was not thinking of Mrs. Renwood's
                        amiable ghost.
                    How long she had been asleep, Penelope did not know. She awoke with a start,
                        her flesh creeping. A nameless dread came over her; she felt that she was
                        utterly alone and surrounded by horrors. It was a full minute a sickening
                        hour, it seemedbefore she realized that she was in the room with the man she
                        loved. Her frightened eyes caught sight of him lying back in the chair
                        before the dying fire in the chimney place. The lights were low, the shadows
                        gaunt and chill.
                    A terrified exclamation started to her lips. Her ears again caught the sound
                        of some one moving in the housesome alien visitor. There was no mistaking
                        the sound the distant, sepulchral laugh and the shuffling of feet, almost at
                        the edge of the couch it seemed.
                    "Randolph!" she whispered hoarsely. The man in the chair
                        did not move. She threw off the blanket and came to a sitting posture on the
                        side of the couch, her fingers clutching the covering with tense horror.
                        Again the soft, rumbling laugh and the sound of footsteps on the stairway.
                        Like  a flash she sped across the room and
                        clutched frantically at Randolph's shoulders. He awoke with an
                        exclamation, staring bewildered into the horrified face above.
                    "Thethe ghost!" she gasped, her eyes glued upon the hall
                        door. He leaped to his feet and threw his arms about her.
                    "You 've had a bad dream," he said. "What
                        a breast I was to fall asleep. Lord, you 're frightened half out of
                        your wits. Don't tremble so, dearest. There 's no ghost.
                        Every one knows"
                    "Listenlisten!" she whispered. Together they stood
                        motionless, almost breathless before the fire, the glow from which threw
                        their shadows across the room to meet the mysterious invader.
                    "Good Lord," he muttered, unwilling to believe his ears.
                        "There is some one in the house. I 'veI
                        've heared sounds here before, but not like these."
                        Distinctly to their startled ears came the low, subdued murmur of a human
                        voice and then unmistakable moans from the very depth of the earthfrom the
                        grave, it seemed.
                    "Do you hear?" she whispered. "Oh, this dreadful
                        place! Take me away, Randolph, dear,"
                    
                    "Don't be afraid," he said, drawing her close.
                        "There 's nothing supernatural about those sounds. They
                        come from lips as much alive as ours. I 'll investigate."
                        He grabbed the heavy poker from the chimney corner, and started toward the
                        door. She followed close behind, his assurance restoring in a measure the
                        courage that had temporarily deserted her.
                    In the hallway they paused to look out over the broad porch. The storm had
                        died away, sighing its own requiem in the misty tree-tops. Dawn was not far
                        away. A thick fog was rising to meet the first glance of day. In surprise
                        Shaw looked at his watch, her face at his shoulder. It was after five
                        o'clock.
                    "Ghosts turn in at midnight, dear," he said with a cheerful
                        smile. "They don't keep such hours as these."
                    "But who can it be? There are no tramps in the mountains,"
                        she protested, glancing over her shoulder apprehensively.
                    "Listen! By Jove, that voice came from the cellar."
                    "And the lock is broken," she exclaimed. "But how
                        silly of me! Ghosts don't stop for locks."
                    "I 'll drop the bolts just the same," he  said, as they hurried down the hallway. At
                        the back stairs they stopped and listened for many minutes. Not a sound came
                        up to them from below. Softly he closed the door and lowered two heavy bars
                        into place. "If there 's any one down there they probably
                        think they 've heard spooks trotting around up here."
                    "Really, it 's quite thrilling, is n't
                        it?" she whispered, in her excitement.
                    "In any event, we 're obliged to remain under cover until
                        they depart," he said thoughtfully. "We can't be
                        seen here, dearest."
                    "No," she murmured, "not even though it is our house."
                    They returned to the big room as softly as mice and he left her a moment
                        later to close the heavy window shutters on the porch. When he returned
                        there was a grim smile on his face and his voice shook a little as he spoke.
                    "I 've heard the voices again. They came from the laundry,
                        I think. The Renwoods were downright Yankees, Penelope; I will swear that
                        these voices are amazingly English."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    IN WHICH THE AUTHOR TRESPASSES
                    THIS narrative has quite as much to do with the Bazelhurst side of the
                        controversy as it has with Shaw's. It is therefore but fair that
                        the heroic invasion by Lord Cecil should receive equal consideration from
                        the historian. Shaw's conquest of one member of the force opposing
                        him was scarcely the result of bravery; on the other hand Lord
                        Cecil's dash into the enemy's country was the very acme of
                        intrepidity. Shaw had victory fairly thrust upon him; Lord Bazelhurst had a
                        thousand obstacles to overcome before he could even so much as stand face to
                        face with the enemy. Hence the expedition that started off in the wake of
                        the deserter deserves more than passing mention.
                    Down the drive and out into the mountain road clattered the three horsemen.
                        Lady  Bazelhurst, watching at the window
                        casement, almost swooned with amazement at the sight of them. The capes of
                        their mackintoshes seemed to flaunt a satirical farewell in her face; their
                        owners, following the light of the carriage lamps, swept from view around a
                        bend in the road.
                    His lordship had met the duke in the hall, some distance from that
                        nobleman's room, and, without observing Barminster's
                        apparent confusion, commanded him to join in the pursuit. Barminster
                        explained that he was going to see how the cook was resting; however, he
                        would go much farther to be of service to the runaway sister of his host.
                    "She's broken-hearted," half sobbed the brother.
                    "Yes," agreed the duke; "and what's a
                        broken leg to a broken heart? Penelope's heart, at that. Demme, I
                        can't find the cook's room, anyway."
                    "It's in the servants' wing," said Cecil,
                        anxious to be off.
                    "To be sure. Stupid ass I am. I say, old chap, here's
                        Deveaux's door. Let's rout him out. We'll need
                        some one to hold the horses if we have to force our way into Shaw's
                        house."
                    
                    
                        "'Good heaven, Randolph, go to him! He is
                            hurt'"
                    
                    
                    The count was not thoroughly awake until he found himself in the saddle some
                        time later; it is certain that he did not know until long afterward why they
                        were riding off into the storm. He fell so far behind his companions in the
                        run down the road that he could ask no questions. Right bravely the trio
                        plunged into the dark territory over which the enemy ruled. It was the duke
                        who finally brought the cavalcade to a halt by propounding a most sensible
                        question.
                    "Are you sure she came this way, Cecil?"
                    "Certainly. This is Shaw's way, is n't
                        it?"
                    "Did she say she was going to Shaw's?"
                    "Don't know. Evelyn told me. Hang it all, Barminster, come
                        along. We'll never catch up to her."
                    "Is she riding?"
                    "Nohorses all in."
                    "Do you know, we may have passed her. Deuce take it, Bazelhurst, if
                        she's running away from us, you don't imagine
                        she'd be such a silly fool as to stand in the road and wait for us.
                        If she heard us she'd hide among the trees."
                    "But she's had an hour's start of us."
                    "Where ees she coming to?" asked the  count, with an anxious glance upward just in time to catch a
                        skirmishing raindrop with his eye.
                    "That's just it. We don't know," said the
                        duke.
                    "But I must find her," cried Lord Cecil.
                    "Think of that poor girl alone in this terrible place, storm coming
                        up and all that. Hi, Penelope!" he shouted in his most vociferous
                        treble. The shrieking wind replied. Then the three of them shouted her name.
                        "Gad, she may be lost or dead or Come on, Barminster. We must scour
                        the whole demmed valley."
                    They were off again, moving more cautiously while the duke threw the light
                        from his lamp into the leafy shadows beside the roadway. The wind was
                        blowing savagely down the slope and the raindrops were beginning to beat in
                        their faces with ominous persistency. Some delay was caused by an accident
                        to the rear-guard. A mighty gust of wind blew the count's hat far
                        back over the travelled road. He was so much nearer Bazelhurst Villa when
                        they found it that he would have kept on in that direction for the sake of
                        his warm bed had not his companions talked so scornfully about cowardice.
                    
                    "He's like a wildcat to-night," said the duke in
                        an aside to the little Frenchman, referring to his lordship.
                        "Demme, I'd rather not cross him. You seem to forget that
                        his sister is out in all this fury."
                    "Mon Dieu, but I do not forget. I would gif half my life to hold her
                        in my arms thees eenstan'."
                    "Dem you, sir, I'd give her the other half if you dared try
                        such a thing. We did n't fetch you along to hold her.
                        You've got to hold the horses, that's all."
                    "Diable! How dare you to speak to"
                    "What are you two rowing about?" demanded his lordship.
                        "Come along! We're losing time. Sit on your hat,
                        Deveaux."
                    Away they swept, Penelope's two admirers wrathfully barking at one
                        another about satisfaction at some future hour.
                    The storm burst upon them in all its fury the maddest, wildest storm they had
                        known in all their lives. Terrified, half drowned, blown almost from the
                        saddles, the trio finally found shelter in the lee of a shelving cliff just
                        off the road. While they stood there shivering, clutching the bits of their
                        well-nigh frantic horses, the glimmer  of
                        lights came down to them from windows farther up the steep. There was no
                        mistaking the three upright oblongs of light; they were tall windows in a
                        house, the occupants of which doubtless had been aroused at this unearthly
                        hour by the fierceness of the storm.
                    "By Jove," lamented the duke, water running down his neck
                        in floods. "What a luxury a home is, be it ever so humble, on a
                        night like this."
                    "Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu!" groaned the count. "How
                        comfortab' zey look. And here? Eh bien! Qui fait
                            trembler la terre! I am seeck! I die!"
                    "Penelope is out in all this," moaned his lordship.
                    "I am not so sure of that. Trust a woman to find a place where she
                        can't ruin her hat. My word for it, Cecil, she's found a
                        safe roost. I say, by Jove!" The duke was staring more intently
                        than ever at the windows far above. "I have it! Is n't it
                        rather odd that a house should be lighted so brilliantly at this hour of
                        night?"
                    "Demmed servants forgot to put out the lamps," groaned
                        Bazelhurst without interest.
                    "Nonsense! I tell you what: some one 
                        has roused the house and asked shelter from the storm. Now, who could that
                        be but Penelope?"
                    "By Jove, you're a ripping clever ass, after all,
                        Barminstera regular Sherlock Holmes. That's just it! She's
                        up there where the windows are. Come on! It's easy sailing
                        now," cried his lordship, but the duke restrained him.
                    "Don't rush off like a fool. Whose house is it?"
                    "How the devil do I know? This is Shaw's land, and he has
                        n't been especially cordial about"
                    "Aha! See what I mean? Shaw's land, to be sure. Well, hang
                        your stupidity, don't you know we're looking at
                        Shaw's house this very instant? He lives there and she's
                        arrived, dem it all. She's up there with himdry clothes, hot drinks
                        and all that, and we're out here catching pneumonia. Fine, is
                        n't it?"
                    "Gad! You're right! She's with that confounded
                        villain. My God, what's to become of her?" groaned Lord
                        Cecil, sitting down suddenly and covering his face with his hands.
                    "We must rescue her!" shouted the duke.
                    
                    "Brace up, Cecil! Don't be a baby. We'll storm the
                        place."
                    "Not in zis rain!" cried the count.
                    "You stay here in the shade and hold the horses, that's
                        what you do," said the duke scornfully.
                    A council of war was held. From their partially sheltered position the
                        invaders could see, by the flashes of lightning, that a path and some steps
                        ascended the hill. The duke was for storming the house at once, but Lord
                        Cecil argued that it would be foolish to start before the storm abated.
                        Moreover, he explained, it would be the height of folly to attack the house
                        until they were sure that Penelope was on the inside.
                    After many minutes there came a break in the violence of the storm and
                        preparations were at once made for the climb up the hill. Deveaux was to
                        remain behind in charge of the horses. With their bridle reins in his hands
                        he cheerfully maintained this position of trust, securely sheltered from the
                        full force of the elements. Right bravely did the duke and his lordship
                        venture forth into the spattering rain. They had gone no more than three
                        rods up the path when they were brought to a halt by the sounds of a  prodigious struggle behind them. There was a
                        great trampling of horses' hoofs, accomanied by the frantic shouts
                        of the count.
                    "I cannot hold zem! Mon Dieu! Zey are mad! Ho! Ho! Help!"
                    He was in truth having a monstrous unpleasant time. His two friends stumbled
                        to his assistance, but not in time to prevent the catastrophe. The three
                        horses had taken it into their heads to bolt for home; they were plunging
                        and pulling in three directions at the same time, the count manfully
                        clinging to the bridle reins, in great danger of being suddenly and
                        shockingly dismembered.
                    "Hold to'em!" shouted Lord Cecil.
                    "Help!" shouted the count, at the same moment releasing his
                        grip on the reins. Away tore the horses, kicking great chunks of mud over
                        him as he tumbled aimlessly into the underbrush. Down the road clattered the
                        animals, leaving the trio marooned in the wilderness. Groaning and half
                        dead, the unfortunate count was dragged from the brush by his furious
                        companions. What the duke said to him was sufficient without being repeated,
                        here or elsewhere. The count challenged him as they all resumed  the march up the hill to visit the house with
                        the lighted windows.
                    "Here is my card, m'sieur," he grated furiously.
                    "Demme, I know you!" roared the duke. "Keep your
                        card and we'll send it in to announce our arrival to
                        Shaw."
                    In due course of time, after many slips and falls, they reached the front
                        yard of the house on the hillside. It was still raining lightly; the thunder
                        and lightning were crashing away noisily farther up the valley. Cautiously
                        they approached through the weeds and brush.
                    "By Jove!" exclaimed his lordship, coming to a standstill.
                        He turned the light of his lantern toward the front elevation of the house.
                        "Every door and window, except these three, are boarded up. It
                        can't be Shaw's home."
                    "That's right, old chap. Deuced queer, eh? I say, Deveaux,
                        step up and pound on the door. You've got a card, you
                        know."
                    "Que diable!" exclaimed the count, sinking into the
                        background.
                    "We might reconnoitre a bit," said Bazelhurst.
                        "Have a look at the rear, you know."
                    
                    Around the corner of the house they trailed, finally bringing up at the back
                        steps. The windows were not only dark but boarded up. While they stood there
                        amazed and uncertain, the rain came down again in torrents, worse than
                        before if possible. They scampered for cover, plunging three abreast beneath
                        the same steps that had sheltered Penelope and Shaw such a short time
                        before.
                    "Ouch! Get off my foot!" roared the duke.
                    "Zounds! Who are you punching, demme! Hullo! What's this? A
                        door and open, as I live." The trio entered the cellar door without
                        ceremony. "Thank God, we 're out of the rain, at
                        least."
                    It was not until they had explored the basement and found it utterly without
                        signs of human occupancy that the truth of the situation began to dawn upon
                        them. Barminster's face was white and his voice shook as he
                        ventured the horrid speculation:
                    "The good Lord save usit 's that demmed haunted house Pen
                        was talking about!"
                    "But ze lights?" queried the count.
                    "Ghosts!"
                    "Let's get out of this place," said Lord  Bazelhurst, moving toward the door.
                        "It 's that beastly Renwood house. They say he comes back
                        and murders her every night or so."
                    "Mon Dieu!"
                    "Penelope is n't here. Let 's move on,"
                        agreed the duke readily. But even fear of the supernatural was not strong
                        enough to drive them out into the blinding storm. "I say! Look
                        ahead there. By Harry, there's Shaw's
                        place."
                    Peering through the door they saw for the first time the many lights in
                        Shaw's windows, scarce a quarter of a mile away. For a long time
                        they stood and gazed at the distant windows. Dejectedly they sat down, backs
                        to the wall, and waited for the storm to spend its fury. Wet, cold, and
                        tired, they finally dozed. It was Lord Cecil who first saw the signs of
                        dawn. The rain storm had come to a mysterious end, but a heavy fog in its
                        stead loomed up. He aroused his companions and with many groans of anguish
                        they prepared to venture forth into the white wall beyond.
                    Just as they were taking a last look about the wretched cellar something
                        happened that would have brought terror to the stoutest  heart. A wild, appalling shriek came from somewhere above, the
                        cry of a mortal soul in agony.
                    The next instant three human forms shot through the narrow door and out into
                        the fog, hair on end, eyes bulging but sightless, legs travelling like the
                        wind and as purposeless. It mattered not that the way was hidden; it
                        mattered less that weeds, brush, and stumps lurked in ambush for unwary
                        feet. They fled into the foggy dangers without a thought of what lay before
                        them only of what stalked behind them.
                    Upstairs Randolph Shaw lay back against the wall and shook with laughter.
                        Penelope's convulsed face was glued to the kitchen window, her eyes
                        peering into the fog beyond. Shadowy figures leaped into the white mantle;
                        the crash of brush came back to her ears, and then, like the barking of a
                        dog, there arose from the mystic gray the fast diminishing cry:
                    "Help! Help! Help!" Growing fainter and sharper the cry at
                        last was lost in the phantom desert.
                    They stood at the window and watched the fog lift, gray and forbidding, until
                        the trees and road were discernible. Then, arm  in arm, they set forth across the wet way toward Shaw's cottage.
                        The mists cleared as they walked along, the sun peeped through the hills as
                        if afraid to look upon the devastation of the night; all the world seemed at
                        peace once more.
                    "Poor Cecil!" she sighed. "It was cruel of
                        you." In the roadway they found a hat which she at once identified
                        as the count's. Farther on there was a carriage lamp, and later a
                        mackintosh which had been cast aside as an impediment. "Oh, it was cruel!" She smiled, however, in
                        retrospection.
                    An hour later they stood together on the broad porch, looking out over the
                        green, glistening hills. The warm fresh air filled their lungs and happiness
                        was overcrowding their hearts. In every direction were signs of the
                        storm's fury. Great trees lay blasted, limbs and branches were
                        scattered over the ground, wide fissures split the roadway across which the
                        deluge had rushed on its way down the slope.
                    But Penelope was warm and dry and safe after her thrilling night. A hot
                        breakfast was being prepared for them; trouble seemed to have gone its way
                        with the elements.
                    "If I were only sure that nothing serious  had happened to Cecil," she murmured anxiously.
                    "I 'm sorry, dear, for that screech of mine," he
                        apologized.
                    Suddenly he started and gazed intently in the direction of the haunted house.
                        A man a sorry figurewas slowly, painfully approaching from the edge of the
                        wood scarce a hundred yards away. In his hand he carried a stick to which
                        was attached a white clothdoubtless a handkerchief. He was hatless and
                        limped perceptibly. The two on the porch watched his approach in amazed
                        silence.
                    "It 's Cecil!" whispered Penelope in horror-struck
                        tones. "Good heaven, Randolph, go to him! He is hurt."
                    It was Lord Bazelhurst. As Shaw hurried down the drive to meet him, no
                        thought of the feud in mind, two beings even more hopelessly dilapidated
                        ventured from the wood and hobbled up behind the trucebearer, who had now
                        paused to lift his shoulders into a position of dignity and defiance.
                        Shaw's heart was touched. The spectacle was enough to melt the
                        prejudice of any adversary. Lord Cecil's knees trembled; his hand
                        shook as if in a chill. Mudcovered, 
                        water-soaked, and bruised, their clothes rent in many places, their hats
                        gone and their hair matted, their legs wobbly, the trio certainly inspired
                        pity, not mirth nor scorn.
                    "One moment, sir," called his lordship, with a feeble
                        attempt at severity. His voice was hoarse and shaky. "We do not
                        come as friends, dem you. Is my sister here?"
                    "She is, Lord Bazelhurst. We 'll talk this over later
                        on," said Shaw in his friendliest way. "You are worn out
                        and done up, I 'm sureyou and your friends. Come! I 'm not
                        as bad as you think. I 've changed my mind since I saw you last.
                        Let 's see if we can't come to an amicable understanding.
                        Miss Drake is waiting up there. Breakfast soon will be readyhot coffee and
                        all that. Permit me, gentlemen, to invite you to partake of what we have.
                        What say you?"
                    "Confound you, sir, II" but his brave effort failed him. He
                        staggered and would have fallen had not the duke caught him from behind.
                    "Thanks, old chap," said Barminster to Shaw. "We
                        will come in for a moment. I say, perhaps you could give us a dry dud  or two. Bazelhurst is in a bad way and so is
                        the count. It was a devil of a storm."
                    "Mon Dieu! c'tait pouvantable!" groaned the count.
                    
                    Penelope came down from the porch to meet them. Without a word she took her
                        brother's arm. He stared at her with growing resentment.
                    "Dem it all, Pen," he chattered, "you 're
                        not at all wet, are you? Look at me! All on your account, too."
                    "Dear old Cecil! All on Evelyn's account, you
                        mean," she said softly, wistfully.
                    "I shall have an understanding with her when we get home,"
                        he said earnestly. "She shan't treat my sister like this
                        again."
                    "No," said Shaw from the other side; "she
                        shan't."
                    "By Jove, Shaw, are you with me?"
                        demanded his lordship in surprise.
                    "Depends on whether you are with me," said the other.
                        Penelope flushed warmly.
                    Later on, three chastened but ludicrous objects shuffled into the
                        breakfast-room, where Shaw and Penelope awaited them. In passing, it is only
                        necessary to say that Randolph Shaw's clothes did not fit the
                        gentlemen to whom they were loaned.
                    
                    Bazelhurst was utterly lost in the folds of a gray tweed, while the count was
                        obliged to roll up the sleeves and legs of a frock suit which fitted Shaw
                        rather too snugly. The duke, larger than the others, was passably fair in an
                        old swallow-tail coat and brown trousers. They were clean, but there was a
                        strong odour of arnica about them. Each wore, besides, an uncertain,
                        sheepish smile.
                    Hot coffee, chops, griddle cakes, and maple syrup soon put the contending
                        forces at their ease. Bazelhurst so far forgot himself as to laugh amiably
                        at his host's jokes. The count responded in his most piquant
                        dialect, and the duke swore by an ever-useful Lord Harry that he had never
                        tasted such a breakfast.
                    "By Jove, Pen," exclaimed her brother, in rare good humour,
                        "it 's almost a sin to take you away from such good
                        cooking as this."
                    "You 're not going to take her away, however,"
                        said Shaw. "She has come to stay."
                    There was a stony silence. Coffee-cups hung suspended in the journey to
                        mouths, and three pairs of eyes stared blankly at the smiling speaker.
                    "Whatwhat the devil do you mean, 
                        sir?" demanded Lord Cecil, his coffee-cup shaking so violently that
                        the contents overflowed.
                    "She 's going over to Plattsburg with me to-day, and when
                        she comes back she will be Mrs. Randolph Shaw. That 's what I mean,
                        your lordship."
                    Three of his listeners choked with amazement and then coughed painfully.
                        Feebly they set their cups down and gulped as if they had something to
                        swallow. The duke was the first to find his tongue, and he was quite at a
                        loss for words.
                    "Bby Jove," he said blankly, "that's
                        demmed hot coffee!"
                    "Is this true, Penelope?" gasped his lordship.
                    "Yes, Cecil. I 've promised to marry him."
                    "Good God! It is n't because you feel that you have no home
                        with me?"
                    "I love him. It 's a much older story than you
                        think," she said simply.
                    "I say, that hits me hard," said the duke, with a wry face.
                        "Still, I join in saying God bless you."
                    "We 're trying to end the feud, you see," said
                        Penelope.
                    
                    Tears came into his lordship's pale eyes. He looked first at one and
                        then at the other, and then silently extended his hand to Randolph Shaw. He
                        wrung it vigorously for a long time before speaking. Then, as if throwing a
                        weight off his mind, he remarked:
                    "I say, Shaw, I 'm sorry about that dog. I 've got
                        an English bull-terrier down there that 's taken a ribbon or so. If
                        you don't mind, I 'll send him up to you. Hehe knows
                        Penelope."
                
            
        
    
