
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. Artie A Story of the Streets and Town: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2320
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                ARTIE
                
            
            
            
                
                
                    ARTIE
                
            
            
            
                
                    ARTIE
                    A Story of the Streets and Town 
                
                BY
                    GEORGE ADE
                PICTURES BY JOHN T. McCUTCHEON
                
                    CHICAGO
                    HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
                    1896
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1896, By HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
                SECOND EDITION OCTOBER 10, 1896
            
        
        
            
            
                ARTIE
                
                    I
                    One day Mrs. Morton, wife of the city manager, came to the offices and in polite
                        brigandage compelled each man in the room to pay fifty cents for a ticket to the charity
                        entertainment. This entertainment was to be given at a South Side church on the following
                        Wednesday evening. Artie bought a ticket with apparent willingness.
                    "I do n't want you young men to think that I'm robbing you of this money," said Mrs.
                        Morton. "I want you to come to the entertainment. You'll enjoy it, really."
                    "Blanchard can go all right," suggested Miller, with a wink at young Mr. Hall. "He
                        lives within a few blocks of your church."
                    
                    "Then he must come," said Mrs. Morton decisively. "Won't you, Mr. Blanchard?"
                    "Sure," replied Artie, blushing deeply.
                    "Why, Mrs. Morton, he has n't been in a church for three years," said Miller.
                    "I do n't believe it," and she turned to Artie, who was shaking his fist at Miller.
                        "Now, Mr. Blanchard, I want you to promise me faithfully that you '11 come."
                    "I'll be there all right," said he, smiling feebly.
                    "Remember, you 've promised," and as she went out she shook her finger at him as a
                        final reminder.
                    "Well, are you going? "asked Miller.
                    Artie put on his lofty manner and gazed at his office
                        companions with seeming coldness.
                    "What's it to you whether I do or not?.Didn't you hear what I said to her? Sure I 'm
                        goin'. I've got as much right to go out and do the heavy as any o' you
                    
                    Pin heads. I fIlik etheir show I'11 help'em out next timeget a couple o' handy boys
                        and put on a six-round go for a finish. Them people never saw anything good."
                    "I'll bet you don't go," spoke up young Mr. Hall.
                    Artie laughed dryly." You guys must think I'm a quitter, to be scared out by any
                        little old church show," said he.
                    That was the last said of the charity entertainment until Thursday morning, when
                        Artie, after dusting off his desk, strolled up to Miller and gave him a friendly blow, known to
                        ringside patrons as a" kidney-punch."
                    "Ouch!" exclaimed Miller.
                    "Well, I goes,"said Artie.
                    "Where?" Asked Miller, who had forgotten.
                    "Where? Well that's a good thing. To the church showthe charity graft.
                    I didn't do a thing but push my face in there about eight o'clock last night, and I
                             was it from the start. Say, I like that church,
                        and if they 'II put in a punchin'bag and a plunge they can have my game, I '11 tell you those."
                    "Did you see Mrs. Morton?"
                    "How 's that, boy? Did I see her? Say, she treated me out o' sight. She meets me at
                        the door, puts out the glad hand and says: 'Hang up your lid and come into the game.'"
                    "I never heard her talk like that," suggested Miller.
                    "Well, that's what she meant. She 's all right, too, and the only wonder to me is how
                        she ever happened to tie herself up to that slob. It's like hitchin' up a four-time winner
                        'longside of a pelter. He ain't in her class, not for a minute or a part of a minute. What kills
                        me off is how all these dubs make their star winnin's. W'y, out there last night I see the
                        measliest lot o' jays regular Charley-boys floatin' around with queens. I  wish somebody 'd tell me how they cop "em out. Do n't it kill you dead
                        to see a swell girl you know, a regular peach holdin' on to some freak with side whiskers and
                        thinkin' she's got a good thing? That's right. She thinks he 's all right. Anyway, she acts the
                        part. And say, you know Percival, that works over in the bank little Percy, the perfect lady.
                        There's a guy I 've known for five years, and so help me, if he gets on a street-car where I am,
                        I get off and walk. That ain't no lie. I pass him up. I say, 'You 're all right, Percy, and you
                        can take the car to yourself,' and then I duck."
                    "Was he there?"
                    "The whole thing! That ain't no kid. He was the real papa the hit o' the piece. One
                        on each arm, see? and puttin' up the large, juicy con talk. They was beauts too; you could n't
                        beat 'em, not in a thousand years. There they was, holdin' to this wart. Up goes my hands  in the air, and I says to myself: 'Percy, you 're all
                        right. I would n't live on the same street with you, but you 're all right at that.' But he
                        could n't see me."
                    "Could n't see you?"
                    "No, he lost his eyesight. He looked at me, but he was too busy to see me. No, he had
                        on his saucy coat and that touch-me-not necktie, and oh, he was busy. He was n't doin' a thing.
                        I think I '11 give the bank a line on Percy. Any man that wears that kind of a necktie had n't
                        ought to handle money. But you ought to seen the two he had. I'd like to know how he does it. I
                        had a notion to go up to one o' the girls and say: 'What's the matter? Ain't you ever seen any
                        others?'"
                    "Did you like the show?" asked Miller." It's this way. They liked it, and so " with a
                        wave of the hand " let 'em have it. If they put the same turns on at any variety house the
                        people 'd tear down  the buildin' tryin' to get their
                        coin back. Mrs. Morton got me a good seat and then backcapped the show a little before it opened
                        up, so I did n't expect to be pulled out o' my chair , and I was n't. If I 'd been near the door
                        I 'd 'a' sneaked early in the game, but, like a farmer, I let her put me way up in front. I saw
                        I was up against it, so I lasted the best way I could. Two or three o' the songs was purty fair,
                        but the woman that trifled with the piano for about a half an hour was very much on the bummy
                        bum. Then there was a guy called an entertainer, that told some o' the gags I used to hear when
                        my brother took me to the old Academy and held me on his lap. But he got 'em goin' just the
                        same. 'Well,' I says to myself, 'what'd a couple o' hot knockabouts do to this push?' On the
                        dead, I do n't believe any o' them people out there ever saw a good show. It just goes to prove
                        that there's lots of people with stuff that think they  know what's goin' on in town, but they do n't. I ain't got no kick coming only it was a
                        yellow show, and I 'm waitin' for forty,five cents change."
                    "I should think you would have got the worth of your money simply by seeing so many
                        good-looking girls," said Miller.
                    "The girls are all right, only I think they 're a little slow on pickin' the right
                        kind. If I had time I 'd go over to that church and make a lot o' them Reubs look like
                        thirty-cent pieces. Not that I 'm strong on the con talk, but I know I 'd be in it with them
                        fellows. I think it must be a case of nerve. That's all there is to 'em , is nerve. But the
                        girls , wow!"
                    "Beauties, eh?"
                    "Lollypaloozers!"
                    
                    
                        THE CAUTIOUS BOY
                    
                
                
                
                    II
                    "It's hard goin' this morning," remarked Artie, as he performed the difficult feat of
                        removing his rubbers without touching his hands to them, "and I ain 't much of a mud-horse." He
                        telescoped his cuffs and put them on a hook, yawned lazily and said: "I 've got a peach of a
                        head."
                    "Were you out?" asked Miller.
                    "Naw, I was settin' in an easy game o' poker. None of us stood to win car fare, but I
                        went in, thinkin' I might get 'em loosened up and pull out the price of a Christmas present for
                        the girl."
                    "Did you?"
                    "Well, I should say nit. I think I 'll have to duck on that present or else go out
                        with a stockin' full o' sand. You never see such a sure,thing crowd in your life."
                    
                    "Where were you playing?"
                    "Over at Kennedy's room. He got me to come over and had a couple of his friends
                        there. Oh, but they was hot members' One of 'em whenever he got better 'n jacks up, always lost
                        his voice and could n't keep count o' the chips. Then he 'd stop the game every three minutes to
                        see how he stood with himself. He 'd stack up, you know, an' feel in his pockets and then he 'd
                        say: 'I 'm forty-seven cents loser.' He was the best I ever see."
                    "Were you playing for money?" asked young Mr. Hall.
                    "Play in' for,now, wouldn't that upper,cut you? Sure. You did n't think this was a
                        game o' muggins, like you boys play up at your little old cycle club? This was the real old army
                        game. I guess I saw as much as two bones change hands."
                    "How did you come out?" asked Miller.
                    
                    "Wait and I'll tell you. We kind o' petered along there for two or three hours or so,
                        makin" two call five and as high as fifteen cents to see, everybody keepin' books and beefin'
                        about the way the hands was runnin' and showin' up the cards when nobody come in, and tellin'
                        what they might a' done if they 'd done purty well, an' so on real gambler talk till I says to
                        myself,' I 'll try it, an' if it do n't go, it's a baby risk." I gets a pair of typewriters and
                        stays in. All of 'emplayin' see? Kennedy leads off. I think he tossed in seven white chips;
                        anyway, he was strong. Then this boy that was keepin' tab on his stack all the time, he had to
                        think it all over and have another talk with himself and skin his cards three or four times, and
                        then he put in. Up to me see? I kind o' gives the gentle push to half a samoleon and says:'
                        Comrades, it 'll cost you fifty c. apiece to linger in my society." Say, you never see people so
                        busy. Kennedy  has a long talk with himself and counts
                        his stuff, and then he says to this safe player at the right o' me: 'Are you goin' to call him?'
                        'Nix,' I says. 'This ain 't tennis; this is poker.' Kennedy looked a few spots off his hand, and
                        then he says: 'Well, I'm out," just as if he said: 'Well, I lose eight thousand on wheat
                        to-day.'"
                    "Did the other fellow stay?" asked Miller.
                    "Stay nothin'! He had the heart failure when he see that half. I pulled in the dough
                        and picked up the cards. 'What did you have?' says Kennedy. 'Oh," I says,' I did n't have
                        nothin' but five nines.' 'No,' he says, 'on the square, what did
                        you have?' I told him it was against the rules for me to say, but it was a cinch I had him
                        done.' Well,' he says, 'I had three kings.' That ain't no kid, neither. The geezer was settin'
                        there lookin' into three kings all the time."
                    
                    "Why, he had you beat, did n't he?" exclaimed young Mr. Hall.
                    "Not in a thousand years. Did n 't I tell you I got the stuffquite a bundle o' money,
                        too. I think there was thirty-six cents. Talk about your Monte Carlo boys! Them guys last night
                        was the gamiest I ever set down with."
                    "Well, now, did n't you have to tell him what you had?" inquired young Mr. Hall.
                    "Not accordin' to the league rules for this year. Did I have to tell? You 're all
                        right, boy."
                    "How did you come out?" persisted Miller.
                    "W'y, what chance did I have to get into 'em? Talk about safe playin'! They're like
                        the stock-yards man that wanted to fight Sullivan. 'I 'll fight him,' he says, 'if you blindfold
                        Sullivan and gi' me an ax.' That was the way with them dubs. They liked the color o' my money,
                        but  they would n't take no risk. After that first
                        saucy crack with the half I laid low three or four hands, and then I knocked 'em a horrible
                        twister. It was a jack pot, and this cautious boy at the right o' me opened it. I stay, see? Why
                        should n't I, when I had two, four, six, seven and nine, in three different colors, all in my
                        mit? I stands pat on the draw, and then the first crack out 'the box I whoops it a half fifty
                        kopecks. What does he do? He could n't drop his hand too quick. Another case o' licked in a
                        punch. He shows jacks up for openers and then starts to pick up my hand, but I stood him off. I
                        says; 'Nay, nay, Pauline, there's some things so good that it costs money to see 'em.' I told
                        him that when he wanted to get wise to what was in my hand all he had to do was to dig up his
                        bit and come in. 'Well,' he says, 'I don't want to lose my stuff.' On the level, no kiddin'
                        that's what he said that he did n't want to lose his 
                        stuff. I told him he was in the wrong kind of a game that he ought to be playin' 'Heavy, heavy,
                        hangs over your head.'"
                    "You have n't told us yet how you came out," said young Mr. Hall.
                    "Well, I kept on layin' low, and then every fourth hand or so comin' in with a
                        half-dollar and takin' the pot. Finally, after I 'd sprung it on 'em about a dozen times and was
                        gettin' quite a stack in front o' me, I stood pat on a hand and tried 'em again. 'Hold on,' says
                        this cautious boy, shakin' all over, 'hold on, don't take that!' I told him I would n't take it
                        till it come time. Then him and Kennedy had a long spiel to themselves. Kennedy was out, of
                        course, not bein' able to show up better 'n threes. He advised the boy to see me. Both of 'em
                        looked at the hand and sized me up, and finally this boy that was holdin" the hand said he 'd go
                        halves with Kennedy and make me spread what 1 had. They  had some more of the talk and at last they put in a quarter apiece. 'I ain't got a thing but
                        a flush,' I says, and I lays down four hearts and a diamond."
                    "That was n't a," began young Mr. Hall.
                    "Sh!" said Miller.
                    "You ought 'o heard the roar," resumed Artie, giving young Mr. Hall a reproving
                        glance. "Kennedy hollered the worst of all. 'That ain't no flush,' he says. 'Of course it is,' I
                        come back; 'ain't they all one color?' With that they both begin talkin' at once, showin' me how
                        it was a flush had to be all hearts or all diamonds and that sort o" business. 1 waited till
                        they got through, and then I said I was dead sore about not bein' next to the point. I says to
                        'em: 'I been playin' them hands for flushes all night.' The old gag, see? They never tumbled,
                        though. You never heard such kickin". Them guys thought I 'd been playin' red and  black hands all the time. This cautious boy figured
                        he could 'a' won four bucks if he 'd called me every time I stood pat. Say, you 'd died if you
                        'd heard him."
                    "Well, who won the pot?
                    "asked Miller.
                    "I think you 're about as bright on the game as they was. W'y, that chump had a full
                        house, nines on somethin'. Soon as he took the half I said I 'd stop , would n't play no more
                        till I learned to read the hands. We all cashed in, and what do you think? I was seventy-three
                        cents to the good. There I set like a big stiff for five hours and pulled against them marks for
                        seventy-three cents. Kennedy lose fifty-four cents, an' I '11 make a guess right now he ain't
                        through kickin' yet."
                
                
                
                    III
                    While they were at lunch a square envelope of a delicate pink color was placed on
                        Artie's table.
                    It was addressed in very blue ink to "Mr. Arthur Blanchard, Esq."
                    Furthermore, the stamp was placed upside down on the upper left-hand corner of the
                        envelope. According to the code of the "stamp flirtation" this means either, "Write soon" or "I
                        am longing to see you."
                    When the recipient is certain as to the feelings of the one who has written, he or
                        she may take this unusual position of the stamp to mean even more than is written in the code.
                    There may be some ignorant persons who do not know that when a lady passes 
                        
                            MAMIE
                        
                         a handkerchief across her face this is a signal to
                        the gentleman friend, standing in front of the cigar store, that she must speak with him soon.
                    Again, when a gentleman carries his umbrella grasped by the middle with the handle
                        pointing backward he is making a declaration of love to all women whom he encounters. He may be
                        utterly unconscious of the fact, but any one who understands the leading signals of the
                        "umbrella flirtation" will know what is meant when a gentleman deliberately holds his umbrella
                        in that position.
                    Furthermore, if he carried his umbrella handle forward and inclined at forty-five
                        degrees it would mean "We must part."
                    A study of that interesting yellow volume wherein are set down all the secrets of
                        flirtation by means of fan, handkerchief, glove, umbrella, walking-stick, postage stamp, book,
                        etc., etc., will show that a deep significance attaches to  the most ordinary procedures. Even the hoisting of an umbrella or the mopping
                        of a damp brow may be construed as an expression of hatred, or the very reverse.
                    If a young man is too bashful or too diplomatic to make a frank declaration of love
                        all he has to do is to "crumple the dance programme in his left hand," and the young woman who
                        has studied the yellow volume will know that he means "I cannot live without you." (See
                        "programme flirtations.")
                    Artie no sooner saw the envelope than he smiled broadly. He knew the meaning of the
                        upside-down stamp, but Miller did not.
                    "Oh, well, I guess I ain't strong on the North Side," said Artie, as he held the
                        envelope up to the light." She writes a swell letter, don 't she? You might think, to size it
                        up, it come from the Lake Shore Drive. She 's a little queer on the spellin' but her heart's in
                        the right place."
                    
                    "Is that from one of your lady friends?" asked young Mr. Hall, with a side wink at
                        Miller. Since Hall had been attending the whist parties he had shown a disposition to be quietly
                        scornful of Artie's social connections.
                    "Never you mind," replied Artie. "This ain't for boys."
                    He opened the letter and read it carefully, occasionally remarking: "I ain't a bit
                        strong here."
                    "Are we going to hear it?" asked Miller, who was biting his pencil with curiosity.
                    "Not in a thousand. What do you take me for? This letter's for me and I 'm the only
                        boy that gets 'em, too, I 'll tell you those."
                    "That's what she says, I suppose."
                    "Is that so? I come purt' near knowin' how strong I am with her. There ain "t nobody
                        else one-two-seven. They ain't even in the 'also rans.'"
                    
                    "Well, you must be solid."
                    "Solid? W'y, I 'm one o' the family. You could n't queer me with that girl. I 've
                        made the play at the old folks, on the square. The old man's dead with me. I went to see her one
                        night and she was out, so I had to set there for about an hour and pipe him the best I could.
                        Le' me tell you."
                    Then Artie had to stop and laugh.
                    "I never put you next to how I come to meet her, did I? Say, there was the funniest
                        thing ever. It must 'a' been three months ago, a fellow holds me up for the price of a ticket to
                        a dance up on North Clark street. I did n't expect to break in, but when the night come there
                        was nothin' else in sight so I hot-foots up to the dance. It was a sucker play, too, because I
                        might 'a' known it 'd be a case of takin' the horse cars to get back to the West Side. I had
                        some new togs, a new pair o' patent leathers andwell, I don't like to star  myself, but I guess I was about as good as the best. And this crowd up
                        there was purty-y-y punk; very much on the hand-me-down order."
                    "It was n 't a full dress affair, then?" asked Miller, laughing.
                    "Oh me, oh my! Full dress? W'y, if a guy 'd floated in there with one o' them
                        Clarence outfits they'd 'a' hung him across a chandelier. Some o' them was dead tough and the
                        others was hams. It was frosty, too. I could n 't see any folks I knew, so I stood around there
                        on one foot kind o' rubber-neckin' to find an openin'. Finally I see Mamie over in one corner."
                    "So that's her name, is it Mamie?"
                    "I guess you got past my guard that time. Yes, that's her name, Mamie. As soon as I
                        see her everything else off. It was a sure enough case of 'only one girl.' 'In a minute,' I
                        says, and I swore I 'd get next no matter what kind of a brash play I had to make. Say, she's a
                        dream.
                    
                    That's right. If she had the clothes she'd make the best of 'em look foolish."
                    "I believe you "re stuck on her," ventured Miller.
                    "Mebbe that ain't no lie neither. She 'd make anybody daffy. As I was sayin' she was
                        settin' over in the corner, and I could see that a Johnny-on-the-spot, with a big badge, marked
                        'Committee,' was tryin' to keep cases on her. He waltzed with her once or twice, but most o' the
                        time he had to be out on the floor yellin' 'Two more couples wanted,' and all that business. He
                        was makin' himself the whole thing. Well, I got friendly with a guy that was standin"around, the
                        same as myself, tryin' to break in, an' I says to him: 'I want you to do me a favor. Take me
                        over and gi' me a knock-down to the queen in the corner.' He said he didn't know her. 'What's
                        the diff?' I says. 'Ain 't you got your nerve with you?' Well, he was all right.
                    
                    He took me over and says: 'Miss Lum-yum and-so-and-so,' fakin" it as he went, 'I want
                        you to shake hands with my friend, Mr. Ta-ra-m-m-m,' and then he ducked."
                    "What was it he called you?" "He did n't call me nothin'. He just made a bluff. She
                        says to me, 'I did n't ketch the name. 'Livingstone," I says, 'Herbert Livingstone. I'm on the
                        board o' trade.' That board o" trade business has been done to death, but I guess it went with
                        her. I asked her for her name and she give it to me straight. 'How about the next dance?' I
                        says. She said it was all right if Mr. Wilson did n 't come around and claim it. I asked her if
                        the boy with the badge owned her and she laughed. I see that he did n't have no cinch on it, so
                        I just started in. I put up the tall talk, jollied her along, danced with her three times well,
                        of course, you could n't blame her. I sprung them
                    
                    West Side manners o' mine on her and I had her won. Finally his rabs with the banner
                        on his coat comes around and begins to roast her. Sore? You never see a man so sore."
                    "Why did n't you stop him?"
                    "Oh, I did n't stop him, did I? Mebbe I let him go right ahead and have his own way.
                        You ought o' seen me. I put up a bluff that 'd curl your hair. I went up to him and I breathed
                        it right in his ear. I leaned against him. 'Look here,' I says, 'you screw right away from here.
                        We do n't like your style. If you open your face to this lady again to-night I'll separate you
                        from your breath.' Did he go? Well, I should say yes. He did n't want none o' my game."
                    "Did n't she get mad?" asked young Mr. Hall, who had become intensely interested.
                    "What, after he 'd weakened that way? His name was pants, then and there. I  says to her: 'That fellow's got a horrible rind to
                        think he can set on the same side o' the room with you.' Then she said she did n't know what she
                        'd do, because he'd brought her there and her pa-pah would be crazy if she went runnin' around
                        the street by her lonelies. You see, I was n't doin' all the stringin'. She kept playin' that
                        'pa-pah' gag on me. Pa-pah wanted her to take music lessons, and pa-pah was very particular who
                        she went out with, and ma-mah was worried whenever she stayed out after twelve. I did n't want
                        to call her down, but I could tell from the dress and the talk and all that that she'd never had
                        any diamonds to throw at the birds. But then I was spinnin' pipe dreams myself, tellin' about
                        how much I lose on the board and all that."
                    Miller leaned back in his chair and roared. Artie waited for him to subside.
                    "I took her home, but not all the way. She stopped on the corner and said that  was far enough. I sized it up that the house was on
                        the bum and she did n't want me to see it. I had her name and I told her I wanted to write to
                        her. She said, 'Mebbe,' and then she flew."
                    "Did n't you kiss her good-night? "asked young Mr. Hall, roguishly.
                    "Well, the,"and what Artie then and there said under an extreme stress of indignation
                        need not be repeated. "Say, do you know who I 'm talkin" about? Do n't you make none o' them
                        funny plays at me. I 'm tellin' you that this is the first time I met her. I do n't know how
                        they act in your set, but this girl well, you 've got to know her awhile."
                    "I was just joking," said young Mr. Hall.
                    "All right, drop it. As I was sayin", I told her I 'd write to her, but I did n't.
                        Well, one day on Dearborn street, who does I meet but the girl, comin' out of a buildin' where
                        all them
                    ' offices are.
                    
                    ' Hello, there, little one,' I says. 'Do you work up here?' That kind o' staggered
                        her. So she weakened and said she did. She ain't a very good liar. I walked down to the corner
                        with her and give her a little song about thinkin' all the more of her since I 'd learned she
                        was a workin' girl. She was so square I could n 't string her no more, so I told her who I was
                        and fixed it up to take her to a show. Well, when I went out to the house it was a purty small
                        place in behind a grocery store. Pa-pah had on a woolen shirt and was smokin' a pipe. You could
                        see that Mamie was the main screw o' the house and run things to suit herself. The old man's a
                        hard-workin' old boy, and I think I'm strong with him. The old lady's a little leary of me, but
                        I can win her all right."
                    "Is Mamie the one that you've been calling 'the girl' all the time?" asked Miller.
                    
                    "She 's the only one that got a Christmas present from me. And say," he continued,
                        lowering his voice so that young Mr. Hall could not hear," if I ever rent a flat she's the party
                        that picks out the furniture. That ain't no josh, neither."
                    
                    
                        THE POOL SHARK
                    
                
                
                
                    IV
                    Both Artie and Miller had been kept at the office unusually late because of the extra
                        work that comes at the end of the month. It was nine o'clock when they left. Miller took Artie
                        by the arm and led him toward a billiard hall, where they frequently had fifteen-ball pool
                        conests.
                    Artie was the better player and usually had to "spot" three.
                    The corner table was not in use with the remark that he would proceed to play pool as
                        "old folks" played it, Artie removed his coat, pushed his linen cuffs into one of the sleeves,
                        lighted a fat cigar and began a critical inspection of the cues in the rack. Having selected a
                        cue he carefully deposited his cigar at one edge of the  table and "busted" the fifteen balls with a fierce stroke.
                    When the balls stopped rolling they were scattered all over the table, but not one of
                        them had gone into a pocket.
                    "A dead rank Jonah," muttered Artie, as he backed away from the table and took a firm
                        bite at his cigar.
                    When he became deeply interested in a game of pool, and particularly when he was
                        behind in the count, he dropped his usual talkative mood and became silently earnest and
                        watchful.
                    Miller appeared to have caught a winning stroke, and, although Artie was expected to
                        "three, Miller had four balls before Artie made one. Then Artie became actually serious, pulling
                        his cigar still deeper into his mouth and studying the situation carefully before undertaking a
                        shot.
                    He did not observe the young man who had drifted over from another table to 32  watch the game until this young man said, in comment
                        on one of Artie's failures: "That "s where you ought to have made a bank."
                    Artie glanced at him sharply. The young man had a dark mustache, pointed at the ends.
                        His garments bespoke a sporty cheapness and he was smoking a cigarette.
                    Artie looked at Miller and said: "I wish I knew where I could get some brainy guy to
                        gi' me lessons on this game."
                    The young man smoking the cigarette pretended not to hear this remark. He leaned
                        against one of the posts and idly watched Miller prepare to make an impossible shot.
                    Strange to say, Miller made the impossible shot, although the ball did not go into
                        the pocket for which he had vaguely intended it. Miller bore up calmly, as if he were not
                        surprised.
                    "Oh, sister," moaned Artie, "I got no 33" 
                        show for my life with a man that plays like that. Just shut your eyes every time and you 've got
                        a cinch."
                    "That was a lucky play," observed the stranger.
                    "Oh, I do n't know," said Artie, regarding the stranger with a sidewise glance. "I do
                        n't know."
                    Miller shot again and went out.
                    "Now, let 's make it a three-handed game," said the stranger, coming forward.
                    Artie stopped short, slowly rubbed his chin and looked at the intruder. "You won 't
                        think I 'm too fly if I ask you a question, will you?"
                    "Why, no."
                    "Well, where did you get your chips to come in here? I ain't seen no one haulin' at
                        you to get you in. Your clothes ain't tore, as I can see."
                    "Now, there 's no need of makin' a roar," said the stranger, with a conciliating
                        smile.
                    
                    "Ain 't there? You 're just tryin' to break into the game, that's all. I s'pose you
                        're lookin' for cigarette money."
                    "Oh, well, if you 're goin' to act that way I do n't care whether I play with you or
                        not. I just thought"
                    "Drop it! Do n't try to con me with no such talk. I 'm on to you bigger 'n a house. I
                        know about you and the whole push o' ringers. Me and my friend here play a gentleman's game,
                        understand? I might stand some show against you, only I do n't take my meals off of a pool
                        table. I ain't no shark that hangs around these places all day lookin' for somethin' easy, and I
                        'm just foolish enough to think that I 'm too good to play pool with a skin like you."
                    "Oh, you make me tired," said the intruder, who had walked away a few paces and then
                        returned, as he evidently did not wish to retreat while he was under fire.
                    "Is that so? "demanded Artie, who still 
                        had his cigar in his mouth. "W'y, say, I 'll make book right here that you 're livin' off o'
                        your mother or sister and payin' no board. I know you kind o' geezers like a book. I do n't come
                        in here to give coin to no such stiffs as you. Nononot if I 'm on to my job."
                    "I guess you 've said about enough," remarked the young man with the mustache. His
                        cigarette trembled between his stained fingers.
                    "Mebbe but I 'm in purty good voice yet, if any one should ask. I just want to put
                        you next to one thing. When any o' you blokies try to push into a game where I am and get me to
                        put up any dough against your shark combinations w'y, you 're on a dead one. I may be a farmer,
                        but it takes better people than you to sling the bull con into me."
                    The stranger turned half-way around and said: "I do n't care to quarrel with you in
                        here. I 'll see you later."
                    
                    Then he started to walk away.
                    "Mebbe you will," said Artie, "but you won't be lookin' for me, you big stiff."
                    And with that he began digging his cuffs out of his coat-sleeve.
                    "How was it?" he asked, grinning at Miller.
                    "I thought he was going to fight."
                    "Not that boy. He was four-flushin'. I know the brand."
                
                
                
                    V
                    It was not a strange thing, after allthe growing friendship between Miller and Artie.
                    There is a common theory, and a theory at best, that "birds of a feather flock
                        together," and this may mean that the human being selects for his companions the people who are
                        much like himself in tastes, habits and aspirations.
                    Nevertheless, a South Side man, who has written a large book intended to be a guide
                        to happiness and sold by subscription only, claims that a tall man should marry a short woman, a
                        blonde should select a brunette, the quiet man should choose for his partner a vivacious woman
                        and the intellectual giant should give the preference to a housekeeper or a cook.
                    
                    
                        ONE O' THEM RAH-RAH BOYS
                    
                    
                    He points out the obvious disadvantages that would result were an artist to be tied
                        up with an art critic, and depicts the misery obtaining in that household every member of which
                        wishes to do all the talking.
                    Miller and Artie got along famously together. Miller was the listener and Artie was
                        the entertainer. Miller read books and Artie read the town.
                    Miller secretly believed that Artie was a superficial young man, but he had to admire
                        his candor and his worldly cleverness. Artie liked Miller because he was a font of sympathy and
                        accepted a confidence in a serious way.
                    Miller knew only one kind of people, and these were the three-button-cutaway,
                        standing-collar, derby-hat people of his own reputable station in life.
                    Artie had acquaintances in every layer of society.
                    Artie's casual reflections on matters about town were so many revelations to
                    
                    Miller, whose ignorance, considering that he belonged to a club and had a library of
                        his own, was appalling. Artie's ordinary experiences were thrilling adventures and Artie's love
                        affairs and the briskness with which they were conducted, amazed and interested him.
                    Miller had always lacked the resolution to have any love affairs of his own.
                    At the close of an unusually dull day in the office Miller and Artie went to a "new
                        place" to eat. It was a dull week when Artie could not find a new restaurant, and he was
                        especially warm in his praise of this latest discovery, because it offered a complete dinner for
                        the comparatively small sum of fifty cents.
                    Artie had been in a bad humor all day and had taken out his spite on young Mr. Hall,
                        who had been lolling at his desk throughout the afternoon and writing a long letter to a chum
                        who was attending a school somewhere in the east.
                    
                    "Who is heone o' them rah-rah boys with a big bunch o' hair?" asked Artie when young
                        Mr. Hall first spoke of the "chum."
                    "He's an awfully nice fellow," responded young Mr. Hall, stiffly. He had attended the
                        academy himself and he did not like the reference to "rah-rah boys."
                    "I 'll bet he 's one o' them saucy guys that wears a big ribbon. Say, you skipped a
                        couple o' pages there."
                    Young Mr. Hall, after filling the first page of his letter, had begun writing on the
                        fourth page. He paid no attention to Artie's sarcasm. After he had filled the last page he
                        opened the sheet and began inside, writing crosswise of the paper.
                    Artie, who had been watching with cold disgust, said: "When your old college chum
                        gets that letter it 'll keep him guessin' where to begin on it."
                    Young Mr. Hall smiled rather contemptuously.  "Did n't you ever see a letter written this way?" he asked.
                    "Certainly not. I 've been gettin' letters right along from the nicest people on the
                        South Side and they always begin on the last page and write it backwards. On the level, I 'm
                        surprised you ain't on to that. Anybody that 'd write that kind of letter could n't play in our
                        set."
                    "For goodness' sake, stop!" "exclaimed young Mr. Hall. "You 're getting me so rattled
                        I can't write."
                    "W'y, sure, only I was tryin' to put you next to some good pointers. I do n't like to
                        see a nice promisin' boy like you queer himself in sassiety just when he 's at the post."
                    "What do you know about society?" demanded young Mr. Hall.
                    "Why, Harold, old chap, I know all about it I know it easy, too. Did n't you see me
                        at the last charity ball?"
                    "I 'd like to see you at a charity ball," 
                        said young Mr. Hall, derisively. He was becoming thoroughly exasperated.
                    "Oh, I could be there, I guess, if I wanted to. It's a case o' ten bucks and rentin'
                        one o' them waiter suits. I know boys that went down there and put on a dizzy front, and next
                        day they had to make a hot touch for a short coin so as to get the price of a couple o' sinkers
                        and a good old 'draw one.'"
                    "Well, that 's all right: let me finish my letter."
                    "Go ahead, old fel, I never said a word."
                    But he kept on nagging the unhappy young man just the same, and Miller wondered at
                        it, for he had never before seen Artie in such an ugly mood.
                    Therefore, when they had reached the restaurant and Artie continued to be glum and
                        unsociable, Miller asked him the direct question: "What's the matter with you, anyway?"
                    "O, nothin' much. On the hog, that's  all.
                        Been feelin' rotten all day. I did n't want to tell you at the office, but it's all off with me
                        and the girl."
                    "Who? Mamie?"
                    "That's the name, all right. She tossed me in the air. She did n't do a thing. I was
                        a great big mark to ever go chasin' after her in the first place. On the square, Miller, I can't
                        get wise to a girl. Too deep, too deep. Just when you think you 'vegot everything nailed
                        downbing! and it's all off, see?"
                    Miller admitted that he did n't exactly see. "Have you quarreled?" he asked.
                    "Here, I ll give you the whole business. I goes out there last night, gets there
                        about nine o'clock, and who does I meet comin' out o' the house but a cheap gazabo that was with
                        her the first time I see her. I 've told you, ain't I, how I snared her away from him?"
                    "Yes; his name was Wilson."
                    "Same boy. I told you what he was  a
                        horrible Reub; one o' them fellows that you want to get a crack at the minute you see him. You
                        kind o' feel there 's a crack comin' to him. Mame opens the door, and I goes in purty chilly,
                        too. 'Who 's your friend?' I says. She puts on as good a front as she can and says, 'That's Mr.
                        Wilson that was up to the dance that night.' 'Well,' I says, 'he must be a peach to come around
                        here after the way you turned him down.' She tries to pass it off, and says so-and-so and
                        so-and-so about him bein' soft and writin' notes to her all the time. 'Come off,' I says; 'he
                        would n't be writin' notes and comin' 'round here unless he had some pull.'"
                    "I do n't know about that, Artie," suggested Miller. "Just because a fellow calls on
                        a girl is no sign that she likes him."
                    "Yes, but this guy 's an Indian. He won 't do. He do n't belong. It made me crazy to
                        think he 'd been cuttin' in  there. Mame tried to give
                        me a con talk and that made me sore. 'Look here,' I says, 'I play no understudy to a low card.
                        Now, if you 're stuck on him I 'll cash in right here and drop out o' the game.' She said she
                        was n't stuck on him, but she could n't tell him to keep away from the house. 'If I ever find
                        him here you won't need to tell him,' I says. 'I 'll dig into him and tear him to strips. 'Then
                        she says: 'Just because I've got other gentlemen friends ain't no call for you to walk on me.'"
                    "Did she say that?"
                    "That's what she was gettin' at. I says: 'Nay, nay, Pauline; your own Willie's got to
                        be the whole thing or nothin'. An' I told her if I was beat out I wanted to be done up by
                        somebody besides a counterfeit. Then she cried and said she 'd never speak to me again, and I
                        says, 'Well, there are others, 'and with that I goes into the hallway, takes my hat  off the hook and ducks, and there you are.
                        Everything off."
                    "No, not necessarily. It seems to me that you quit her, instead of her quitting you.
                        Do n't you think you can fix it up?"
                    "Say, it might be squared," and he spoke rather
                        hopefully, "but there's only one way to fix it with me. That Indian's got to keep clear off o'
                        that street. You can make book on that."
                
                
                
                    VI
                    Artie and Miller had gone to a matinee on Saturday afternoon. They very seldom did
                        this, but it was a cold and cloudy day, and on such a day the light and warmth of the play-house
                        seemed very attractive.
                    After the third act they had walked out to the front of the house and were standing
                        in the lobby, when Bancroft Walters came in very hurriedly and started toward the box office.
                    Bancroft Walters is the second son of LaGrange Walters, who manufactures a superior
                        kind of roofing and has grown moderately rich at it.
                    Bancroft plays the banjo, appears at amateur entertainments, goes to a great many
                        parties, and probably belongs to that 
                        
                            THE TWO-SPOT
                        
                         indefinite class known as "society young men." He has
                        a desk in his father's office, but it cannot be said truly that he is held down to office hours
                        or that his salary represents the value of his actual service. He attended an eastern college
                        for two years, and then came home for some reason, which perhaps only his fond and trusting
                        mother could satisfactorily explain.
                    She knows it was the fault of the college.
                    Bancroft is inclined to be dapper, talkative and wonderfully full of self-assurance.
                        Then he has that gift of not discovering that most people regard him as a very ordinary sort of
                        person.
                    When Bancroft saw Miller and Artie he smiled and said, "Hello, men,"
                    "Why, how do you do, Mr. Walters? "replied Miller.
                    Artie said nothing.
                    Bancroft bought his seats and then  walked
                        over to Artie and slapped him on the back.
                    "Well, Artie, have you seen any good mills lately?"he asked.
                    Artie shrugged his shoulders, tightened his lips and said nothing.
                    Even then young Mr. Walters did not know that trouble was breeding.
                    "I haven't seen you for a longtime, Artie."
                    "I seen you since you seen me," replied Artie."
                    "Is that so?"
                    "Yes, and I want to tell you somethin' Banny. You 're nothin' but a two-spot. You 're
                        the smallest thing in the deck. Say, I see barrel-house boys goin' around for hand-outs that was
                        more on the level than you are. Now, I 'll put you next to one thing; I want nothin' to do with
                        you, because I 'm on. I know you see?"
                    "What do you know? What do you  mean?"
                        Bancroft was frowning fiercely, but he was also very red.
                    "Chee-e-ese it! You know what I mean. You can't do nothin' like that to me and then
                        come around afterwards and jolly me. Not in a million! I 'll tell you, you 're a two-spot, and
                        if you come into the same part o' town with me I 'll change your face. There's only one way to
                        get back at you people."
                    "I guess I know what you 're talking about now, but I do n't see that I 'm called on
                        to make any explanations," said Walters, who was recovering his voice.
                    "I do n't want no explanations. I pass you up. All I say is, keep away. I want to mix
                        with white people. I 'm very foolish about that, of course, but it's a way I 've got. You 're a
                        nice boy, but your work is very coarse, and I'm givin' it to you right when I say that I 've got
                        a license at this minute to give you a good swift punch."
                    
                    "Hold on, Artie," exclaimed Miller, seizing his friend by the arm. Miller was pale.
                        He interfered at the right moment, for Artie's anger was up and his fist was in readiness.
                        Walters suddenly turned up his collar and said, in a voice trembling with rage: "I 'm not going
                        to have any trouble in this kind of a place."
                    Then he turned and walked away with the best show of dignity at his command, while
                        Miller still held Artie by the arm and stared at him.
                    For once he believed Artie to be in the wrong. Bancroft had come up and spoken
                        pleasantly enough, and in return Artie had played the part of a bully seeking a pretext for a
                        fight.
                    "What made you act that way?" he demanded.
                    "Do you know that boy?"
                    "Well, I ve met him."
                    "Yes, but you do n't half know him.
                    
                    I ought o' smashed him before he opened his face."
                    "What's the trouble between you?"
                    "Oh, well, let it drop. He knows, though. He knows. And I think he 'll remember two
                        or three things I told him. Come on in and let's see the rest of the show."
                    They did not enjoy the last act of the play.
                    Artie was still simmering with indignation, and he was also worried to think that
                        Miller had been offended. As for Miller, he could only wonder that Artie had shown such a fierce
                        disposition to fight when there was no apparent provocation.
                    As they were leaving the theater Artie said: "I think I 'll just tell you why I 've
                        got it in for that Charley boy. I ain't stuck on tellin' it, for it made me look like a monkey."
                    "I could n't imagine what was the  matter,"
                        said Miller. "Walters always seemed to me to be a nice sort of fellow that is, harmless."
                    "Harmless? He threw the boots into me the worst I ever got 'em. Ooh! He made me feel
                        like a tramp. Say, Miller, if I was to beat his whole face off I could n't ketch even. He got
                        way under the skin on me. Now, this is on the q. t., but did you ever get the worst of it in
                        such a way that you could n't come back at the time, and yet you was so crazy mad that you could
                        'a' cried? Well, that was me."
                    "I'm surprised."
                    "Was n't I? W'y, I went to school with that guy out on the South Side when my old man
                        had a job in the foundry and old Walters was just beginnin' to get a little dough. The family
                        did n't put on no such lugs in them days. But then, there's no roar comin" on that, because the
                        old man's as common as dirt, and this  same two-spot's
                        got a sister that can have my seat in the car any time she comes in. I ain't one o' them beefers
                        that's got it in for people just because they've got the coin and make a front with it. I'm out
                        for the stuff myself. But I do hate to see any of 'em get swelled on account of it."
                    "Well, now," said Miller, "it never seemed to me that Walters was that kind."
                    "That's what knocked me the twister. I thought this fellow was all right. I 've known
                        him to speak to ever since we learned to smoke cigarettes together back o' the car barns. Here
                        not more 'n six months ago he comes into a restaurant where I was settin'. He was with a lot o'
                        them Prairie avenue boys, and purty soon he ducks 'em and comes over an' touches me for two
                        cases. Now, you know you can't go up and bone a stranger for stuff, can you? He knew me well
                        enough to get the two."
                    
                    "Did he pay it back?"
                    "Sure he did. I ain't sayin' that he's crooked. I '11 tell you when he give it back
                        to me. It was one night out at the boat club when we was havin' some bouts there. I brought over
                        a handy boy from the West Side to put him against a little fellow from the boxin' school. They
                        told me over west the boy was a worldbeater, but, gee! this North-Sider made a choppin' block
                        out of him. What I was goin' to get at was that Banny was there."
                    "Who's Banny?"
                    "That's his name. We used to call him that when he was a kid. Well, he was out there
                        that night bettin' all kinds o' talk, and you 'd thought I was his longlost brother. He stood
                        around the corner where I was handlin' my man, and it was 'Artie' this and 'Artie' that all the
                        time. He loved me that night. Mebbe that's because he had a few under his belt, but  anyway it went with me. I thought the boy was all
                        right."
                    Artie paused in his story and put a large cigar into his mouth. Miller reached into
                        his pocket for a match, but Artie shook his head.
                    "This is how I found the streak o' yellow in him," said he. "One afternoon the boss
                        sent me out to Grand Crossin' to see a man. I stayed for supper out there and was comin" in on
                        the train along towards eight o'clock. At one o' them stations out there, here comes a whole
                        crowd o' people a lot o' swell girls and their fly boys. The car was nearly full. I "m alone in
                        a double seat, see? A girl comes runnin' down the aisle and sets down right across from me and
                        says, 'Hurry up and grab this place.' Then who comes up and drops into the seat with her but
                        Banny, understand? I 'm readin' the paper, but I drops it and makes the horrible play. I lifts
                        my derby clear off o' my head ard I  says: 'Good
                        evening!' Say, he was four feet away. Say, it was just like you there and me here. This queen
                        with him sees me make the play and kind o' giggles. Mebbe I did n't do it right. But him he
                        turned around sideways in his seat and begins chinnin' her and never sees me at all. Course, you
                        could n't expect him to. I was nearly three feet away and lookin' right at him. Miller, this is
                        straight, so help me. He threw me down. He 'd never seen me before. All because he was out with
                        the swell push and had this queen with him. I pulled the paper up in front o' me, and I thought
                        my ears "d fry and fall off. I was groggy. Never did I get it harder. Talk about a half-hook on
                        the point o' the jaw!"
                    "It was a confounded shame," said Miller, warmly.
                    "Say, Miller, am I a vag? Am I fit to ride on a train with other people? Would a man
                        queer himself by speakin'  to me? Now, I did n't
                        expect no knockdown to his girl. I do n't trot in her class. But to think of that stiff turnin'
                        on me because I spoke to him. That's what put the hooks into me. I won't forget itnever. I was
                        sore, but it was worse 'n that. It made me feel rotten."
                    "I 'm not surprised."
                    "Well, I did n't see him again till today. You heard what I said. Well, at that, he
                        's got the best of it. I never will be able to give him the right kind of a hot come-back for
                        what he done to me."
                
                
                
                    VII
                    One Saturday afternoon Artie Blanchard was enjoying his half-holiday in a manner
                        peculiar to himself. He was battling with the crowd in State street.
                    He had his coat-collar turned up and his hat was pulled rakishly forward so that it
                        threatened to produce friction with his eyebrows every time he changed the expression of his
                        face.
                    He was whistling a little composition that had lately taken possession of his
                        thoughtful moments. It was entitled "I 'll Be True to My Honey Boy."
                    Artie did not know the tune or the words, so he merely whistled it on speculation and
                        when he came to the doubtful parts he hurdled.
                    
                    
                        THE CONNELLY GIRLS
                    
                    
                    When he grew tired of whistling he smoked a black cigar.
                    Artie was apparently at peace with the world and any one to have seen him shift his
                        cigar from the right pocket of his mouth to the left merely by the play of facial muscles would
                        have said, "Here 's a young man content."
                    But Artie, like many other young persons, never whistled more cheerfully, smoked more
                        hungrily and looked into show windows with more seeming interest than when he was keeping
                        company with a great sorrow.
                    It could have been nothing less than the guiding hand of Fate that shoved him around
                        a bevy of women who were carrying bundles and looking at show windows at the same time, thus
                        contriving to mow down anything and anybody that happened in their way. For Artie immediately
                        got a view of the cause of his sorrow. He would have known her by the sacque  alone, but the sprig of plumes on the hat helped in
                        the identification.
                    Your ordinary lover would have retreated, palpitating. Considering that when Artie
                        had last seen her she was all tears and that his parting words had been, "There are others," it
                        would have been proper for him to drop back into the moving crowd before she turned from the
                        display of precious furs and saw him there looking at her.
                    But Artie did nothing of the kind.
                    He walked up to her, brushed some imaginary dust from the bulge of her sleeve, and
                        said: "Hello, girlerino! How's everything stackin'?"
                    Mamie turned around and there was a leap of color to her face.
                    She said: "Why, Mr. Blanchard."
                    "What was you pipin'[offthe furs?" asked Artie.
                    "Yes," with her face half-turned from him.
                    
                    "Do you see the big sealskin sacque there? I was lookin' at it the other day. I 'm
                        thinkin" o' buyin' it for a lady friend o' mine."
                    "Indeed!"
                    By this time she had recovered some-what and she spoke with an evident attempt to be
                        coldly sarcastic.
                    "You heard me, did n't you? I went in and asked the main squeeze o' the works how
                        much the sacque meant to him, and he said I could have it for four hundred samoleons. 'Well,' I
                        says, 'that 's a mere bagatelle to me. That would n't keep me in shirt-studs for a month.'"
                    He paused for a moment or two, watching her all the time, and then he said: "But
                        mebbe you 'd rather have that other one up there. You know what you 'd like."
                    Mamie did not look at him and she did not answer. Artie's attempted playfulness was
                        too bearish for her, and Artie  seemed suddenly to
                        realize this. He changed his tactics.
                    "Mame," he said, putting his forefinger softly against her arm.
                    "Well?"
                    "Is it fixed up?"
                    "Is what fixed up?"
                    "You know."
                    "No, I do n't."
                    They were standing side by side, both looking intently into the show-window and
                        talking to it. Their conduct was sufficiently strange to have attracted the attention of the
                        people who brushed against them. But in State street the pedestrians will not give their serious
                        attention to a man unless he does something worthy such as falling off a cable car or colliding
                        with the tongue of a wagon.
                    "How about my little old picture? Is it turned to the wall?"
                    "I guess not."
                    
                    "Oh, you 're guessin' are you? Well, I s 'pose the other boy's fillin' all my dates?"
                    "That silly thing!"
                    Artie chirruped as if skeptical. "He 's a nice boy," said he, and he added, after a
                        deep sigh, "Nit not."
                    Mamie turned to him, and, in a quick flame of earnestness, said: "Artie, you know I
                        can't bear that old thing, and I 'll never speak to him again as long as I live." She had tears
                        in her eyes.
                    "You won't be loser anything at that."
                    "I 'm going to write to him and let him know something."
                    "Why, no; not at all. I 've told you all along that if you 'd give me his address I
                        'd go around and fix it all up with him."
                    "If it had n't been for him we would n't have "
                    "Would n't have put on the gloves, eh? Well, come on. Let's be movin'."
                    
                    He took her by the arm, and then he remembered that it was State street and three
                        o'clock in the afternoon, so he let go
                    "I have to meet the Connelly girls in a few minutes. I promised them."
                    "Shake 'em. You 've got somethin' better than the Connelly girls."
                    Mamie gave him a vicious nudge in the ribs and broke out laughing, and the war was
                        then and there over, before the tears had dried.
                    "About Tuesday night, Mame?"
                    "Yes or Monday."
                    "Good enough. An' now you come right in here and get into line with a bunch o'
                        violets. There 's nothin' too rich for the sunshine o' the North Side."
                    It was not the same Mamie who came out of the florist's wearing violets, and it was
                        not the same Artie who was grinning at her delight over the little present.
                    
                    "Now, I must go for the Connelly girls," said she.
                    "All right. Say, Mame."
                    "Yes."
                    "I 'll just make that to-morrow night."
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    At eight o'clock the front room was gently baking with heat from the base-burner, and
                        the gas-jet, with four scalloped dance programmes dangling from it, was lighted to the utmost.
                    On the marble-topped table was the photograph of a tense young man with plastered
                        hair. The picture lay against a metallic prop of fanciful design which was intrenched between
                        the album and a copy of "Lucille." The swollen furniture was ornately jig-sawed and confined in
                        plush, and every piece of it was modestly backed up against the wall.
                    The crayon portrait of Mamie's father looked down benignly on this room cleared for
                        action. The portrait represented a bearded fop with a fantastic forelock, a 
                        
                            THE INDIAN
                        
                         neck-tie spotted with great accuracy and a
                        shirt-front bearing a lump of gold. On two or three occasions of his life, Mamie's father had
                        borne an approximate resemblance to the man in the frame.
                    One occasion was that of the visit to the photographer's and the other was that of
                        the social reception to the executive committee of the Union. In the picture Mamie's father was
                        clean and unwrinkled and he bore a placid, maiden-like expression which Mamie had seldom
                        observed in him.
                    The crayon portrait had originally been a bargain for $2.50, and the agent who
                        delivered it had put in a frame at $14. The frame was a boiling foliage of white and silver.
                        With such a picture in the house there was no chance for Mamie to lose regard for her father. As
                        for the father, he escaped an affliction of pride by remaining in other rooms of the house.
                    This crayon portrait dwarfed the "Yard  of
                        Roses," the "Wide-A wake" and "Fast Asleep" prints and the other pictures hanging on the walls.
                        It was the luminous thing of the front parlor, and it was to the portrait that Artie Blanchard
                        addressed himself as he came in from the hallway, with his arm lingering at Mamie's waist,
                        half-way between a caress and a hug. "Hello, old boy," said he, and then he asked Mamie, "How
                        does the old gentleman stack up?"
                    "He's back there now, reading the paper."
                    "All right. I was n't lookin' for him."
                    Artie pulled out a chair and seated himself in it sidewise. He happened to see the
                        photograph on the table.
                    Artie " Well, I 'm not turned to the wall, eh?"
                    Mamie "Do n't begin talking that way."
                    Artie"I was just kiddin' Mame. How's the ma-mah?"
                    
                    Mamie "She was asking about you to-day."
                    Artie "Say, on the square, has she got any time for me?"
                    Mamie (warmly) "Why, of course. She likes you."
                    Artie "Well, the ma-mah's got a cold eye in her head. I can't make out whether I 'm
                        strong or not. She ain't the kind of a girl that 'd be afraid to say a few things if she wanted
                        to."
                    Mamie "Pooh!"
                    Artie "How about the ringer?"
                    Mamie " What's that?"
                    Artie "You know that guy you was goin' to frost. Have you wrote to him?"
                    Mamie (excitedly) "You mean Mr. Wilson. I have n't told you, have I?"
                    Artie " Well, I should say not. Has he been trailin' you again?"
                    Mamie "No, but he wrote to me.
                    
                    It 's the funniest thing you ever read. I '11 get you the letter."
                    Artie "Gee! That boy's a stayer. If he do n't keep off o' my route there '11 be
                        people walkin' slow behind him one o' these days. Let's see what he says."
                    
                        (Mamie goes to the adjoining room and returns with a letter and offers
                            it to Artie?)
                    
                    Artie "Go on and spiel."
                    Mamie (with a nervous giggle as a preliminary) " Well,
                        he begins by saying, 'Miss Mary Carroll, My Dear Madam.'"
                    Artie "'My Dear Madam.' Wouldn't that cook you, though?"
                    Mamie "Listen." (Reads)
                    "I do not know why you should have treated me as you have done. I have always
                        regarded you as a friend, but of late I have come to the opinion that you desire to sever our
                        friendship, seeing that you did not speak when I met you last Sunday eve. If you have anything
                        against me I would like to know in what regards I have not treated you right and  like a lady. I am very truly, your obedient servant.
                        GRANT WILSON."
                    Artie " That's a good thing. I wonder where he got next to that fancy pass about
                        severin' friendships. I '11 make that foxy boy think somebody 's severed him if I take a crack
                        at him. Did you answer it, Mame?"
                    Mamie "Not yet. Would you?"
                    Artie " Sure! I 'd send him one that 'd burn a hole in the mail-sack. You get your
                        little old sheet of paper and I '11 tip you off a few things to tell that boy. I' 11 bet you all
                        kinds of money that I can send him somethin' that he '11 talk about in his sleep. You get the
                        paper."
                    (Mamie goes to the next room and returns with writing material. She removes the
                        photograph album and then seats herself at the table ready to write. An attack of the giggles.)
                    Artie "Chop the laughin'. Go on and write to him. I '11 tell you what to  say. Just begin this way, 'You 're all right but you
                        won't do.'"
                    Mamie"No, no, Artie, please no. I do n't want to say it that way. Besides, I 've got
                        to address him first. Now, what shall I call him?"
                    Artie" You could call him a good many things and make no error, I '11 tell you
                        those."
                    Mamie "I know, but shall I say 'Mr. Wilson, Sir,' or just 'Dear Sir?'"
                    Artie "Naw, not in a thousand. What do you want to jolly him for? Get in plenty o'
                        rough work right from the start. Throw it into him hard. Call him 'foolish Wilson boy.' You 've
                        got to wallop one o' them people to make 'em understand. Just say, 'Get out o' town and keep
                        quiet and you may live to see the flowers again.' If you give him that easy talk he 'll think
                        you 're leadin' him on. Let me write to his nobs and I 'll fix
                        him. (Artie takes the pen and writes for a 
                        few moments, Mamie watching him and suppressing giggles.) Now,
                        how 's this? This is the real stuff. (Reads.)
                    "' I just received your nervy letter. You are all right, but you won't do. Do not
                        come into our ward or I will have you pinched. Remember, I never saw you before in all my life.
                        You are worse than a stranger to me. I would advise you to stop smokin' that double-X brand of
                        dope, because it gives you funny dreams. By fallin' off the earth you will oblige.'"
                    Mamie (on the verge of hysterics) "Oh-h-h-h-h! What
                        would he think if I sent him a letter like that?"
                    Artie "He 'd think he was up against the cold outside, and that's where he is, huh?"
                    Mamie "Of course. You know that."
                    (Artie drops the pen, and with great caution wraps his arm
                            around her waist.)
                
                
                
                    IX
                    On that morning Artie had come in a half-hour late.
                    His "Good morning, people," was dry and husky, and after he had seated himself at his
                        desk he put his left palm up to his forehead, sighed deeply, and said, without addressing any
                        one in particular: "The boy that wrote that song about 'Oh, what a difference in the morning,'
                        was on to his job. I 've got a set o" coppers on me this g. m. that 'd heat a four-room flat and
                        my mouth tastes like a Chinese family 'd just moved out of it."
                    "Another poker party? "asked Miller.
                    "Guess again. Worse "n any poker party. A bat a real old bat. Pazoo-oo-oom! Ooh!
                        Mebbe you think I ain 't got a lulu of a head on me this morning.
                    
                    
                        THE BATTLE-AX
                    
                    
                    I ought to be out at the Washin'tonian home with the rest o' them stills and hypos."
                    "You do n't mean to say that you were loaded?" inquired Miller, leaning over his desk
                        and lowering his voice so that young Mr. Hall should not hear.
                    "To the guards. Up to here," and Artie, elevating his chin, drew a forefinger across
                        his Adam's apple.
                    "Well, I declare," said Miller, and in his voice were both sorrow and reproof.
                    "Jump on to me," said Artie, as he tried to rub the sleep out of his eyes. "You can't
                        make me feel any sorer 'n I was when I woke up this morning. My head reached out over two
                        pillows. I did n't do a thing to the water pitcher, neither. When I tossed that water into me it
                        sounded like when a blacksmith sticks a red-hot horseshoe into a tub of water. That's no dream,
                        neither."
                    "How did it happen?"
                    
                    "How does any o' them things happen? After playin' three or four games o' pool I
                        starts out to get a car and I ain't got it yet. That's always the way good thing, too. Say,
                        Miller, there ain't many men that go out huntin' a tide. It "s a case of meetin' a friend and
                        him sayin' somethin' and then another friend and he loosens, and then you come up, and then the
                        first man thaws again and nobody wants to welch on the proposition, and they keep comin' along
                        and you 're a good fellow, see? and do n't want to be a quitter, and the first thing you know
                        you 're up against it, and you do n't care whether there 's any night cars runnin' or not." "Is
                        that what happened last night?" "About it. I meets Billy Munster, and if you ever trotted a heat
                        with him you know that he 's one o'f the biggest jolliers that ever come over the hills, and
                        when it comes to bowlin'well, he pours a drink that 'd make any bar-tender quit  bein' sociable. Did you ever try his game?"
                    "I never heard of him."
                    "You 've missed a whole lot. He 's got a job over at the city hall. I never see him
                        do a stroke of work, but he can always make a flash o' the long green, and I guess it's easy
                        money, too, from the way he lets go of it. I 've heard he gets his bit on nearly every good
                        thing that comes along. What his pull is I never could figure out. Every time I see him over at
                        the city hall he 's whisperin to one o' them red,necked boys and fixin' it up to give somebody
                        the double,cross. At that, he 's a good fellow. I think he 'd mace a sucker if he got half a
                        chance, but after he got the dough he 'd spend it freely. That's the kind of a boy he is, and
                        last night he had a roll that you could 'a' stopped up a window with. The minute I meets him he
                        steers me into a joint, makes me heave in a couple 
                        and then says: 'Come on; I 've got a good thing for you.' 'Nit,' I says, because I knew his
                        gait. I says: 'I've seen enough o' them sunrises over old Lake Michigan.' 'No," he says; 'on the
                        level; we "ll just drop into the music hall and stay a little while." So I goes."
                    "You ought to have gone on home."
                    "Sure; we all know that the next day. But I goes just the same. We had n't been in
                        there ten minutes till Billy dug up a 'longshoreman with gold in her teeth and was buyin' beer
                        for her. He kept 'em comin' fast and I could n't dodge 'em. Purty soon I was joinin' in the
                        chorus, and I guess from that stage o' the game they did n't have to pull at me to keep me up
                        and comin.' When the song,bird come out to do her turn I could see two of her. I guess this girl
                        that Billy knew spotted us for a couple of easy marks, for she floated away somewhere and come
                        back with a friend o' hers."
                    
                    Artie stopped in his narrative and gave a low, buzzing whistle. "You ought to seen
                        her."
                    "Why?" asked Miller, and he had to smile in anticipation.
                    "Say, there was a battle,ax if ever you see one. She had a face on her that 'd fade
                        flowers. It had one o' them calcimine hard finishes. You can guess how far along I was when I
                        did n't shy at it. And oh, the haughty front that she put up. She said she was an actorine.
                        'What troupe?' I says. 'Well,' she says, 'at present I "m restin'.' I 'll bet a dollar she never
                        done nothin' on the stage but carry a shield, but to hear the guff she was throwin' out you 'd
                        think she could make Ellen Terry look like a Friday night amatoor. Oh, she was a bird. I think
                        her name was Gladys. If she come in this room now I 'd jump out o' that window, and last night
                        when I was sloppy I thought she was the best ever. That just goes  to show what the hop,juice '11 do for you."
                    "How long did you stay there?"
                    "Till the whole works was closed. I bought drinks for this pelican friend o' mine
                        till she hollered for me to stop, and then I says to Billy, I says: 'Let's take the ladies out
                        and give 'em a little supper.' That was me said that, understand? It was only a little after
                        mid-night, you know,the mere shank o' the evening,and I could n't think o' startin' home as
                        early as that. Oh, no. Little Artie had to go and give the ladies some supper. You know how
                        liberal a guy is about that time o' night. He do n't like to take no money home with him. Billy
                        was right with me, of course. He 's a stayer from Stayersville. We got out o' the music hall I
                        remember that , and the next thing I can cipher out was that we got to the restaurant and I was
                        pleadin' with my tall friend to just go right ahead 
                        and order anything she wanted. Well, she was fly enough to do that. Little Gladys was more 'n
                        seven. I think it 'd be about an even,money break that she 's seven times seven. She ordered
                        nearly everything on the bill and I guess I went to sleep with my face in a plate. That's after
                        Billy had ordered two or three more rounds. Oh, he 's a wonder, that boy. I do n't know where he
                        stows it."
                    Artie took a full breath and once more felt of his head.
                    "That's about all I remember," said he, "except payin' the check and havin' Billy
                        take me over to the hotel. It must 'a' been three o'clock when I got to bed and I pounded my ear
                        till past seven. I 've had a nice breakfast. It was a tall tub o' seltzer lemonade. Talk about
                        old R. E. Morse; I'm full of it this morning. This is the first time I 've had a day-after head
                        in many moons, and if you ever ketch me with another one you  can take a ball club and hammer the life out o' me. Now, that goes."
                    "What do you think Mamie would say if she knew you had been out with this other
                        girl?" asked Miller, rather severely.
                    "Stop it, Miller. Do n't go to rubbin' it in. I got trouble enough to,day without
                        thinkin' o' that. If she 'd ever saw me with that fairy I would n't be deuce high with her now.
                        You could n't blame her neither. What do you think of a chump that 'd pass up a four,time winner
                        to go and play his money against a sellin' plater, and a has,been at that? I did n't put you on
                        to the good thing though, did I? Last night I had nine cases. This morning when I frisked myself
                        I could n't turn up only sixty cents. I just fed eight big iron louies into that game last
                        night. I do n't know how I 'll ever keep up the bluff o' workin' to,day. How do I look?"
                    '.You look knocked out."
                    "Well, I feel the part."
                    
                    
                        MR. CARROLL
                    
                
                
                
                    X
                    "I 've got it to do," said Artie, "and I s 'pose I 'd better put on the best front I
                        can and play it out."
                    "There 's nothing to be afraid of," suggested Miller.
                    "Do n't tell me nothin' about that game. I know just what it 'll be. On the dead, I
                        'd give a ten,case note to be out of it, but Mame would n't have it that way. She said she 'd
                        promised the Connelly girl, and there you are. I 'm goin' to be the head knocker in the push.
                        It's a case of gettin' a day off and seein' the thing through from soda to hock. We got to meet
                        at the house and go from there in a carriage."
                    "You 'll enjoy it," said Miller, smiling.
                    "What, doin' the slow march up the  aisle
                        and then standin' there while the main guy spiels and all that business? Not on your tintype. I
                        'll make a miscue somewhere; you see if I do n't."
                    "You 'd better get used to it and find out how it 's done. Some of these days you 'll
                        have to go through the mill yourself."
                    "Say, that's what I told Mame, and you ought o' seen her. She blushed up and got
                        rattled and could n't say a word."
                    "She understood what you meant, did n't she?"
                    "Well, I guess she was keen enough to make a good, warm guess at it."
                    Miller gazed at Artie for a few moments and then said: "It's none of my business,
                        Artie, but you two are engaged, are n't you?"
                    Artie swallowed something and seemed to be considerably embarrassed.
                    "Miller," said he, confidentially,"you've asked me a hard one. On the level, I  do n't know whether we 've got it fixed up or not.
                        You know my style of play. I can kid all right, but when it conies to makin' a dead serious play
                        I 'm a horrible frost. I 'm the worst that ever come up the pike. Between you and me and the
                        desk here, I think she knows that it's goin' to be a marry as soon as things come right. But as
                        for me ever comin' to the scratch and sayin', 'Here, how it is? Do you want to open my mail?
                        'w'y, I never had the face to do it yet."
                    "I thought you had nerve enough to do anything."
                    "Miller, let me put you next to some,thin'. I know a bad man on the West Side that
                        can lick his weight in wildcats and bluff" any four or five common dubs, and he 's got a wife
                        that weighs about ninety pounds that 'll give him just one look and he 'll crawl under a table.
                        He 's dead stuck on her, and she can do anything she wants to with him. It ain't that he  ain't got nerve enough. What is it, then? Huh?"
                    "You're getting too deep for me, Artie," said Miller, shaking his head. "What I meant
                        was that I thought you knew Mamie so well you could be perfectly free and candid with her."
                    "I'm an easy runner till it conies to the high jump and then I quit cold. I can jolly
                        and have fun and put my arm around her, but when it comes to takin' her by the mit and doin' the
                        straight talk nit, and again nit. Two or three times here lately I've said to myself: 'W'y, you
                        big stiff, brace up and get through with it before you go daffy.' Then I think I'm all right,
                        see? But as soon as I get with her all that brace fades on me and I say: 'What's the good? Next
                        week'll do just as well.' Besides, would n't I make a picture if she'd stand me off?"
                    "It seems to me that when she asked  you to
                        stand up with her at this wedding that was about as strong a hint as you could ask. You do n't
                        expect her to come right out, do you?"
                    "No, but I feel a good deal like a guy that I meet out at the boat club. He says that
                        if he asked a girl to marry him and she said 'yes,' he'd begin to think her judgment was purty
                        rotten. I do n't s'pose anybody on top of earth can beat my time with Mame, but what she sees in
                        me to get stuck on is what keeps your Willie boy guessin'."
                    "What does any woman see in any man?" asked Miller, gravely, somewhat gratified that
                        Artie had taken up with a social theme of such magnitude.
                    "Sometimes she sees a roll o' the long green," replied Artie, "but Mame must have
                        good eyesight if she can find any pile belongin' to me. You can turn them X rays on to my
                        bank-book and not find enough dough to fit up a flat."
                    
                    "She's not after your money."
                    "No, you can gamble she ain't. I s'pose it's because I'm young and good."
                    "Yes, because you never drink or stay out nights."
                    "Break away! I'm tryin' to forget all about that. That's one reason I give in to Mame
                        on this weddin' proposition. I felt so ornery about the night that me and Munster laid open the
                        town that I'd 'a' done most anything to get even with myself. She said the Connelly girl and her
                        had gone to school together and had been travelin' as a team, and that Florence would n't have
                        nobody else to play first mate when the thing was pulled off. And she says: 'You do n't want
                        nobody else to stand up with me, do you?' That kind o' jolted, and I told her I was n't stuck on
                        puttin' in an understudy, and so I promised to go agains? the game."
                    
                    "Do you know this girl that's to be married?"
                    "I've seen her two or three times, but she always had the mash along. The two of 'em
                        went with Mame and me over to Turner Hall one night. Oh, but they was gone on each other. His
                        name's Tommy Bradshaw and he runs a cigar store. They say he does a nice little business and
                        belongs with the real boys, but every time I ever see him he was a lobster. You could n't drag
                        him more 'n six feet away from his sure thing. He kept tab on her every minute. He'd set there
                        holdin' her fan and whisperin' to her, and he did n't want no one else to cut in. I thought his
                        work was very coarse. There's no need of a man goin' nanny just because he's copped out a nice
                        girl all for himself."
                    "Well, Artie, when a man's in love you can't hold him accountable."
                    
                    "That's no dream, neither. Any one that's got his head full o' the girl proposition's
                        liable to go off his trolley at the first curve. I would n't 've believed it six months ago, but
                        if that North Side wonder'd turn on me now and gi' me the marble heart, I tell you it's a safe.
                        money guess that I'd go and jump in the lake."
                    "Yes, and your old friend Wilson would be back courting Mamie."
                    "Yes, he would, would he? If she ever passes me up it'll be for some guy that hauls a
                        good deal more freight than that Indian does."
                    
                    
                        TOMMY
                    
                
                
                
                    XI
                    A large yellow rose drooped from Artie's lapel as he came into the office on Thursday
                        morning.
                    "Hark, I think I hear them weddin' bells.
                    'I'ingaly-ting, tingaly-ting, Ling-ting-ting."
                    As he sung this, he put one hand behind his ear and stood in the listening attitude
                        so commonly affected by neat song-and-dance artists.
                    "Aha! The best man, I believe?" said Miller, moving back from his desk and regarding
                        Artie's specialty with keen delight.
                    "You know it," replied Artie," you know it. I was the stroke oar at the doin's, and
                        while I ain't throwin' any bouquets at myself I must say that me and Maine was the hit o' the
                        piece."
                    
                    "You got through all right, then?"
                    "A little slow on the get-away, but I made a Garrison finish. I was runnin' in
                        strange company, too, but as soon as I got the pace they could n't head me."
                    "Tell me all about it. You and Mamie really stood up with them, did you?"
                    "Did we? Ain't I tellin' you that we done the pacemakin'? I give Mame a wad o' roses
                        that laid over anything the bride could flash, and mebbe you think she was n't in good form. Oh,
                        doctor! She looked out o' sight! Some of'em have got their sealskins and their sparklers, but
                        this little girl, with that new make-up and the flowers, beat the best of'em. I'll back her
                        against all comers, bar none. Talk about your peaches, why, she's a whole orchard! That's no
                        Hungarian joke, neither."
                    "By George, Artie, you are hard hit," said Miller, laughing.
                    "You're dead right there, an' I make  no
                        bones about it. She's got me landed and strung. Say, you must think I'm a prize gilly to set
                        around here and give up my insides to you about her, but I'll tell you, Miller, you're the only
                        man that I'd tell some things to, and I cough up to you because I know that you're a good fellow
                        and understand that puttin' aside all this kid talk"
                    "That's all right, Artie. You need n't be afraid of me telling any one. There is
                        nothing to be ashamed of, anyway. Every man falls in love sooner or later."
                    "Love! There's a word that makes me weary, but on the square, that's what I've got.
                        It's a sure-enough case. Where's Hall?"
                    "I think he's out collecting to-day."
                    "I'm glad of it. I do n't like to say too much in front o' that boy. He do n't know
                        any more'n the law allows, and since he's started to that dancin' school I think he hears funny
                        noises under his bonnet."
                    
                    "Are you going to tell me about that wedding?" asked Miller, impatiently.
                    "Well, it was a bird. We did n't break into the sassiety notes, but that cuts no ice
                        in our set. It took all day to pull it off. Marne told me to come straight to the Connelly
                        house, because she had to go there early in the morning. Her and the other Connelly girl was
                        handlin' the bride. It was nearly ten o'clock when I got there, and there was a big push in the
                        front room Mame's mother, old man Connelly, Mrs. Connelly, Tommy Bradshawhe was the main guy,
                        you know one o' Tommy's brothers from the South Side and a chilly mug by the name of Parker,
                        some relation to Tommy. This frosty party was doin' the touch-me-not business all day, an' you
                        could n't get him to take his gloves off. Tommy new suit, new white necktie, new dicer, new
                        shoes. When he'd lean back and throw one leg over the other,  just to show that he was takin' it dead easy, you could see the yellow soles
                        o' them shoes. He was washed and combed till he did n't look right. Say, you could smell the
                        bay-rum clear across the room. I think he overdone it, myself. And say, you ought o' seen him
                        when Mame's mother started to throw the harpoon into him."
                    "The harpoon?" inquired Miller. He had known Artie for a long time, but occasionally
                        the boy was too versatile for him.
                    "Sure, the stringin' business. That old girl 's a wonder. You see, here was Mrs.
                        Connelly settin' there snifflin' and drippin' around as if she was goin' to bury the daughter
                        instead of stakin' her to a cigar store. That worried old man Connelly, and so Mame's mother
                        tried to jolly the crowd up by playin' horse with Tommy. She 'd say: 'Well, Mr. Bradshaw, you
                        're a very handsome man in  your new clothes,' and
                        then throw me the wink. Then she 'd ask him if he 'd back out if he had the chance and how many
                        girls he 'd been engaged to before. She had him balled up till he could n't say a word. No use,
                        though; Mrs. Connelly kept moppin' her eyes and every little while sayin' 'Ah-h-h-h,' like that.
                        I guess it was n't put on, though. She was probably broke up. Women are different."
                    "Oh, yes," assented Miller, "she hated to lose her daughter."
                    "I do n't believe it was that. She claimed it was the happiest day of her life, and
                        then as soon as she said it she commenced to leak again. But you ought 'o seen old man Connelly.
                        Oh, he's a great old tadhas charge o'the wagons for one o' them Franklin street wholesale
                        houses. They say he makes good money. Well, yesterday he was up against a new proposition. He
                        was all togged out and  had a collar that was chokin'
                        the life out of him. All he could do was to wipe his mouth on the back of his mit and kind o'
                        trail after the others. What do you think? At the church he wanted to slide into a back seat and
                        let the rest of us go up front. 'Come on,' I says; 'be a good fellow and stay with us.' He said
                        he could see all right from where he was, but his wife yanked him out and made him stick."
                    "When did you get to the church?"
                    "It was after twelve o'clock, all right. W'y, we give a parade three carriages we
                        had. I had n't hardly had a chance to see Mame in her new clothes till we got in the carriage
                        with Florence and Tommy. Florence had about twenty yards o' this mosquito-bar stuff hangin" to
                        her and was made up great, but even at that she could n't get better 'n place with Mame in the
                        runnin'. She 's a nice girl, though. I do n't want to back-cap  her. She was rattled and so was Tommy. All the way to the church they did n't
                        say more 'n twenty words, and that was about how glad she was the sun had come out and wantin'
                        to know if Mr. Parker was in the carriage behind. Tommy grinned and looked foolish. To tell the
                        truth I got kind o' nanny myself when we stopped in front of the church and piled out. Mame was
                        all right, though. She froze to me and steered me through without an error. There was a wait
                        just inside when old man Connelly balked on 'em, but after that everything went smooth. About a
                        dozen ringers followed us in and stood around rubberin'"
                    "Well, what did you have to do?" inquired Miller, with growing interest.
                    "I done nothin' but stick to Mame. All but us four got planted in front seats and
                        looked on. There was a long spiel by the high guy in the pulpit, and we shifted two or three
                        times, and that's about  all I know, except that
                        Tommy agreed to a lot o' business that's enough to set any boy a-thinkin' if he goes against the
                        game. Oh, I forgot. It was right in the dead serious part, just when Florence and Tommy put
                        their lunch-hooks together. 'They 're off,' I whispered to Mame, and she came purt' near bustin'
                        out and queerin' the whole act. She roasted me good and hard for it afterwards."
                    "What did you do after the ceremony?"
                    "Say, the ceremony was just the first part o' the show. When we got out o' the church
                        Florence's mother was cryin' again and kissin' everybody except me and the old man. We ducked on
                        her. They loaded up the carriages again and all but us four went back to the house. We went over
                        to get some photographs."
                    "Oh, I see."
                    "Well, I should say so. You 've always got to have one o' them bride-and-groom
                        pictures in the house whether  there's anything to
                        chew or not. They wanted me and Mame to go along, so we rode over and watched 'em. Tommy was all
                        right by that time. He 'd got his nerve back, and he was real Charley-horse' joshin' me and
                        Mame, and sayin: 'That's. all right. Some time I'll come and see you two hitched up.' Was n't
                        that a raw deal, huh? There I was I'd never said nothin' to Mame about the marry deal, and he
                        was takin' it for granted that everything was set. He was too new about it. I never did like his
                        work. But Mamesay, she passed it off smoother'n silk. She just give him the ha-ha and says:
                        'That 'll be all right. You 'll get your bid when the shootin' match comes off.'"
                    "She did n't call it a 'shooting-match'?"
                    "Naw! I'm just tellin' you, you know. Well, they got their pictures, her a settin'
                        down with the flowers in her lap and him  standin'
                        behind with one of his fins kind o' hid in that mosquito bar. Then we all drove back to the
                        house to feed our faces."
                    "Oh, you had a wedding dinner?"
                    "Did we? That was where I cut loose. That was where I got good. I made a speech, just
                        for a kid, you know, but it started 'emall but that cold guy. I did n't get away till nine
                        o'clock. We fed an' then we smoked and danced, and old man Connelly played the flute rotten,
                        thank you. Mame was the star, too. Do n't forget it. Honest, we had a good time. Them people up
                        there's good enough for me. No frills, but they 're on the level, and when it comes down to
                        cases they 're just as good as a lot of people that make a bigger front. They got hearts in the
                        right place. It's like a man out at the boat club says, 'If you can't travel with the bell-cows,
                        why stick to the gang.' That's wise talk, too."
                
                
                
                    XII
                    After a hurried luncheon at one of the places where patrons help themselves and
                        compute their own checks, Miller and Artie took a walk on the sunny side of the street.
                    Artie was not as talkative as usual, and, as Miller seldom did more than encourage a
                        conversation once started, the two sauntered for several minutes in silence.
                    Then Artie spoke abruptly. "Miller," said he, "I got a hen on."
                    "What is it?"
                    "It's like this. Would you dally with politics if you thought you stood to win out a
                        good thing?"
                    "That depends. You 're not going into politics, are
                        you?"
                    "They 've got me entered, but I don't 
                        
                            THE MAIN SQUEEZE
                        
                         know whether I 'll start or not. I 'm leary of it; I
                        do n't mind tellin' you those."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Well, mebbe you won 't understand. I do n't like to feature myself, but in that
                        precinct where I hang out I 'm purty strong. I 'm a good mixer and I 've kind o' got next to the
                        live ones, and if I do say it myself I think there 's a lot of the boys that 'd vote my way if I
                        went after 'em hard. Do you know Jim Landon?"
                    "Who is he?"
                    "He 's the main squeeze in our ward, or any way he used to be. He 's one o' the
                        aldermen, and he 's out for it again, but good and scared that he can 't win out. He come to me
                        last night at Hoover's cigar store and give me a big talk. What he wants is for me to come to
                        the front for him strong. He knows I 've got a drag in the precinct, and he says if I'll jump in
                        and do what I can for him he 'll see that I got a good job in the town offices,  where I can cop out about twice what I 'm gettin'
                        now. Of course I 'm out for the long greenbut I do n't know about this deal."
                    "Does he stand a good chance of being elected?"
                    "That "s what keeps me guessin'. Two years ago he win in a walk, but this spring he
                        had to do all kinds o' funny work to get the nomination. There 's a lot o' people in the ward
                        that's got their hammers out and they 're knockin" him all they can. They "ll put a crimp in him
                        if things come their way."
                    "What's the matter with him, anyway?"
                    "Oh, they kind o' think he 's done too well. Two years ago he was on his uppers and
                        now he 's got money to burn. There 's some o' them guys out in our ward can 't make out how it
                        is that Jimmy can afford to buy wine at four bucks a throw when he 's only gettin' three a week
                             out o' the job. They say they can 't stand for
                        that kind o' work, and so there's a lot o' them church people that boosted him two years ago
                        that's out now to skin him. They 've put up a new guy against him and he 's makin' a nasty
                        fight."
                    "I don 't understand yet what they 've got against your man."
                    "W 'y, they 're crazy at him. You see two years ago he made the play that if they put
                        him in he was goin' down to the city hall and change the whole works. He was goin' to clean the
                        streets and jack up the coppers and build some more school-houses. Jimmy says to 'em:' Throw
                        things my way and I 'll be the Johnny-on-the-spot to see that everything 's on the level.' The
                        talk was so good it went. Well, you know what happened to Jimmy when he got down there with them
                        Indians and begin to see easy money. He had n't been in on the whack-up six weeks till he was
                        wearing one o' them bicycle lamps in  his neck-tie
                        and puttin' in all his time at the city hall waitin' for the easy marks to come along and throw
                        up their hands."
                    "I see. He turned out to be a boodler, eh?"
                    "I do n't see no way o' gettin' past it. I like Jimmy. He 's one o' them boys that
                        never has cold feet and there 's nothin' too good for a friend, but, by gee, I guess when it
                        comes to doin' the nice, genteel dip he belongs with the smoothest of 'em. And he learned it so
                        quick, too. Ooh!"
                    "Artie, that kind of a man is a thief and that's all you can make out of it," said
                        Miller, with presbyterian severity.
                    "Mebbe that ain't no lie, neither. He would n't go out with a piece o' lead pipe or
                        do any o' that strong-arm work, but if Jimmy saw a guy puttin' dough into his pocket he would
                        n't let on. You would n't have to feed him no knockout drops to make him take the coin, I guess.
                        But the nerve o' the boy! He  won 't never let on
                        that he 's handled any crooked money. When he was staked to the office he did n't have a sou
                        markee except what was tied up in a bum little grocery store. Now he 's got too strong to tend
                        store and his brother-in-law 's runnin' it. He do n't do a thing in the world except travel
                        around with some more o' them handy boys and lay for jack-pots. And the talk he gives you!
                        Mamma! He 's better 'n any o' them shell-workers that used to graft out at the gover'ment pier.
                        W'y, he can set down and show you dead easy that he done all that funny votin' because it was a
                        good thing for the workin' boys. Sure! That's why he wants to stay in, too so as the tax-payers
                        won 't get the short end of it. On the square, if I had his face I 'd start out sellin' them
                        gold bricks to Jaspers."
                    "You do n't mean to say that he has any chance of being elected again?"
                    "Oh, he 's got a chance all right. He 's 
                        gone right down into his kick and dug up the long green and he 's puttin' it out at the booze
                        joints. Some o' the saloons he's overlooked for a year or two, and he 's got to make good with
                        'em to keep 'em from knockin'. But he 'll have the whole push rootin' for him, and, then, of
                        course, there 's a lot more o' people say: 'Oh, well, Jim's a good fellow and he's been white
                        with me, and even if he does sandbag a few o' them rich blokies what's the diff?' I think he 's
                        got a chance, all right. I would n't like to start in and plug his game and then find myself on
                        a dead one."
                    "Artie, if you take my advice you 'll keep out of it. What do you want with a
                        political job?"
                    "Well, for one thing I want to get a bank-roll as soon as I can and this place he 's
                        holdin' out pays good money."
                    "Yes, and even if you got it you 'd be out again in a year or two and worse off than
                        ever. Besides, I would n't help no  elect a man who
                        sold his influence." Miller spoke with considerable feeling.
                    "As for that," resumed Artie, "you need n't think I like Jim Landon's way o' gettin'
                        stuff. It's just like this, though. He 's gone out of his way two or three times to do things
                        for me and fixed me for a pass to Milwaukee once, and, of course, them things count. Everybody
                        's shakin' him down this spring, and if he gets the gaff he 'll be flat on his back. If I did
                        n't know him I 'd be against him hard. But you do n't like to throw down a man that's treated
                        you right, do you?"
                    "I 've never been in politics, but I should say that no young man could have any
                        excuse for voting for a boodler."
                    "Say, now listen. It comes election day, see? I go in the place and get in one o'
                        them little private rooms and I vote for this stranger. Then I come out and meet Jimmy. He puts
                        out the hand and I go and get a cigar with him and do the friendship  act. Would n 't that be purty coarse work?"
                    "It would n't be any worse than his promising to be honest and then turning out a
                        boodler" said Miller.
                    "Well, I guess I 'll pass up the whole thing. Come to size it up, that ward 's goin'
                        to be floatin' in beer the next two weeks, and I 'm not stuck on standin' around with them boys
                        that smoke them hay-fever torches. For a man that do n't want to be a rounder, it's too much
                        like sportin' life. I did n't think you 'd O. K. the scheme. I 'll just tell Jimmy that I 'm out
                        of it. That's an awful wise move, too. I guess an easier way to get that roll 'd be to borrow a
                        nice kit o' tools and go 'round blowin' safes."
                    
                    
                        CLAUDIE
                    
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    "Where 's he at? "asked the overgrown messenger boy, who had clumped slowly along the
                        hallway and who now entered the room, leaving the door open behind him.
                    "Ain 't he good?" asked Artie, turning to Miller, who was gazing at the messenger
                        with a look of pained surprise in his eyes.
                    "Where's he at?" repeated the messenger boy.
                    He seemed rather large and old to be in the uniform, for there was a scrabble of soft
                        beard on his chin. His face and hands appeared to have been treated with fine coal-dust, his cap
                        leaned forward on one side of his head and whenever he  spoke he had to make new disposition of a large amount of chewing tobacco which he carried in
                        his mouth.
                    When he asked "Where 's he at?" he pronounced it "where 'ce," and in all his
                        subsequent talk he gave the "s "a soft and hissing sound well prolonged, to the evident
                        enjoyment of Artie and the mild wonderment of Miller.
                    "Where 's who at?" demanded Artie, adopting a frown and a harsh manner.
                    "W'y, t'e four-eyed nobs dat sent me out on t'e Sout' Side."
                    "Are you the same little boy? Would n't that frost you, though, Miller? This is
                        little Bright-eyes that took the note for Hall."
                    "Aw, what 's eatin' you?" asked the boy, giving a warlike curl to the corner of his
                        mouth.
                    "Oh, ow! listen to that. I 'll bet you 're the toughest boy that ever happened. What
                        you been doin' all day  playin' marbles for keeps or
                        standin' in front o' one o' them dime museeums?"
                    "Aw, say; you t'ink you're fly. Dat young feller sent me all t'e way to forty-t'ree
                        ninety-t'ree Callamet av'noo. I could n't get back no sooner."
                    "Who was it the note was to?"
                    "His rag, I guess."
                    "Oh-h-h-h! His rag! What do you think o' that, Miller? Ain 't this boy a bird! Can
                        you beat him? Can you tie him? Boy, you're all right."
                    "So are you dat is, from y'r head up."
                    "An' the feet down, huh? You're one o' them 'Hully chee, Chonny,' boys, ain 't you?
                        You're so tough they could n't dent you with an axe."
                    "Is dat so-o-o-o?" asked the boy, with a frightful escape of "s" and a glare such as
                        he must have used to terrify all the smaller boys at the call station.
                    "If I was as tough as you are I'd be afraid o' myself, on the level."
                    
                    "You t'ink you 're havin' sport wit' me, do n't you? I seen a lot o' dem funny mugs
                        before dis."
                    "W'y, Claudie, I would n't try to josh you. I think you 're a nice, clean boy. Ain 't
                        you goin' to take off your gloves?"
                    Miller leaned back in his chair and howled with laughter.
                    "I beg y'r pardon, Claudie," continued Artie. "I thought them was gloves you had on.
                        Gee, is them your mils? You 're a brunette, ain 't you?"
                    The messenger boy had been somewhat taken back by the allusion to his "gloves," but
                        he recovered and said, still gazing at Artie: "S-s-ay, you 're havin' all kinds o' fun wit' me,
                        ain 't you? Well, w'at you anyt'ing you say cuts no ice wit' me."
                    "You 'd better smoke up or you'll go out," suggested Artie. "You was a little slow on
                        the come-back that last time. Get on to him, Miller; he's lookin" a hole in me."
                    
                    "He has a bad eye," said Miller.
                    "Yes, and as the guy says on the stage, I do n't like his other one very well,
                        neither. I'll bet he 'd be a nasty boy in a fight. I'd hate to run against him late at night.
                        Them messenger boys is bad people. Guess what they train on."
                    "I don't know," said Miller.
                    "Cocoanut pie. That ain't no fairy tale, neither. Cocoanut pie and milk, that's what
                        they live on. I'll bet Claudie here with the face has got about three cocoanut pies wadded into
                        him now. How about it, Claudie?"
                    "Say," began the messenger boy, nodding his head slowly to emphasize his remarks,
                        "I'd give a t'ousand dollars if I had your gall."
                    "That'll be all right. Keep the change. By the way, old chap, are you lookin' for any
                        one?"
                    This was another surprise for the boy.
                    
                    "Yes-s-s, I 'm lookin' for some one," he replied.
                    "Who it is is it?"
                    "W'y, t'e fellow dat wears de windows in his face. I got a note here for him," and he
                        pulled it out of his pocket.
                    "Looks like you've been chewin' it. That's his desk over there. He got dead tired o'
                        waitin' for you and went out to tell the police you was lost. I think they 're draggin' the lake
                        for you now."
                    "Aw, go ahead; dat's right. Dere's lots o' you blokies t'ink you can have fun wit' us
                        kids."
                    "Get next to the walk, Miller; get on, get on!" exclaimed Artie, as the messenger boy
                        moved over toward Hall's desk. On the way he stopped for a moment and spat copiously into a
                        waste-basket.
                    "He walks like he had gravel in his shoes, do n't he?" said Artie. "Look at the way
                        he holds them shoulders. Ain 't he tough, though?"
                    
                    "Some day you 'll get too gay an' a guy'll give you a funny poke," remarked the
                        messenger boy, as he slowly settled into young Mr. Hall's chair and again directed what was
                        supposed to be a terrorizing stare at Artie.
                    "What did I tell you, Miller? Claudie's a scrapper. He 'd just as soon give a guy a
                        'tump in de teet' as look at him."
                    The boy gave a sniff of contempt and began an examination of the papers on Mr. Hall's
                        desk, picking up some of the letters and studying them, his lips going through the motions of
                        reading. Artie sat, with face illumined, and watched the boy. He was evidently fascinated by the
                        display of supreme impudence.
                    "Ain't there nothin' we can do for you?" he asked. "Miller's got some private letters
                        you can read when you get through over there."
                    "Aw, go chase yourself," replied the boy.
                    
                    "Well, Claudie, I've seen a good many o' you boys, but you're the best ever,"
                        remarked Artie. "If Hall's tryin' to win out any South Side lady friend I do n't see as he could
                        do better than send you out with the note. I think you'll be liked wherever you go. Gee! you 've
                        got that icehouse stare o' yours down pat. If you keep on springin' that you'll scare somebody
                        one o' these days."
                    "Aw, let go," said the boy in evident disgust. "When do I get to see t'e fellow dat
                        sets here? Won't one o' youse pay me?"
                    "Miller, pay the boy and let him go. He ain 't had any cocoanut pie for nearly an
                        hour now, have you, Willie er Claudie, I mean. What is your name, Claudie?"
                    "What's it to you?"
                    "Nothin" much, only I wanted to know. You've kind o' won me out. Here! Do n't move!
                        I'll bring the waste-basket over to you."
                    
                    At that moment young Mr. Hall came in and said: "Ah, boy, have you that note for me?"
                    "S-s-s-ure. Where you been at? You're helva duck to keep a kid waitin' here. You've
                        got 'o pay me ten cents more."
                    "Do n't be saucy," said young Mr. Hall, severely.
                    "Aw, rats!"
                    "You ain 't mad, are you, Claudie?" asked Artie, as the boy laboriously moved toward
                        the door, making noises with his feet.
                    "Oh-h-h, but you t'ink you're a kidder," replied the boy, with a sour smile.
                    "Look out! You'll step on one o' your feet there in a minute."
                    Then they heard him go clump-clump-clump out through the hall and away.
                    "Confound such a boy!" exclaimed young Mr. Hall.
                    
                    "Oh, he's all right," said Artie, "only you ain 't used to his ways."
                    "He's tough enough," suggested Miller.
                    "Yes," said Artie, "I would n't be as tough as he thinks he is not for a million
                        dollars."
                    
                    
                        THE PRESIDENT
                    
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    "Let's walk out a little while and let the wind blow on us," said Artie, when the
                        conversation had begun to lag.
                    He had found Mamie on the front stoop with her father and mother. It was the first
                        warm night of the early spring, and the tired people all along the street had come into the open
                        air, the older ones to sit around the doorways and the children to romp on the sidewalks.
                    Gas lamps are far apart in that street and the houses are much alike two stories
                        high, many of them having the high stoop that leads steeply from the sidewalk to the upper
                        story. A stranger might have had some trouble in finding the Carroll house, but Artie knew the
                        neighborhood. He collided with the children  and
                        said: "Do n't run me down, kids." There was a carnation in his but tonhole and he clicked a
                        walking-stick on the uneven sidewalk. The smell of pipe smoke, the balm of the cooler evening
                        air and the awakened cheerfulness of the street, which he had never before seen so lively,
                        harmonized with his own feelings. There was a spring song going in his heart, and when he came
                        to the Carroll stoop it strove to find utterance in words.
                    "Ain 't this a James-dandy of a night?" he asked, removing his hat. "I see all you
                        good people are takin' it in."
                    Mamie arose to greet him, and said something in a low tone to her father. Artie knew
                        what it was.
                    "Stay where you are, Mr. Carroll," said he. "I 'll grab off a place here at the end."
                    "Father was so warm he just took off his coat and came out here to enjoy his pipe,"
                        said Mamie, in way of explanation.
                    
                    "I do n't blame him. Would n't you rather have a cigar, Mr. Carroll?"
                    "Well, I do n't mind. Have y' another?"
                    "Sure thing. You need n't be afraid o' that one. It's got real tobacco in it. How are
                            you to-night, Mrs. Carroll?"
                    "I 'm all right now, but this afternoon I thought I 'd keel over. Was n't it warm?"
                    "I should say yes."
                    Then there followed some more commonplace remarks about the weather, and at the first
                        oppportunity Artie suggested taking a walk.
                    While Mamie was in the house putting on her hat Artie said: "You 've got lots o' kids
                        up this way."
                    "The German family in the next house has nine," replied Mrs. Carroll. "If father
                        could 'a' caught one o' them tow-headed young 'uns this morning there 'd only been eight left.
                        The boy built a bonfire right up against our fence.
                    
                    "He could run too fast for me," said Mr. Carroll. "Oh, but he's a terror. We have
                        some great youngsters around here. Do you want to get by me, Mamie? Look at the new hat on her."
                    Artie laughed and Mamie gave her father a playful slap on the arm.
                    "It's a hun," remarked Artie.
                    As he followed Mamie down the steps and away toward the corner he somehow felt,
                        because of the silence behind, that Mr. and Mrs. Carroll were watching him and asking themselves
                        whether he was what he pretended to be. On more than one occasion they had shown a liking for
                        him. Certainly they had trusted him. He realized keenly, and for the first time, that they had
                        been kind to him beyond anything he deserved, and with this realization came the resolve that he
                        would never do anything to cause them to change their opinions.
                    "I 'm afraid the old folks 'll think we 're  givin' 'em the shake," said he, as Mamie slipped her arm within his.
                    "No, no. They do n't mind."
                    "I guess they 're wise enough to tumble to it that I do n't come rubberin' around
                        this neighborhood every two or three nights just to see them."
                    Mamie laughed and put an added press ure on his arm. The gas-lights leaped into balls
                        of flame and Artie felt himself rising into the air. What more could he ask? And yet, as they
                        passed the corner, he was beaming foolishly and had lost his voice.
                    He had something to tell Mamie something which would be significant; something to
                        warn her of the supreme question and prepare her for it.
                    They had come into the business street, where the trolley cars ran and the light was
                        plentiful.
                    "A little more weather like this and we 'll be hittin" the park, "he observed.
                    "I 'll be glad," she replied.
                    
                    They walked in silence for few moments and then he said: "Mame, I 've got some good
                        news."
                    "For me?"
                    "Well, I s'pose you may be glad to hear it."
                    "What is it?"
                    "I got a boost in my pay."
                    "Oh, that's lovely."
                    "I 'm gettin' twenty a week now."
                    "Now I 'm jealous. All I get is eight."
                    "Say, Mame, I 'm sore to see you workin' at all."
                    "I had to do something when I got out of school, and they did n't need me around the
                        house. I would n't mind it if I had a nicer man to work for."
                    "Who is the main guy up at your place the pie-face I spoke to the day I come up to
                        see you?"
                    "Yes, that 's him."
                    "I got it in good and hard for them fellows.  Do you know, Mame, this town "s full of a lot o' two-by-four dubs that's got
                        into purty fair jobs and it's made 'em so swelled up that you want to take a crack at one of 'em
                        the minute you see him. I 'll bet that guy up in your place do n't know nothin' on earth except
                        how to hold down his measly job, and he got that doin' all the mean work around the place. It
                        does me lots o' good to call one o' them proud boys down. If I ever go up there again and he
                        makes any funny play at me I 'll come back at him so strong that he won 't know what landed on
                        him. Them fellows is counterfeits. They have to put on a horrible front so as to cover up what
                        they do n 't know. I never see one o' them fellows yet that was n't a four-flush. Take a guy
                        that bellers at kids and bluffs women and put him up against a man of his own weight and he 's a
                        cur. If I ever put up my hands against that fellow he 'd run clear to the roof to get away."
                    
                    Mame laughed and said: "You 've got him sized up just right."
                    "I 'm workin' for a square fellow," continued Artie. "He 's all right. I used to give him all kinds o' hot and cold roasts, but since he went to
                        the front for me and got my salary whooped I 've got to be with him. I 'll tell you, Mame, he 's
                        this kind. If you 'd go up to Morton to-morrow and say: 'How about it; can you take hold and run
                        the earth for a year?' he 'd put on one o' them dead easy smiles and say he could do it without
                        turnin' a hair. He's got the nerve to tackle anything. He do n't know nothin' but he do n't need
                        to as long as he can make suckers think he's all right. There's Miller I 've told you so much
                        about. He knows more about the business than Morton ever wanted to know, but Morton draws more
                        stuff just because Miller ain 't got the face. So I 've got wise to this fact: No matter  what you 've got in your hand play it as if you had
                        a royal flush for a bosom holdout. I weaken on no proposition. If they wanted me to be president
                        o' the whole shootin' match, I 'd jump in, grow some side-whiskers and put up as tall a con game
                        as that old stiff we 've got down there now. His office hours is from 11:00 to 11:30 and he
                        ain't nothin' but a hamrester when he is there."
                    Artie had become warmed up, and was walking fast. They stopped at a corner to allow a
                        drove of bicyclers to pass by, and Artie saw the red globes of a drugstore across the street.
                    "Let's have some o' the cold stuff, Mame," said he, and he led her over to the place.
                    "Give the lady some strawberry because it's red," said he to the clerk.
                    "No, you 'll not," said she. "I want chocolate ice cream."
                    
                    "Well, professor, you can make mine the same. Be a good fellow, too, when it comes to
                        droppin' in the ice cream."
                    "Oh, we put in good measure," said the red-headed boy, as he dug into the freezer.
                    "That's right. I think you 'll do a nice little business on this corner."
                    
                    
                        MILLER
                    
                
                
                
                    XV
                    "I do n't know about this, Artie," said Miller, as they alighted from the trolley
                        car. "I have no business coming out here with you."
                    "There you go again!" exclaimed Artie. "Ain 't I told you that anybody I bring stands
                        ace-high? W'y, I 've been toutin' you to Mame till she 's dead crazy to see you. Do n't go to
                        weak'nin' on me at this stage o' the game. You 're just as welcome there as you are in the
                        street."
                    "I dare say," replied Miller, with a nervous little laugh, "but I think you'll have
                        to do most of the talking."
                    "Let go of that, too. You won 't get no frozen face at this place that I 'm steerin'
                        you against. Just cut loose the same as if you was at home. I guess you  ain 't goin' to find no cracked ice in the chairs, and, as I 've told
                        you time and again, this girl ain 't stuck on frills. She comes purty near bein' able to size up
                        a guy for what he 's worth, and you and her '11 get along all right."
                    Notwithstanding these hopeful assurances, Miller was decidedly nervous as they
                        approached the Carroll house. It was only after much persuasion on the part of Artie that he had
                        been induced to come along and now that they were so near the place his apprehensions grew.
                        Miller knew a great deal, but he had never learned how to keep down his pulse and temperature
                        when he was in the presence of a young woman.
                    "Remember," said Artie, as he preceded Miller up the steps. "Do n't be leary about
                        cuttin' in. Just play you owned the house."
                    Mamie opened the door and said: "Hello, there," and then, when she saw  that Artie was not alone, she gave a small and
                        startled "Oh!"
                    "Peel your coat and put it any old place," said Artie
                        to Miller.
                    "Why, Artie," said she, reprovingly.
                    They were detained in the hallway for a few moments. Artie felt that perhaps he
                        should have presented Miller at the moment of entering, but he preferred to wait until they
                        reached the front room, where there was a full sweep of space at his command.
                    The critical moment having arrived, Mamie having retreated until she stood beneath
                        the chandelier and Miller having come in from the hall and placed himself, stolid and upright,
                        beside one of the plush chairs, Artie said "Mame, I want you to shake hands with my friend Mr.
                        Miller, the best ever. Miller, this is little Mame, the girl that makes 'em open all the windows
                        to look at her when she goes along the street."
                    
                    "I 'm so glad to meet you, Mr. Miller," said Mamie "I 've heard so much about you."
                    She extended her hand and as Miller grasped it and mumbled something, Artie very
                        facetiously remarked, "Take your corners."
                    Now, if this was his plan for causing Miller to feel perfectly at home, it was not an
                        entire success. Miller laughed rather awkwardly and backed into a chair, where he sat and smiled
                        in a fixed and helpless condition until Mamie came to his rescue.
                    "I suppose you 've learned by this time that you must n't pay any attention to what
                        Artie says," she began. "He does n't mean half he says."
                    "Here! How about this?" interrupted Artie. "You ain 't goin' to begin knockin' the
                        first thing. Pay no attention to what she says about me, Miller. Just copper it. I think she 's
                        got her roastin' clothes on to-night."
                    
                    "I 'm afraid I '11 have to believe a good many things that he has told me about you,"
                        said Miller, with an effort.
                    "What has he been telling you?"
                    "Slow up there a little. Be careful," said Artie.
                    "He said a great many complimentary things about you," persisted Miller.
                    "Who, me?" demanded Artie. "What are you tryin' to do string the poor girl? All I
                        ever told you about Mame was the time she shook me for that Indian. I 'll tell you about her,
                        Miller. I 'm good old car-fare and show-tickets when there's nobody playin" against me, but as
                        soon as any other guy gets in the game she puts me off on the sub bench. I ain 't in the play at
                        all. You 're here to-night. Am I in it? Well, I should say nit."
                    Miller laughed good-naturedly and Mamie passed off into an attack of giggles from
                        which she could not easily recover.
                    "You do n't expect me to pay much 
                        attention to you when there's any one else around, do you? "she asked with the merest suggestion
                        of a wink at Miller.
                    "Certainly not. I 'm supposed to be playin' a thinkin' part to-night. I ain't really
                        in the cast at all. I think I come on with a spear in the third act."
                    "You 've heard him talk like that before, have n't you? "asked Mamie of Miller.
                    "Oh, yes; I 've become accustomed to it."
                    "Oh, what a swipe? "exclaimed Artie. "I think I '11 have to lay quiet for awhile
                        after that. What are you doin' Miller; turnin' against metakin' her part?"
                    "My goodness, Artie, what did he say that was n't all right? "asked Mamie.
                    "There you are, Miller. She 's huntin' a scrap because I spoke cross to you. I told
                        you I would n't be in it after I brought you up here."
                    "Artie, I want you to behave. I 'm  going
                        to ask Mr. Miller all about how you carry on at the office."
                    "Oh, his conduct is very good," Miller hastened to say.
                    "That's what you boys always say about each other. Does he ever work?"
                    "Do I ever work! "Artie interrupted. "Do you think I could travel on my shape? She
                        ought to see us doin' the slave act there the first of every month; eh, Miller?"
                    "We have to work hard enough," said Miller.
                    "He 's told me all this," said Mamie; "but he 'kids' so much, as he calls it, that I
                        do n't know when he 's telling the truth and when he is n't. Why, do you know, Mr. Miller, the
                        first time I met him, he told me his name was something-or-other and that he was on the Board of
                        Trade oh, the worst string of stuff you ever heard."
                    Miller had to laugh, because he had 
                        already been told the whole story by Artie.
                    "Did you believe it? "he asked.
                    "Believe it? I should say not. He told me the worst whoppers you ever heard about how
                        much money he made and lost on the Board of Trade. What's more, just to show you the cheek of
                        that boy, the fellow that he had come over and introduce him I never saw before in all my life."
                    Miller had to laugh in earnest. Artie had told him the same story, but had claimed
                        that Mamie believed everything she heard.
                    For once Artie was red, embarrassed and at a loss to reply. He smiled feebly when
                        Miller laughed, and then he managed to say: "I guess you faked up some purty good fairy yarns
                        yourself that night."
                    "I was trying to keep up with you," said Mamie, gaily.
                    
                    Artie's grin widened and he glanced significantly at Miller.
                    "What did I tell you? "he asked. "Ain 't she a child wonder?"
                    And by that time Miller was well enough acquainted to join in and talk on many
                        topics.
                    It was after ten o'clock when they left the house and started for the car.
                    "Well, will she do?" asked Artie almost as soon as the door had closed behind them.
                    "Yes, indeed," replied Miller, warmly. "She's an awfully nice girl."
                    "Nothin' mushy, eh? None o' this soft work?"
                    "No, sir. She 's a good, sensible girl."
                    "How about her bein' a good looker?"
                    "Artie, you may think I 'm trying to flatter you, but really she is a very pretty
                        girl very pretty."
                    "Say, I tumbled that she was the real stuff the first time I ever see her. You  got next to how she give me that horrible jolt
                        about the dance, did n't you?"
                    "I should say so."
                    "Now, there 's a wise girl. She knew awful well that I 'd told you about meetin' her
                        at the dance, and how I caught her that night, and she just brought the thing up to square
                        herself with you. She did n't want you to think that any Reub could go up and flag her."
                    "Oh, well, you can see that she is n't that kind of a girl."
                    "Sure. They do n't grow 'em on the Lake Shore drive any better behaved than she is
                        now."
                    
                    
                        YOUNG MR. HALL
                    
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    Every breeze that came in at the open windows was as soft as velvet. The warm
                        sunshine had tempered it until the last sting of winter was gone.
                    Miller and Artie had removed their coats and unbuttoned their vests. They worked
                        listlessly, and occasionally one of them would lean back and gaze sleepily out at the walls and
                        roofs and the distant ribbon of lake, now dotted here and there with moving specks.
                    "A man ought to be pinched for workin' a day like this," Artie finally observed.
                    "Isn't it delightful?" said Miller. "This is the time of year when a man feels like
                        getting out into the country."
                    "That ain't no lie, neither. You do n't 
                        see very many Johnny-jump-ups growin' along Dearborn street, do you?"
                    "Do you expect to get away from town often this summer?"
                    "Gee, I can't go very far. Since I 've started plantin' my stuff in the bank and
                        plunkin' in a few cases every month on the buildin' and loan game, I 've got to play purty close
                        to my bosom, I 'll tell you those. Night before last, though, I was fixin' it up with Mame to
                        take a little run over to St. Joe or up to Milwaukee on the boat. When they let you ride all day
                        on the boat for a dollar a throw, w'y, that's where I cut in freely. But they do n't get my game
                        at any o' them summer resorts where they set you back five big elegant bucks a day for a room
                        about as big as that telephone box over there. Then if you want anything to chew you 've got to
                        square the waiter every time you go in the dinin'-room. I went up against one o' them places
                        last summer. I commenced  owin' money to that hotel
                        before I got off the train. They cleaned me in two days, but then, as they say down on State
                        street, I was n't very dirty when I landed."
                    "If I 'm going to take a vacation," said Miller, "I 'd rather get right out into the
                        country. Do n't you like the country?"
                    "Well, I ain't dead sure about that. I 'spose the country's all right to a man that's
                        lived there, but you take some wise boy that was brought up in town, and you throw him out on a
                        farm, and he's the worst ever. You've seen them boys around the Union station comin' in with
                        their red-topped boots and high hats and paper grips well, when you see them fallin' into
                        coal-holes and bein' snaked out by fake hotel-runners you think they're purty new, do n't you?
                        Well, say, there ain't one o' them that's half the horrible mark that some Chicago dub is when
                        he goes up against that farm game. If he  don't look
                        like a yellow clarinet in twenty-four hours you can mark me down for a sucker. They can't spring
                        none o' that happy-childhood-days-down-on-the-farm business on me. I 've been next, I 'll tell
                        you those."
                    "I did n't know that you were ever on a farm," said Miller, laughing.
                    "I was there once, all right, and I got it throwed into me so hard I was good and
                        sore, too. Four years ago this summer that was before my father died my uncle Matt, that's got a
                        farm a little ways from Galesburg, wrote for me to come down and visit 'em. The old gentleman
                        asked me if I wanted to go, and I said, 'Sure thing; in a minute.' I 'd been readin' them con
                        story-books about pickin' flowers and goin' fishin' and dubbin" around the woods out in the
                        country, and I thinks to myself:' This is a cinch. I 'll go down there and dazzle them jays.' So
                        I went down there, and a cousin o' mine, Spencer
                    
                    Blanchard, met me at the train with a buggy and drove me out. I got there in time for
                        supper, and they all give me the glad hand and jollied me up, and I kind o' thought that first
                        night that I 'd be a warm proposition out there. Well, holy smoke! about the time they got the
                        dishes washed up the uncle says to me, 'I guess we 'd better turn in.' 'What do you mean?' I
                        says;' go to bed?' 'Sure thing,' says he. 'We got to get all kinds of an early start in the
                        morning.' I could n't stand for that. I put up a holler right at the jump. I told 'em I was just
                        usually beginnin' to enjoy myself about nine o'clock in the evening. They said I could set up if
                        I wanted to, and then they ducked and turned in. Well, I did n't want to turn in, but there was
                        nothin' to keep me up. I set out by the pump for a little while smokin' and listenin' to them
                        katydids gettin' in their work, and then I went in the house and went to bed, but I could n't
                        get to sleep before midnight.  It seemed to me I 'd
                        been poundin' my ear about ten minutes when somebody walloped me in the back and hollered, 'Get
                        up.' Well, I set up in bed, and honest, Miller, this ain't no kid it was dark outside. 'What's
                        the trouble?' I says. 'Is the house on fire?' It was my cousin Spencer that give me the jolt in
                        the back. 'It's time to get up,' he says. I asked him what time it was, and what do you think he
                        said? This is on the level, too. He says, 'It 's past four.' When he said that I did n't know
                        what kind of a combination I 'd struck."
                    "I guess people in the country often get up that early in the summer time, especially
                        in the busy season," said Miller.
                    "They 'd never got me up, I tell you those, only that fresh cousin o' mine grabbed me
                        by the leg and pulled me out. Oh, he 's a playful guy, all right. Well, I put on my clothes and
                        went downstairs, dead on my feet. You see, I was shy four  or five hours' sleep. When they see me they all give me the horse-laugh, even
                        the hired girl. My aunt asked me what time I got up when I was in town, and I said never before
                        seven o'clock, and then they all yelled again. They seemed to think I was wrong in my nut out
                        there. Everything I done or said they give me the ha-ha."
                    "Of course life in the city is much different," said Miller.
                    "Well, I guess yes. I know this town like a book. I can begin at the first card and
                        go through the deck, but out there they lose me. They had me lookin' like a Reub all the time.
                        The worst one was the hired hand. His name was Elias. I see him up here the time of the World's
                        Fair, dodgin' cable cars and lookin' up at the skyscrapers. He was dead lucky to get out o' town
                        without havin' his clothes lifted, and, at that, I ain't sure he did. But down at the farm, he
                        was the wise guy  and I was the soft mark. What do
                        you think? The second day I was there I goes out in the field where they was cut-tin' down the
                        oats with one o' them bindin' machines, and 'Lias asked me to go back to the barn and ask Uncle
                        Matt if he had a left-handed monkey wrench. How was I to know? I ain't up on monkey-wrenches.
                        Gee, I went drillin' way back to the barn through the hot sun, and when I sprung the left-handed
                        monkey-wrench on the uncle it made a horrible hit with him. He hollered around till I got kind
                        o' sore. Then he went in the house and told them and they all had a fit about it. But you ought
                        o' seen 'Lias when he come in at night. He was all swelled up over the way he throwed it into
                        me. He thought he was a better comedian than Nat Goodwin. He must a' gone for two miles all
                        around tellin' that monkey-wrench story, and a lot o' the hands used to come over and kid me.
                        They 'd laugh and slap  their legs and say, 'By
                        Jing!' They had me crazy. I used to think it was n't on the square to josh a man because he was
                        from the country, but do n't you fool yourselfthem country people won 't do a thing to a city
                        guy if they ever get him out where they can take a good, fair crack at him."
                    "It was all in fun, though, was n't it?" asked Miller.
                    "Oh, sure; they thought they was givin" me a good time. There was a kid cousin o'
                        mine, Rutherford Hayes Blanchard would n't that name frost you? that jollied me into ridin'
                        bareback on one o' the old pelters they had around the place. I was up in the air most o' the
                        time, and after I got through ridin' mebbe you think I was n't sore. This same kid took me down
                        to the crick to go swim-min'. I burned the skin off o' my back, got a peach of a stone bruise on
                        my foot, and while I was in, 'Lias and Spencer come 
                        over and tied my clothes in hard knots. That's just a sample. Oh, I had a nice time. After a day
                        or two I shook my town clothes and made up for a farmer but I could n't play the part. They used
                        to make me try to hitch up the team with-out anyone helpin' and then they'd all stand around and
                        kid me me when I made bad breaks. It was a cinch that I'd fall down. I did n't know a
                        whiffle-tree from a tug. Then they had me milkin' too. I do n't know whether you 're on to it or
                        not, but if you try to play up to a cow on the wrong side of her she 's liable to make a sassy
                        pass and land the knockout. Well, the first night they took me out to milk they steered me up
                        against the bum side o' the cow. I'm purty game myself, an' I did n't want to quit, but she was
                        too good for me. She kept me busy for about five minutes, and then I went to my corner and said
                        I had enough. Say, the whole push had been leanin' on the fence laughin  at me till they cried. I guess they had more fun around that place
                        while I was there than they ever had before. I stood it for about ten days, helpin' 'em work in
                        the fields, gettin' all tanned up and roundin' in to supper every night smellin' like a laundry,
                        and then I kind o' figured it out that farm life was too swift for me. I kind o' wanted to see
                        the 'lectric lights and the tall houses again. So I said I was goin'. They made an awful kick
                        for me to stay. They knew they had a good thing. But I broke away."
                    "Then you're not fond of the country?"
                    "It's this way. I would n't mind goin' out for awhile if I could play myself off as
                        company, but when it comes to bein' one of the family nit, nit."
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    "Well, I'm goin' to be one o' them boys," said Artie, after he had seated himself and
                        turned half-way around so that he could see Miller.
                    "What boys? "asked Miller.
                    "Them bike people with the fried-egg caps and the wall-paper stockins'. I 'm goin' to
                        be the sassiest club boy in the whole push. You just wait. In about a week I '11 come
                        hot-footin' in here with my knee-pants and a dinky coat, and do the club yell."
                    "I knew you 'd get it sooner or later."
                    "This thing got the half-Nelson on me before I know it. One night I goes to bed
                        feelin' all right and the next mornin' when I woke up I was wrong. There 
                        
                            THEM BIKE PEOPLE
                        
                         was somethin' ailed me, but I was n't wise to it.
                        The first thing I know I was stop-pin' along the street lookin' at the wheels in the windows and
                        gettin' next to the new kinds o' saddles and rubber-neckin' to read the names on the tires, and
                        all that business. Then I begin to see that I had it the same as everybody else."
                    "I noticed that you 'd been talking bicycle lately, but I did n't know you were going
                        to get one."
                    "I'll tell you. I had a spiel with Mame last night and we fixed it up that if we did
                        n't ride wheels this summer we would n't be in it at all, so I 'm goin' to do the sucker act and
                        blow myself."
                    "Does Mamie ride?"
                    "Does she? She 's a scorchalorum. You ought o' seen her pushin' around the block last
                        night on the Connelly girl's wheel. I told her if she ever went through the park speedin' like
                        that she 'd have all the sparrow cops layin' for her.
                    
                    "How did she learn if she has n't a wheel?"
                    "Just picked it up. Ain't I told you she 's a world-beater? She 's got the dough
                        saved up to buy a wheel, too. There 's a funny thing. A girl has to work for nothin' but she can
                        always keep herself dressed right and show a little bank roll to the good. A man gets two or
                        three times as much coin always on the hog, and goin' around lookin' like a tramp. If Mame had
                        my salary she 'd be collectin' rent on flat buildin's."
                    "What kind of a wheel are you going to get?"
                    "Now you 've got me guessin'. I 've talked to twenty wise guys that 've been ridin'
                        and every one of 'em sings a dif-ferent song. Every guy cracks up his own wheel, and says all
                        the others is made out o' sheet iron and bum castin's. I 've had five or six chances to get
                        inside prices. A friend o' mine fixed it so I can 
                        get a purty fair wheel for fifty and pay for it at five a week, and I think I'll take it."
                    "Can you ride?"
                    "I can stay on, but when it comes to stickin' to a straight line or turnin' around to
                        come back I 'm purty tart. The only practice I 've had is on some o' the wheels that belong to
                        the boys out at the boat-house. Anybody that gets on the same street with me is takin' horrible
                        chances. I never know what I 'm goin' to carom against. The other day I tried to climb a
                        lamp-post and a lot of fresh kids stood around and give me the laugh."
                    "How does it happen that you never wanted a wheel before? I 've been riding for two
                        years."
                    "There was too many Charley-boys ridin'. You know the kind I mean them dubs with the
                        long hair and the badges all over the coats. W'y I 've seen 'em with tobacco tags, campaign
                        buttons and little ribbons hung all over the front 
                        of 'em. I could n't stand for nothin" like that. They was out just to make a show o' themselves.
                        This year it's different. Everybody 's gone nutty on the proposition. You can go out on a bike
                        now without every driver tryin" to upset you and all the people joshin' you about your
                        knee-pants."
                    "It's wonderful, the number of people riding wheels this spring," said Miller.
                    "I '11 tell you they 've gone daffy and I 'm one of 'em. I 'm goin' to be the worst
                        fan in the whole bunch. What do you think last Sunday out at Lincoln Park? Old geezers ye-e-s,
                        the white-haired boys that you 'd think was too stiff to back a wheel out of a shed, they was
                        out there in them dizzy togs cuttin' up and down the track like two-year-olds. And old girls,
                        too girls from away back, about the crop o' '45 fat ones, too poundin' the pedals and duckin' in
                        and out past the rigs! W'y, when I see it I put  both
                        hands in the air and I says: 'Well, when the old people can cut in on this game it's about time
                        for me to begin to associate.' I 'll be with 'em, too, next Sunday."
                    "Are you going to wear a suit? "asked Miller.
                    "Well, I'm a little leary on that. I do n't want to get too gay on the jump. Mame
                        wants me to get one and be right in line with all them club boys, but when she first sprung it
                        on me I said: 'Nix; if I ever come up here with one o' them funny suits on the old man might
                        take a shot at me.' Here's a funny thing about that. Here 's somethin' that 'll knock you cold.
                        Last night when I gets to the house to see the girl, Mrs. Carroll's on the front porch and I
                        could see she was hot about something. I asked her if any-thing had gone wrong and she says,
                        'Mr. Blanchard, there's an old man around the corner makin' a fool of himself. If you 've  got any drag with him I wish you 'd go and get him
                        in the house before he breaks his neck.' I was n't on to what she was talkin' about, but she
                        pointed to the corner and I walked over there and say this is a good thingif there was n't
                        Mame's old man takin' a fall out of a wheel. He'd borrowed it from one o' the neighbors, and
                        this guy was holdin' him on and jollyin' him along. 'Do n't be afraid,' he says, 'you won't
                        fall.' The old man's eyes was hangin' out, and he was workin' them handle-bars like a man
                        twistin' a brake. Gee, he was a sight. I had to holler and then he looked up and saw me. Course
                        that rattled him and over he went. He made a fair fall, too, both shoulders on the ground and
                        Mr. Bike on top of him. You ought o' heard some o' the large blue language the old man got rid
                        of soon as we took the wheel off of him. I did n't know it was in him. 'Try it again,' this
                        neighbor says, and he was takin' long  chances on
                        gettin' his wheel smashed at that. But the old man would n't listen to it. He went limpin' back
                        to the house, and Mrs. Carroll says: 'Well, I hope you "re satisfied now.' The old man give her
                        the cold eye, and then he says to me: 'She 'd talk that way if I 'd been killed.' I guess Mame's
                        mother is the only people on the North Side that ain't monkeyin' with a wheel."
                    "When do you and Mamie make your first appearance?"
                    "As soon as we can get the wheels. If I do n't get mine inside of a week I'll go
                        bug-house. I'm dreamin' wheels, I tell you. Last night I dreamt I was goin' along at about forty
                        miles an hour and run into a steam roller."
                    "Did it break the wheel?"
                    "I give it up. I woke up and found myself tryin' to get the strangle hold on the
                        pillow."
                    "Is Mamie going to wear bloomers?"
                    
                    "Is she? Is she goin' to wear 'embloomers? Not on your facial expression. The first
                        time we talked wheel I got up and declared myself on the bloomer business. I done the tall talk.
                        I told her any time she sprung them Turkish village clothes on her Artie boy, all bets was goin'
                        to be declared off."
                    "Why, what's the matter? Bloomers are all right."
                    "They 're all right on some other guy's girl, but they do n't go in my set. When I
                        see my girl come on a wheel I want to know whether it's her or some Board o' Trade clerk. I do
                        n't want to be kept guessin'."
                    "Why, what 's wrong with bloomers?"
                    "I'll tell you. The first one I ever see in bloomers was a lemon-faced fairy that
                        ought o' been picked along about centennial year. She come peltin' along  Michigan avenue with one o' them ballet-girl smiles splittin' that
                        face o' hers, and I aint kiddin' when I tell you that a horse jumped up on the sidewalk and
                        tried to get in the Risholoo hotel so as to pass it up. For a month afterwards I 'd see that
                        face at night and I 'd wake up and holler: 'Take it away!' From the minute I see this good thing
                        on Michigan I 'm dead sore on all bloomers. I never see a good-lookin' girl wear 'em yet. Some
                        of 'em might have been good lookers before they got into 'em, but after thatnit. You need n't be
                        afraid o' Mame, and what's more, I do n't want to talk about her wearin" them things at all. I
                        like her too well. Do you think I 'm goin' out ridin' with her and have a lot o' cheap skates
                        stoppin' to play horse with her everywhere we go? Not in a thousand years. Besides, she do n't
                        have to make up like a man to make people look at her.  She ain't like some o' the others. W'y, she kills 'em dead in her street
                        clothes. Bloomers! Well, if Mame goes with me she goes as a girl, and that ain't no lie,
                        neither."
                    
                    
                        ON HIS UPPERS
                    
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    As Artie came in he saw a stranger seated near Miller's desk. The stranger was rather
                        well dressed, although his garments were not of the latest cut. He had a good tan color in his
                        face, and for that and some other reasons which he could not have explained to himself, Artie
                        knew that the stranger was merely a visitor to Chicago.
                    "O Artie," said Miller, "I want you to meet my cousin, Walter Miller. He lives in my
                        old town. Walter, this is Mr. Blanchard, Artie Blanchard."
                    "He was just speaking about you," said the cousin, with an amiable but rather
                        embarrassed smile.
                    "Did he gi' me the worst of it?" inquired 
                        Artie. "Is 'pose he did. He 's on to the story of my past life."
                    "No," said Miller. "I was just telling him that if he wanted to know anything about
                        Chicago you were the man that could tell him."
                    "Well, that's a good send off. What are you doin'? Passin' me off as one o' the
                        sights o' the town? I s 'pose you told him that every visitor to Chicago ought to see Lincoln
                        Park, the stockyards, the sky-scrapers and Artie Blanch-ard and then buy a box o' candy for the
                        loved ones at home."
                    "No, but I told him you were just as good as a guide-book."
                    "Better. I can put him next to things that ain't in the guide-books. Come over here
                        next to the window where there 's a draught, Mr. Miller. You might as well take the air freely.
                        That's the only thing in Chicago that you '11 get for nothin'."
                    "I believe you 're about right," remarked 
                        the cousin, as he moved over to a place near the window. "Coming up the street this morning I
                        wanted a glass of water, and 1 finally had to go into a saloon and buy it."
                    "If you 'd had a beer thirst you 'd have been all right. Is this the first time you
                        've been up against the town?"
                    "No, I was here a week the time of the World's Fair, but I did n't get into this part
                        of town much."
                    "Well, what do you think of it as far as you 've got? Warm town, eh?"
                    "Yes, indeed; wonderful. I always feel rather lost when I get in the crowds."
                    "Is 'pose it is that way for a day or two, but you 'd soon get used to it."
                    "I do n't believe I would. There are too many people here. I 'm afraid I 'd never get
                        along in Chicago."
                    "You want to get over that in a hurry. Of course there 's an awful push in the
                        streets here any day, and I s 'pose when you  first
                        get in you kind o" feel that you "re up against a lot o' wise city mugs and that they must be
                        purty fly because they live right here in town. I 've had people tell me that's the way they
                        felt at first, but it did n't take 'em long to find out there 's just as many pin-heads on State
                        street as you '11 find anywhere out in the woods."
                    "Oh, I suppose a man would learn about the city in a little while?"
                    "Cert. It ain't where a man's born or where he was raised that puts him in any class.
                        It's whether he 's got anything under his hat. I seen too many o' these boys kind o' jump in
                        from the country and make a lot o' city boys look like rabbits. You see, Mr. Miller, when a guy
                        comes in from the country he figures it out: 'Here, I 'm goin' against a tough proposition, and
                        I 've got to hump myself to keep up.' He 's willin' to learn a few things and do the best he
                        can. If he feels that way he stands to win out. But if he comes  canterin' into town to be a dead-game sport and set a pace for all the boys,
                        w'y, he do n't last. It's a small town, but it's too big for any one boy to come in from the
                        country and scare it. Them sporty boys do n't last. They get in with a lot o' cheap skates and
                        chase around at nights and think they 're the real thing, and then in a couple o' moons they go
                        back home and leave all their stuff in hock. They think they 're fly, but they ain't."
                    "I know some that have done that very thing."
                    "Sure you do. I ain 't roastin' no man 'cause he 's from the country. You go along
                        Prairie avenue and see all o' them swell joints where the fat boys with side-whiskers hang out.
                        Well, them boys all come in from the country, but they had sense enough to saw wood and plant a
                        little coin when it begin to come easy. I 'm tellin' you,: he worst suckers you '11 find is some
                        o' these city people that know it all  to begin with.
                        They got such a long start on everybody else that they do n't need to learn nothin'. If they
                        know the names o' the streets, what shows is in town next week, what color of a necktie to flash
                        and what was the score at the ball game they think they come purt' near bein' dead wise. You
                        live here in town awhile and you 'll get on to them people. Say! I know a lot o' boys that's got
                        just enough sense to put in workin' hours and then go ridin' a wheel. You could n't set 'em down
                        and tell 'em a thing. Any of 'em that's got himself staked to a spring suit and knows the chorus
                        o' 'Paradise Alley' thinks he 's up to the limit. You can make book that them boys 'll be
                        workin' on bum salaries when they 're gray headed, and what's more, they 'll be workin' for some
                        Reub that come into town wearin' hand-me-downs."
                    "Well, I suppose folks out in the  country
                        do give the city people too much credit for being smart," said the visitor.
                    "Oh, we 've got 'em smart enough, all right, all right, but I 'm tellin' you about
                        the cheap ones. You 're a stranger here and you see some guy goin' along State street puttin' on
                        a horrible front, tryin' to kill women right and left, a big piece o' rock salt on his necktie,
                        and you say, 'Hully gee, I wonder who that case o' swell is; Marshall Field or P. D. Armour?'
                        Well, say, it's a ten to one shot that all that that fellow 's got in the world he 's got right
                        with him, and at that it ain't no cinch he 's wearin' underclothes. You 've got to learn these
                        things. You don 't know mebbe that guy can't spell through the first reader. Any old farmer with
                        one o' them bunches on his chin could buy up him and a hundred more like him. Well, he 's just
                        the kind of a counterfeit that 'd go out in the country and play himself off  as the real boy because he lives in the city. Now,
                        don't you fool yourself for a minute, Mr. Miller. Take my tip. We 've got just as many suckers
                        up here as you 've got down your way."
                    "I think you 're right about that," said Miller, who had been listening.
                    "You know it. Take them mashers along State street. Can you beat 'em anywhere? Then a
                        little farther south you '11 see them stranded boys, goin' around on their uppers and takin' a
                        dip at the free lunch when nobody 's lookin'. They 'd sooner stand around in town and starve to
                        death than get out somewhere and make a stand for the coin. Any one o' them vags thinks he's too
                        good to go out in the country or to some little town and live decent."
                    "It's tough down that way. I walked up through there this morning," said the visiting
                        Miller.
                    "You can get any kind of a game you 
                        want down there, but you 're safe if you do n't go huntin' trouble. Any man that keeps
                        hot-footin' right along and says nothin' to nobody is all right. Of course, when one of these
                        new boys conies in and raps on the bar and says he's got money to burn there's always some handy
                        man right there to give him a match. When that kind of a mark comes in they get out the bottle
                        o' knock-out drops and get ready to do business. A man like you, Mr. Miller, won't have no
                        trouble here. And for goodness sake do n't think you 're up against anything great when you 're
                        minglin' with Chicago people. When you come to know the town it's as common as plowed ground. I
                        know a good show I '11 take you to to-night."
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    It was Saturday morning and Artie came in wearing his bicycle clothes.
                    "How do you like "em? "he asked, turning about so that Miller and young Mr. Hall
                        could see the hang of the coat. "Reduced from nineteen bones to seven seventy-five. Are you next
                        to the stock-in's? I guess I ain't got no shape or nothin'."
                    "It looks first rate on you," said young Mr. Hall.
                    "Well, why not, why not? I think I 'm one o' the purtiest boys that works here in the
                        office anyway, that "s what a good many people tell me."
                    "You did n't have it made, did you? "asked Miller.
                    
                    
                        THE CAUTIOUS BOY
                    
                    
                    "Aw, let go; do n't ask such questions. Do n't it look just as good as if I 'd
                        coughed up twenty-five plunks for it, huh?"
                    "It's a dressy suit," said Miller. "But why are you wearing it this morning?"
                    "W'y, the minute I get through here I 'm goin' out to meet the girl, and we 're goin'
                        over to the park just to show people the difference."
                    "You 're still going out to see that girl, are you?" asked young Mr. Hall.
                    "My boy, you 're very slow here lately. You 've been overlookin' a lot o' news."
                    "You had n't told me anything about her for a long time."
                    "That's because she ain't been sendin' any word to you. Miller's been out to see
                        her."
                    "Have you, Miller?" inquired young Mr. Hall.
                    "Of course had a good time."
                    "When you 're a little older if you 're 
                        goodI'll take you out some night and let you meet some o' the real folks."
                    "Oh, thanks," said young Mr. Hall, with a little twitch, suggestive of sarcasm, at
                        one corner of his mouth. "Do you think you could introduce me to society."
                    "I could take you where you 'd have to shake that Miss Maud business and comb your
                        hair different or else go to the wall. If you ever went out to the Carrolls and sprung that
                        gum-drop talk the old man wouldn't do a thing to you."
                    "It must be a pleasant sort of place," said young Mr. Hall, who had flushed up at the
                        reference to the "Miss Maud business."
                    "The best everif you belong."
                    Young Mr. Hall smiled complacently and said: "Now I know why you've changed so much
                        lately. I kind of believed you were still stuck on the girl."
                    "Who 's changed? What are you talkin' about?"
                    
                    "Why, you have. I 've noticed you never chew tobacco any more for one thing. Did she
                        make you stop?"
                    "No, she did n't. Well, you 've got a rind, ain't you? What if she had? What 's it to
                        you?"
                    "Nothing, only I can notice the change. You do n't cuss like you used to, nor smoke
                        as much, and I 've seen you writing letters on that square paper and looking out of the window
                        with the funniest kind of a look"
                    "Break away! Say, I believe you 're tryin' to kid me. You talk like a man that was
                        full of dope."
                    "I '11 leave it to Miller," persisted young Mr. Hall. "Has n't he changed, Miller?
                        Gracious me, I could notice it. I didn't know what the reason was, because after that first time
                        he never told me anything about this."
                    "Oh, get tired, can't you! "interrupted
                    
                    Artie. "You must think you 're good if you can string me."
                    "I '11 leave it to Miller," repeated young Mr. Hall.
                    "Well," said Miller, laughing, "of course Artie has changed some, but"
                    "There! "exclaimed young Mr. Hall, triumphantly.
                    "Humph! "said Artie. His face was red and he was certainly flustered. "It 'd be a
                        dead lucky thing if some more people around the shop 'd change a little. They could n't be any
                        punker 'n they are now."
                    But young Mr. Hall did not retort. He had made his point and was satisfied.
                    A few moments later young Mr. Hall put on his hat and started away on his daily round
                        of collections. Artie turned from his desk and said to Miller: "Say, that boy kind o" had me
                        down on the mat, did n't he?"
                    "Do n't mind what he says."
                    "Yes, but he had the best of it. I  did
                        n't s'pose he 'd noticed I was goin' queer. They say a man never does know it when he goes off
                        the jump. On the level, though, he's dead right. I ain't like I was the first time I met the
                        girl. No more chasin' around at nights, no blowin' my stuff against a lot o'' dubs and no more
                        boozin'."
                    "I 'd noticed that."
                    "Sure. I ain't had a package since that night I told you about, and then they made me
                        take it."
                    "Package? What's that?"
                    "W'y, a load, a jag! Smoke up! Do n't go out on me. You ought to know what a package
                        is."
                    "I never had one."
                    "Well, I '' ve had 'em when I had to lay down in the grass and hold on with both
                        hands to keep from fallin' off the earth. I 've had 'em when I made tracks like a man drivin'
                        geese. I was like lots more o' them sporty boys wanted to  throw in the big bowls just to show I was nice people. There ain't a thing in
                        it. Most o' them West Side boys I started in to train with got to be dead tough. I do n't want
                        to star myself, but I think I had enough wiseness to switch. I ain't no blue-ribbon boy, but if
                        you ever see little old Artie with a load o' peaches you can just take him and drop him in the
                        river and say: 'Here goes nothin'."
                    "There 's nothing like a good, sensible girl to straighten a fellow up."
                    "Mebbe that ain't no lie, neither. She ain't never struck me to do nothin' but I just
                        says: 'Here, you big mark, if you're goin' to be around with a nice girl, why, you 're got to be
                        nice people.' If there 's anything that makes me sore it's to see some swell-lookin' girl goin'
                        along with a guy actin' like a Reub or a dead tough. If he done his best, you know, he could n't
                        belong with her. If I do say it myself, I 've used Mame the best I know how and  been purty square. Of course a man livin' in this
                        Indian village may think he 's on the square as long as he keeps out o' the cooler, but I know I
                        ain't been as tough as a lot more. What knocks me is to think this mamma's boy got on to me. I
                        must be gettin' purty far along when that guy gets next and tries to play horse with me.
                        Everybody must be on. I s'pose them elevator boys is sayin': 'Well, about day after to-morrow
                        they 'll put his nobs into cell 13 and send for the doctors.'"
                    "Nonsense, nonsense," said Miller, laughing in spite of himself. "You're all right. I
                        wish I was stuck on some girl. Then I 'd know what to do evenings."
                    '' Evenings! Say, Miller, there ought to be about ten evenings every week. If things
                        keep on the way they 've been since both of us went daffy on the bike game, I 'll have to give
                        up my job here and move Mr. Trunk up to the Carroll joint. I 'm gettin' too busy to work. My job
                        's been  interferin' with me a good deal lately. I 'd
                        give it up only for one thing."
                    "What's that?"
                    "W'y, the dough, of course. You will have to smoke up, sure enough. Now I think I '11
                        do a little work so as to get through early. Mame and me want to do a century by 4 o'clock. I
                        went eighteen miles before breakfast this morning. I may be a sloppy rider, but I 'm one of the
                        best15o-pound liars in the business."
                    "Well, get to work," said Miller. "I'm going to be busy myself."
                    "What are you hurryin' to get through for? You ain't got nothin' in this world to
                        live for. You 're nothin' but a chairwarmer."
                    "Never you mind. Some day I '11 fool you."
                    "Well, if it happens I Ml be fooled all right, all right."
                    And with that he went to work.
                    
                    
                        MAMIE'S MOTHER
                    
                
                
                
                    XX
                    A full moon was hanging over the lake. The whole surface of small, uneasy waves was
                        lighted. There was one path of shiny splendor leading straight out toward the moon and where
                        this path lost itself no one could tell.
                    "There ain 't no moon or nothin' to-night," observed Artie. He had been flip-ping
                        pebbles down the paved beach and into the water. Mamie sat with him on the stone uplift dividing
                        the park driveway from the slope toward the water with him, to be sure, but three or four feet
                        away, with her hat in her lap. "It's perfectly lovely to-night,"
                        she said.
                    The two bicycles were leaned over against the stone uplift and the lamps  threw oblong splotches of light on the gravel.
                    Behind Artie and Mamie was the gloomy range made by the heavy foliage of the park. In
                        and out amid the dark banks of trees and along the level driveway moved glow specks like so many
                        busy fireflies. Artie saw none of these, for he was intent on the spectacle of water and
                        moonshine.
                    "The guy that could put all that into a picture'd be a bird, eh, Mame?"
                    "It's perfectly lovely."
                    "That's what it is, all right. They don't grow many like this one."
                    "I could stay out here all night and just look at the lake."
                    "Could you? Well, I think about two o'clock in the morning I 'd be ready to let go.
                        It is a peach of a night, though, I 'll say that."
                    "Sing something, Artie."
                    "What do you want me to do drive  the moon
                        in? How did you ever come to think I was a singer? That's two or three times you've sprung that
                        on me. Somebody must 'a' been stringin' you."
                    "Why, the night we walked home from Turner Hall you sang something awfully pretty.
                        What was it?"
                    "Well, let it go at that. Any singin' I ever done was a horrible bluff, I 'll tell
                        you those."
                    "Oh, you contrary thing! You can sing if you try to."
                    "I take no chances, Mame. If I 'd ever spring one o' them bum notes you'd gi' me the
                        horse laugh and then there'd be trouble."
                    Mamie laughed and said: "What a boy you are! You never do anything I want you to."
                    "Come off! I'll tell you right now that when I kick on singin' I'm doin' you the
                        greatest favor in the world. You never heard me sing. I guess you 're a  little mixed in your dates. It must a'. been somebody else you had on
                        your staff that night."
                    "Why Artie Blanchard, you mean thing!"
                    "Hello! Did I land on you that time?"
                    "I think it was awfully mean of you to say that. I don't ever ask you if you 've been
                        running around with some other girl."
                    "Why don "t you? I 'd tell you there 's three or four others that kind o1 like my
                        style."
                    "They must be hard up."
                    "Is that so? Maybe I ain 't so many but I 'm a purty good thing, at that. I 'm fresh
                        every hour. No family ought to be without me. When you lose me you lose a puddin' and do n 't
                        you overlook it."
                    In answer, Mamie picked up some of the small pebbles and threw them at him. He held
                        his cap over his face and laughingly begged of her to stop.
                    
                    "Will you be good?" she asked.
                    "Sure thing. But do n 't be so rough with your man."
                    "My man! "Mamie tilted her head back, looked up at the moon and shrieked with
                        laughter.
                    Artie was always vastly pleased to have Mamie understand his bantering way. He had
                        often wondered if they would ever come to the habit of taking each other seriously. Could
                        married people keep up the joke?
                    "I seem to be makin' a horrible hit with you to-night," he remarked, as Mamie slowly
                        recovered from the attack.
                    Mamie looked at him seriously for a moment and again broke into laughter.
                    "What's the joke? "demanded Artie. "Put me next so I can get in on the laugh."
                    "Oh, nothing. Only you said that so funny."
                    "Funny? That was on the level."
                    At this moment Artie had an inspiration. 
                        The conversation was headed. right. Why not steer it straight ahead?
                    "Of course," he continued, "I was kind o' kiddin' when I said that, but when it comes
                        right down to cases it was n't so much of a kid after all."
                    Mamie laughed a little, but it was a forced laugh. She had suddenly become interested
                        in a pebble which she was rolling under the toe of her shoe.
                    "I do n 't mean more'n half I say," said Artie, tightening his fists with resolution
                        and still looking out at the illuminated lake, "but on the dead, Mame, I ain't as foolish
                        sometimes as I am others. That talk about there bein' any other girl was all guff."
                    "Pshaw, I knew that."
                    "Gee, you know you 've got me right, do n't you? And I guess you have, too. That
                        ain't no lie. Say, Mame, what do you think? Miller was roastin' me the other day. He said I was
                        slow."
                    
                    "Slowhow?"
                    "About doin' the nervy thingcomin' out and sayin' to you, 'Here, let 's fix it up.'"
                    "Fix what up?"
                    "Oh, you do n 't know, do you? You ain 't got no notion at all of what I 'm gettin'
                        at, have you? That's too bad about you."
                    Mamie began to laugh and then she checked herself, for she observed that Artie was
                        frowning.
                    "Of course," said she, "I suppose you mean that we"
                    "All I mean is, what's the matter of gettin' it settled that it's goin' to be a case
                        of marry?"
                    There! When he said this it seemed to him that his voice went further and further
                        away from him, as if some one else were speaking the words.
                    Mamie was smiling quietly and turning her hat over and over.
                    
                    "I guess that did n 't scare you so much after all," said Artie, who at that moment
                        felt that his whole existence had stepped out from under a burden.
                    "No," she replied, as she continued to fuss with the hat. "Scare me?"
                    "How about it bein' up to you?"
                    "Oh, it's all right, I guess." She spoke with a frightened attempt to be careless.
                    "This is one of them cases where all guessin 's barred."
                    "Well, you might know it's all right."
                    "It's a go then."
                    He said this rather solemnly. There was a pause, and then he continued with some
                        embarrassment: "I '11 tell you, Mame, it seemed to me we ought to have it through with. I did
                        n't want to keep you guessin' whether I wanted to stick. Do n't you think it was the wise move
                        huh?"
                    "It's all right yes."
                    
                    "I was goin' to spring it on you sooner, but I ain 't never got the nerve to talk
                        much about things like that. It ain't like askin' a girl to go to a show, is it?"
                    "Not exactly," and then both of them laughed, in a relieved way.
                    "Do n't you think you 'd better put your mother on to it?" asked Artie.
                    "I do n't know. Would you?"
                    "Sure. I guess she won't make no holler."
                    Mamie laughed again. "That's a good one on you," she said.
                    "What is?"
                    "She wanted to know the other day if you 'd asked me yet."
                    "Who, the old girl? Well, what do you think of that? Everybody's onto us, Mame."
                    "I do n't care."
                    "Care? They can bill the town with it if they want to. Come on; let's take another
                        whirl through the park."
                    
                    As they walked over to the bicycles Artie laid his hand on her shoulder, much as one
                        man might have put his hand on the shoulder of another man. His voice trembled with what he
                        pretended was laughter as he said: "Mrs. Blanchard, you 're the best o' the lot. How 's the lamp
                        workin'? Here, I '11 turn it up a little."
                    Perhaps he would have kissed her, as he quakingly felt that he should have done, had
                        they not been standing in the moon-light. Yet he did not know that he was in the temper for
                        love-making. He was simply filled with a large wonder that he had succeeded beyond his deserts
                        and that this one best creature of all time was satisfied with him.
                    They quickly mounted the wheels and moved northward. The darting specks of fire were
                        still abroad, but there was no sound except the soft rasp of the turning wheels. Artie, pumping
                        leisurely and  watching the lighted patch of
                        roadway fleeing before his wheel, suddenly began to sing about "Marguerite." He was sing-ing
                        absent-mindedly and merely to keep time with his thoughts, but Mamie heard him and swung her
                        wheel so as to ride up close beside him.
                    "I thought you did n 't sing," said she, laughing.
                    "Oh, well," said Artie, grinning. "You know there are timesthere are times.'
                
            
        
        
            
            
                PRINTED AT THE LAKESIDE PRESS FOR HERBERT S. STONE Si.
                        CO PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO
            
            
            
                SOME OTHER PUBLICATIONS OF HERBERT S.
                    STONE & COMPANY CHICAGO SECOND EDITION NOW READY.
                
                    CHECKERS, a Hard-Luck Story by HENRY M. BLOSSOM, Jr. 16mo,
                        $1.25.
                    "Abounds in the most racy and picturesque slang."AT. Y.
                            Recorder.
                    
                    "Checkers" is an interesting and entertaining chap, a distinct type, with a separate
                        tongue and a way of saying things that is oddly humorous. Chicago
                            Record.
                    
                    If I had to ride from New York to Chicago on a slow train, I should like half a dozen
                        books as gladsome as "Checkers," and I could laugh at the trip.N. T.
                            Commercial Advertiser.
                    
                
                
                    A CHILD OF THE JAGO, a Novel of the East End of London, by ARTHUR MORRISON, author of "Tales of Mean Streets." 12mo.
                        $1.50.
                    Mr. Morrison is recognized the world over as the most capable man at slum life
                        stories. His "Tales of Mean Streets" was one of the best re-ceived books of 1894-5, and the
                        present volume has occupied his time ever since. It is of great force and continuous interest; a
                        book that, once begun, must be finished, and one that will figure as a sensation for a long time
                        to come.
                
            
            
            
                Second Edition Now Ready WITHOUT SIN A
                        NOVEL by Martin J. Pritchard 12 mo., $1.25
                
                    The NEW YORK JOURNAL gave a half-page to a review of the
                            book and proclaimed it "THE MOST STARTLING NOVEL YET."
                    "the very ingenious way in which improbable incidents are made to appear natural, the
                        ingenious manner in which the story is sustained to the end, the undoubted fascination of the
                        writing, and the convincing charm of the principal characters, are just what make this novel so
                        deeply dangerous while so intensely interesting." THE WORLD (London).
                    "Abounds in situations of thrilling interest. A unique and daring book." REVIEW or
                        REVIEWS (London).
                    "One is hardly likely to go far wrong in predicting that WITHOUT SIN will attract
                        abundant notice. Too much can scarcely be said in praise of Mr. Pritchard's treatment of his
                        subject.ACADEMY (London).
                    To be had of all Booksellers, or will be sent Postpaid on receipt of
                        price by the Publishers,
                    HERBERT S. STONE & CO., CHICAGO.
                
            
            
            
                
                    ARTIE, a Story of the Streets and Town, by GEORGE ADE, with
                        many pictures by John T. McCutcheon. 16mo, $1.25.
                    These sketches, reprinted from the Chicago Record,
                        attracted great attention on their original appearance. They have been revised and rewritten and
                        in their present form promise to make one of the most popular books of the fall.
                    
                        THE FEARSOME ISLAND, being a Modern rendering of the narrative of
                        one Silas Fordred, Master Mariner of Hythe, whose shipwreck and subsequent adventures are herein
                        set forth. Also an appendix accounting in a rational manner for the seeming marvels that Silas
                        Fordred encountered during his sojourn on the fearsome island of Don Diego Rodriguez.
                    
                        By ALBERT KINROSS, with a cover de-signed by Frank Hazenplug.
                        161110, $1.25.
                
                
                    IN BUNCOMBE COUNTY, By MARIA LOUISE POOL, 16mo, $1.25.
                    A series of sketches of Country Life in the South. They are much in the style of Miss
                        Pool's "A Dike Shanty," which has been so successful.
                    To be had of all Booksellers, or will be sent postpaid on receipt of
                        price by the Publishers.
                    HERBERT S. STONE & CO., CHICAGO.
                
            
            
            
                Just Ready.
                Prose Fancies
                
                    SECOND SERIES BY Richard Le Gallienne 16mo,
                        $1.25
                    "PROSE FANCIES" ought to be in everyone's summer library, for it is just the kind of
                        book one loves to take to some secluded spot to read and dream over.Kansas City Times.
                    
                    "In these days of Beardsley pictures and de-cadent novels, it is good to find a book
                        as sweet, as pure, as delicate as Mr. Le Gallienne's." New Orleans
                            Picayune.
                    
                
                
                    THE LAND OF THE CASTANET, Spanish Sketches, by the author of
                        "Two Women and a Fool," with twenty-five full page
                        illustrations. 161110. $1.25.
                    A collection of rambling sketches of Spanish people and places. Mr. Chatfield-Taylor
                        has writ-ten frankly and entertainingly of the most striking features of "The Land of the
                        Castanet." The volume does not pretend to be exhaustive; in no sense is it a guide bookit is
                        intended rather more for the person who does not expect to visit Spain than for the traveller.
                    HERBERT S. STONE & CO., CHICAGO.
                
            
        
    
