
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Jane Cable: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2355
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    JANE CABLE
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR MCCUTCHEON
                    Author of "Beverly of Graustark"
                        "Nedra," etc.
                ILLUSTRATIONS IN COLOR BY HARRISON FISHER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD & COMPANY
                    1906
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY
                     DODD, MEAD & COMPANY
                    
                    Published September, 1906
                
                
                    All rights reserved
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I When Jane Goes Driving 1
                        
                    II The Cables 9
                        
                    III James Bansemer 14
                        
                    IV The Foundling 22
                        
                    V The Bansemer Crash 30
                        
                    VI In Sight of the Fangs 38
                        
                    VII Mrs. Cable Entertains 49
                        
                    VIII The Telegram 58
                        
                    IX The Proposal 65
                        
                    X The Four Initials 79
                        
                    XI An Evening with Droom 90
                        
                    XII James Bansemer Calls 101
                        
                    XIII Jane Sees with New Eyes 113
                        
                    XIV The Canker 131
                        
                    XV The Tragedy of the Sea Wall 138
                        
                    XVI Hours of Terror 148
                        
                    XVII David Cable's Debts 159
                        
                    XVIII The Visit of Harbert 166
                        
                    
                    XIX The Crash 178
                        
                    XX Father and Son 188
                        
                    XXI In the Philippines 198
                        
                    XXII The Chase of Pilar 206
                        
                    XXIII The Fight in the Convent 215
                        
                    XXIV Teresa Velasquez 229
                        
                    XXV The Beautiful Nurse 237
                        
                    XXVI The Separation of Hearts 247
                        
                    XXVII "If They Don't Kill You" 257
                        
                    XXVIII Homeward Bound 268
                        
                    XXIX The Wreckage 278
                        
                    XXX The Drink of Gall 289
                        
                    XXXI The Transforming of Droom 293
                        
                    XXXII Elias Droom's Dinner Party 308
                        
                    XXXIII Droom Triumphs over Death 321
                        
                    XXXIV To-morrow 328
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Frontispiece 
                    "'I knew it was you long before I saw
                        you'" 6
                        
                    "'As a beast I can destroy you and I
                        will'" 108
                        
                    "His feeble glance took in her face with lifeless
                        interest" 248
                        
                    "The handsomest man of allwas staring boldly at Jane's
                        averted face" 318
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                JANE CABLE
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    WHEN JANE GOES DRIVING
                    IT was a bright, clear afternoon in the late fall that
                        pretty Miss Cable drove up in her trap and waited at the curb for her father
                        to come forth from his office in one of Chicago's tallest
                        buildings. The crisp, caressing wind that came up the street from the lake
                        put the pink into her smooth cheeks, but it did not disturb the brown hair
                        that crowned her head. Well-groomed and graceful, she sat straight and sure
                        upon the box, her gloved hand grasping the yellow reins firmly and
                        confidently. Miss Cable looked neither to right nor to left, but at the tips
                        of her thoroughbred's ears. Slender and tall and very aristocratic
                        she appeared, her profile alone visible to the passers-by.
                    After a very few moments, waiting in her trap, the smart young woman became
                        impatient. A severe, little pucker settled upon her brow, and not once, but
                        many times her eyes turned to the broad entrance across the sidewalk. She
                        had telephoned to her father earlier in the afternoon; and he had promised
                        faithfully to be ready at four o'clock for a spin up the drive
                        behind Spartan. At three minutes past four the 
                        pucker made its first appearance; and now, several minutes later, it was
                        quite distressing. Never before had he kept her waiting like this. She was
                        conscious of the fact that at least a hundred men had stared at her in the
                        longest ten minutes she had ever known. From the bottom of a very hot heart
                        she was beginning to resent this scrutiny, when a tall young fellow swung
                        around a near-by corner, and came up with a smile so full of delight, that
                        the dainty pucker left her brow, as the shadow flees from the sunshine. His
                        hat was off and poised gallantly above his head, his right hand reaching up
                        to clasp the warm, little tan one outstretched to meet it.
                    "I knew it was you long before I saw you," said he warmly.
                    "Truly? How interesting!" she responded, with equal warmth.
                        "Something psychic in the atmosphere today?"
                    "Oh, no," he said, reluctantly releasing her hand.
                    "I can't see through these huge buildings, you
                        knowit's impossible to look over their topsI simply knew you were
                        here, that's all."
                    "You're romantic, even though you are a bit
                        silly," she cried gaily. "Pray, how could you
                        know?"
                    "Simplest thing in the world. Rigby told me he had seen you, and
                        that you seemed to be in a great rage. He dared me to venture into your
                        presence, andthat's why I'm here."
                    "What a hopelessly, commonplace explanation! Why did you not leave
                        me to think that there was really something psychic about it? Logic is so
                        discouraging  to one's conceit.
                        I'm in a very disagreeable humour to-day," she said, in
                        fine despair.
                    "I don't believe it," he disputed graciously.
                    "But I am," she insisted, smiling brightly. His heart was
                        leaping highso high, that it filled his eyes.
                    "Everything has gone wrong with me to-day. It's pretty
                        trying to have to wait in front of a big office building for fifteen
                        minutes. Every instant, I expect a policeman to come up and order me to move
                        on. Don't they arrest people for blocking the street?"
                    "Yes, and put them in awful, rat-swarming dungeons over in Dearborn
                        Avenue. Poor Mr. Cable, he should be made to suffer severely for his
                        wretched conduct. The idea of"
                    "Don't you dare to say anything mean about dad,"
                        she warned.
                    "But he's the cause of all the troublehe's never
                        done anything to make you happy, or"
                    "Stop! I take it all backI'm in a perfectly adorable
                        humour. It was dreadfully mean of me to be half-angry with him,
                        wasn't it? He's in there, now, working his dear old brain
                        to pieces, and I'm out here with no brain at all," she
                        said ruefully.
                    To the ingenuous youth, such an appeal to his gallantry was well-nigh
                        irresistible, and for a moment it seemed as if he would yield to the
                        temptation to essay a brilliant contradiction; but his wits came to his
                        rescue, for quickly realising that not only were the frowning rocks of
                        offence to be avoided, but likewise the danger of floundering helplessly
                        about in the inviting quicksands of inanity, he preserved silencewise young
                             man that he was, and trusted to his eyes to
                        express an eloquent refutation. At last, however, something seemed to occur
                        to him. A smile broke on his face.
                    "You had a stupid time last night?" he hazarded.
                    "What makes you think so?"
                    "I know who took you in to dinner."
                    The eyes of the girl narrowed slightly at the corners.
                    "Did he tell you?"
                    "No, I have neither seen nor heard from anyone present."
                        She opened her eyes wide, now.
                    "Well, Mr. S. Holmes, who was it?"
                    "That imbecile, Medford."
                    Miss Cable sat up very straight in the trap; her little chin went up in the
                        air; she even went so far as to make a pretence of curbing the impatience of
                        her horse.
                    "Mr. Medford was most entertaininghe was the life of the
                        dinner," she returned somewhat severely.
                    "He's a professional!"
                    "An actor!" she cried incredulously.
                    "No, a professional diner-out. Wasn't that rich young
                        Jackson there?"
                    "Why, yes; but do tell me how you knew?" The girl was
                        softening a little, her curiosity aroused.
                    "Of course I will," he said boyishly, at once pleased with
                        himself and his sympathetic audience. "About five-thirty I happened
                        to be in the club. Medford was there, and as usual catering to Jackson, when
                        the latter was called to the 'phone. Naturally, I put two and two
                        together." He paused to more thoroughly enjoy the look of utter
                        mystification that hovered on the girl's  countenance. It was very apparent that this method of deduction through
                        addition was unsatisfying. "What Jackson said to Medford, on his
                        return," the young man continued, "I did not hear; but
                        from the expression on the listener's face I could have wagered
                        that an invitation had been extended and accepted. Oh, we boys have got it
                        down fine! Garrison is"
                    "And who is Garrison?"
                    "Garrison is the head door man at the club. It's positively
                        amazing the number of telephone calls he receives every afternoon from
                        well-known society women!"
                    "What about? And what's that got to do with Mr. Medford
                        taking me in to dinner?"
                    "Just this: Suppose Mrs. Rowden"
                    "Mrs. Rowden!" The girl was nonplussed.
                    "Yeswants to find out who's in the club? She
                        'phones Garrison. Instantly, after ascertaining which setyounger or
                        older is wanted, from a small card upon which he has written a few but
                        choice names of club members, he submits a name to her."
                    "Really, you don't mean to tell me that such a thing is
                        actually done?" exclaimed Miss Cable, who as yet was socially so
                        unsophisticated as to be horrified; "you're joking, of
                        course!"
                    "But nine time out of ten," ignoring the interruption;
                        "it is met with: 'Don't want him!'
                        Another: 'Makes a bad combination!' A third: 'Oh,
                        no, my dear, not a dollar to his namehopelessly ineligible!' This
                        last exclamation though intended solely for the visitor at her home, elicits
                        from Garrison a low chuckle  of approval of the
                        speaker's discrimination; and presently, he hears:
                        'Goodness me, Garrison, there must be someone else!' Then,
                        to her delight, she is informed that Mr. Jackson has just come in; and he is
                        requested to come to the 'phone, Garrison being dismissed with
                        thanks and the expectation of seeing her butler in the morning."
                    "How perfectly delicious!" came from the girl. "I
                        can almost hear Mrs. Rowden telling Jackson that he will be the dearest boy
                        in the world if he will dine with her."
                    "And bring someone with him, as she is one man short,"
                        laughed Graydon, as he wound up lightly; "and here is where the
                        professional comes in. We're all onto Medford! Why, Garrison has
                        half a dozen requests a nightsix times fivethirty dollars. Not badbut then
                        the man's a 'who's who' that never makes
                        mistakes. I won't be positive that he does not draw pay from both
                        ends. For, men like Medford, outside of the club, probably tip him to give
                        them the preference. It would be good business."
                    There was so much self-satisfaction in the speaker's manner of
                        uttering these last words, that it would not have required the wisdom of one
                        older than Miss Cable to detect that he was thoroughly enjoying his pose of
                        man of the world. He was indeed young! For, he had yet to learn that not to
                        disillusion the girl, but to conform as much as possible to her ideals, was
                        the surest way to win her favour; and his vanity surely would have received
                        a blow had not David Cable at that moment come out of the doorway across the
                            
                        
                            "'I KNEW IT WAS YOU LONG BEFORE I SAW
                                YOU'"
                        
                         sidewalk, pausing for a moment to converse with
                        the man who accompanied him. The girl's face lighted with pleasure
                        and relief; but the young man regarding uneasily the countenance of the
                        General Manager of the Pacific, Lakes & Atlantic R. R. Company, saw
                        that he was white, tired and drawn. It was not the keen, alert expression
                        that had been the admiration of everyone; something vital seemed to be
                        missing, although he could not have told what it was. A flame seemed to have
                        died somewhere in his face, leaving behind a faint suggestion of ashes; and
                        through the young man's brain there flashed the remark of his fair
                        companion: 'He's in there now, working his dear, old brain
                        to pieces.'
                    "I'm sorry to have kept you waiting, Jane," said
                        Cable, crossing to the curb. "Hello, Graydon; how are
                        you?" His voice was sharp, crisp, and louder than the occasion
                        seemed to demand, but it was natural with him. Years of life in an engine
                        cab do not serve to mellow the tone of the human voice, and the habit is too
                        strong to be overcome. There was no polish to the tones as they issued from
                        David Cable's lips. He spoke with more than ordinary regard for the
                        Queen's English, but it was because he never had neglected it. It
                        was characteristic of the man to do a thing as nearly right as he knew how
                        in the beginning, and to do it the same way until a better method presented
                        itself.
                    "Very well, thank you, Mr. Cable, except that Jane has been abusing
                        me because you were not here to"
                    "Don't you believe a word he says, dad," she
                        cried.
                    "Oh, if the truth isn't in me, I'll
                        subside," laughed  Graydon.
                        "Nevertheless, you've kept her waiting, and it's
                        only reasonable that she should abuse somebody."
                    "I am glad you were here to receive it; it saves my grey
                        hairs."
                    "Rubbish!" was Miss Cable's simple comment, as her
                        father took his place beside her.
                    "Oh, please drive on, Jane," said the young man, his
                        admiring eyes on the girl who grasped the reins afresh and straightened like
                        a soldier for inspection. "I must run around to the University Club
                        and watch the score of the Yale-Harvard game at Cambridge. It looks like
                        Harvard, hand it all! Great game, they say"
                    "There he goes on football. We must be off, or it will be dark
                        before we get away from him. Good-bye!" cried Miss Cable.
                    "How's your father, Gray? He wasn't feeling the
                        best in the world, yesterday," said Cable, tucking in the robe.
                    "A case of liver, Mr. Cable; he's all right to-day.
                        Good-bye!"
                    As Jane and her father whirled away, the latter gave utterance to a remark
                        that brought a new brightness to her eyes and a proud throbbing to her
                        heart; but he did not observe the effect.
                    "Bright, clever chapthat Graydon Bansemer," he said
                        comfortably.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE CABLES
                    THE General Manager of the Pacific, Lakes &
                        Atlantic Railroad System had had a hard struggle of it. He who begins his
                        career with a shovel in a locomotive cab usually has something of that sort
                        to look back upon. There are no roses along the pathway he has traversed. In
                        the end, perhaps, he wonders if it has been worth while. David Cable was a
                        General Manager; he had been a fireman. It had required twenty-five years of
                        hard work on his part to break through the chrysalis. Packed away in a chest
                        upstaris in his house there was a grimy, greasy, unwholesome suit of
                        once-blue overalls. The garments were just as old as his railroad career,
                        for he had worn them on his first trip with the shovel. When his wife
                        implored him to throw away the "detestable things," he
                        said, with characteristic humour, that he thought he would keep them for a
                        rainy day. It was much simpler to go from General Manager to fireman than
                            vice versa, and it might be that he would need the
                        suit again. It pleased him to hear his wife sniff contemptuously.
                    David Cable had been a wayward, venturesome youth. His father and mother had
                        built their hopes high with him as a foundation, and he had proved a
                        decidedly insecure basis; for one night, in the winter of 1863,  he stole away from his home in New York;
                        before spring he was fighting in the far Southland, a boy of sixteen
                        carrying a musket in the service of his country.
                    At the close of the Civil War Private Cable, barely eighteen, returned to his
                        home only to find that death had destroyed its happiness: his father had
                        died, leaving his widowed mother a dependant upon him. It was then,
                        philosophically, he realised that labour alone could win for him; and he
                        stuck to it with rigid integrity. In turn, he became brakeman and fireman;
                        finally his determination and faithfulness won him a fireman's
                        place on one of the fast New York Central "runs." If ever
                        he was dissatisfied with the work, no one was the wiser.
                    Railroading in those days was not what it is in these advanced times. Then,
                        it meant that one was possessed of all the evil habits that fall to the lot
                        of man. David Cable was more or less contaminated by contact with his rough,
                        ribald companions of the rail, and he glided moderately into the bad habits
                        of his kind. He drank and "gamboled" with the rest of the
                        boys; but by nature not being vicious and low, the influences were not
                        hopelessly deadening to the better qualities of his character. To his
                        mother, he was always the strong, good-hearted, manly boy, better than all
                        the other sons in the world. She believed in him; he worshipped her; and it
                        was not until he was well up in the twenties that he stopped to think that
                        she was not the only good woman in the world who deserved respect.
                    
                    Up in Albany lived the Widow Coleman and her two pretty daughters. Mrs.
                        Coleman's husband died on the battlefield, and she, like many women
                        inthe North and the South, after years of moderate prosperity, was compelled
                        to support herself and her family. She had been a pretty woman, and one
                        readily could see where her daughters got their personal attractiveness. Not
                        many doors from the boisterous little eating-house in which the railroad men
                        snatched their meals as they went through, the widow opened a book and
                        newsstand. Her home was on the floor above the stand, and it was there she
                        brought her little girls to womanhood. Goodlooking, harum-scarum Dave Cable
                        saw Frances Coleman one evening as he dropped in to purchase a newspaper. It
                        was at the end of June, in 1876, and the country was in the throes of
                        excitement over the first news of the Custer massacre on the Little Big Horn
                        River.
                    Cable was deeply interested, for he had seen Custer fighting at the front in
                        the sixties. Frances Coleman, the prettiest girl he had ever seen, sold him
                        the newspaper. After that, he seldom went through Albany without visiting
                        the little book shop.
                    Tempestuous, even arrogant in love, Cable, once convinced that he cared for
                        her, lost no time in claiming her, whether or no. In less than three months
                        after the Custer massacre they were married.
                    Defeated rivals unanimously and enviously observed that the handsomest
                        fireman on the road had conquered the most outrageous little coquette
                        between New York and Buffalo. As a matter of fact, she had loved him  from the start; the others served as thorns
                        with which she delightedly pricked his heart into subjection.
                    The young husband settled down, renounced all of his undesirable habits and
                        became a new man with such surprising suddenness that his friends marvelled
                        andderided. A year of happiness followed. He grew accustomed to her
                        frivolous ways, overlooked her merry whimsicalities and gave her the
                        "full length of a free rope," as he called it. He was
                        contented and consequently careless. She chafed under the indifference, and
                        in her resentment believed the worst of him. Turmoil succeeded peace and
                        contentment, and in the end, David Cable, driven to distraction, weakly
                        abandoned the domestic battlefield and fled to the Far West, giving up home,
                        good wages, and all for the sake of freedom, such as it was. He ignored her
                        letters and entreaties, but in all those months that he was away from her he
                        never ceased to regret the impulse that had defeated him. Nevertheless, he
                        could not make up his mind to go back and resume the life of torture her
                        jealousy had begotten.
                    Then, the unexpected happened. A letter was received containing the command
                        to come home and care for his wife and baby. At once, David Cable called a
                        halt in his demoralising career and saw the situation plainly. He forgot
                        that she had "nagged" him to the point where endurance
                        rebelled; he forgot everything but the fact that he cared for her in spite
                        of all. Sobered and conscience-stricken, he knew only that she was alone and
                        toiling; that she had suffered uncomplainingly until the babe was some
                        months old before appealing  to him for help.
                        In abject humiliation, he hastened back to New York, reproaching himself
                        every mile of the way. Had he but known the true situation, he would have
                        been spared the pangs of remorse, and this narrative never would have been
                        written.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    JAMES BANSEMER
                    IN the City of New York there was practising, at that
                        time, a lawyer by the name of Bansemer. His office, on the topmost floor of
                        a dingy building in the lower section of the city, was not inviting. On
                        leaving the elevator, one would about through narrow halls and finally
                        peered, with more or less uncertainty and misgiving, at the half-obliterated
                        sign which said that James Bansemer held forth on the other side of the
                        glass panel.
                    It was whispered in certain circles and openly avowed in others that
                        Bansemer's business was not the kind which elevates the law; in
                        plain words, his methods were construed to debase the good and honest
                        statutes of the land. Once inside the door of his officeand a heavy spring
                        always closed it behind onethere was quick evidence that the lawyer
                        lamentably disregarded the virtues of prosperity, no matter how they had
                        been courted and won. Although his transactions in and out of the courts of
                        that great city bore the mark of dishonour, he was known to have made money
                        during the ten years of his career as a member of the bar. Possibly he kept
                        his office shabby and unclean that it might be in touch with the
                        transactions which had their morbid birth inside the grimy walls. There was
                        no spot or corner in the two small rooms that comprised his  "chambers" to which he could
                        point with pride. The floors were littered with papers; the walls were
                        greasy and bedecked with malodorous notations, documents and pictures; the
                        windows were smoky and useless; the clerk's desk bore every
                        suggestion of dissoluteness.
                    But little less appalling to one's aesthetic sense was the clerk
                        himself. Squatting behind his wretched desk, Elias Droom peered across the
                        litter of papers and books with snaky but polite eyes, almost as inviting as
                        the spider who, with wily but insidious decorum, draws the guileless into
                        his web.
                    If one passed muster in the estimation of the incomprehensible Droom, he was
                        permitted, in due season, to pass through a second oppressive-looking door
                        and into the private office of Mr. James Bansemer, attorney-at-law and
                        solicitor. It may be remarked at this early stage that, no matter how long
                        or how well one may have known Droom, one seldom lingered to engage in
                        commonplaces with him. His was the most repellent personality imaginable.
                        When he smiled, one was conscious of a shock to the nervous system; when he
                        so far forgot himself as to laugh aloud, there was a distinct illustration
                        of the word "crunching"; when he spoke, one was almost
                        sorry that he had ears.
                    Bansemer knew but little of this freakish individual's history; no
                        one else had the temerity to inquire into his pastor to separate it from his
                        future, for that matter. Once, Bansemer ironically asked him why he had
                        never married. It was a full minute before the other lifted his eyes from
                        the sheet of legal cap, and by that time he was in full control of his
                        passion.
                    
                    "Look at me! Would any woman marry a thing like me?"
                    This was said with such terrible earnestness that Bansemer took care never to
                        broach the subject again. He saw that Droom's heart was not all
                        steel and brass.
                    Droom was middle-aged. His lank body and cadaverous face were constructed on
                        principles not generally accredited to nature as it applies to men. When
                        erect, his body swayed as if it were a stubborn reed determined to maintain
                        its dignity in the face of the wind; he did not walk, he glided. His long
                        square chin, rarely clean-shaven, protruded far beyond its natural orbit;
                        indeed, the attitude of the chin gave one an insight to the greedy character
                        of the man. At first glance, one felt that Droom was reaching forth with his
                        lower jaw to give greeting with his teeth, instead of his hand.
                    His neck was long and thin, and his turndown collar was at least two sizes
                        too large. The nose was hooked and of abnormal length, the tip coming well
                        down over the short, upper lip and broad mouth. His eyes were light blue,
                        and so intense that he was never known to blink the lashes. Topping them
                        were deep, wavering, black eyebrows that met above the nose, forming an
                        ominous, cloudy line across the base of his thin, high forehead. The crown
                        of his head, covered by long, scant strands of black hair, was of the type
                        known as "retreating and pointed." The forehead ran upward
                        and back from the brows almost to a point, and down from the pinnacle hung
                        the veil of hair, just as if he had draped it there with the same care he
                        might have  used in placing his best hat upon a
                        peg. His back was stooped, and the high, narrow shoulders were hunched
                        forward eagerly. Long arms and ridiculously thin legs, with big hands and
                        feet, tell the story of his extremities. When he was on his feet Droom was
                        more than six feet tall; as he sat in the low-backed, office chair he looked
                        to be less than five feet, over all. What became of that lank expanse of
                        bone and cuticle when he sat down was one of the mysteries that not even
                        James Bansemer could fathom.
                    The men had been classmates in an obscure law school down in Pennsylvania.
                        Bansemer was good-looking, forceful and young; while Droom was distinctly
                        his opposite. Where he came from no one knew and no one cared. He was past
                        thirty-five when he entered the schoolat least twelve years the senior of
                        Bansemer.
                    His appearance and attire proclaimed him to be from the country; but his
                        sophistry, his knowledge of the world and his wonderful insight into human
                        nature contradicted his looks immeasureably. A conflict or two convinced his
                        fellow students that he was more than a match for them in stealth and
                        cunning, if not in dress and deportment.
                    Elias Droom had not succeeded as a lawyer. He repelled people, growing more
                        and more bitter against the world as his struggles became harder. What
                        little money he had accumulatedHeaven alone knew how he came by itdwindled
                        to nothing, and he was in actual squalor when, later, Bansemer found him in
                        an attic in Baltimore. Even as he engaged the half-starved  wretch to become his confidential clerk the
                        lawyer shuddered and almost repented of his action.
                    But Elias Droom was worth his weight in gold to James Bansemer from that day
                        forth. His employer's sole aim in life was to get rich and thereby
                        to achieve power. His ambition was laudable, if one accepts the creed of
                        morals, but his methods were not so praiseworthy. After a year of two of
                        starvation struggles to get on with the legitimate, he packed up his
                        scruples and laid them awaytemporarily, he said. He resorted to sharp
                        practice, knavery, and all the forms of legal blackmail; it was not long
                        before his bank account began to swell. His business thrived. He was so
                        clever that not one of his shady proceedings reacted. It is safe to venture
                        that ninety-nine per cent. of the people who were bilked through his
                        manipulations promised, in the heat of virtuous wrath, to expose him, but he
                        had learned to smile in security. He knew that exposure for him meant
                        humiliation for the instigator, and he continued to rest easy while he
                        worked hard.
                    "You're getting rich at this sort of thing,"
                        observed Droom one day, after the lawyer had closed a particularly nauseous
                        deal to his own satisfaction, "but what are you going to do when
                        the tide turns?"
                    Bansemer, irritated on perceiving that the other was engaged in his
                        exasperating habit of rubbing his hands together, did not answer, but merely
                        thundered out: "Will you stop that!"
                    There was a faint suggestion of the possibility of a transition of the hands
                        to claws, as Droom abruptly desisted, but smilingly went on:
                    
                    "Some day, the other shark will get the better of you and
                        you'll have nothing to fall back on. You've been building
                        on mighty slim foundations. There isn't a sign of support if the
                        worst comes to the worst," he chuckled.
                    "It's a large world, Droom," said his employer
                        easily.
                    "And small also, according to another saying, "supplemented
                        Droom. "When a man's down, everybody kicks himI'm
                        afraid you could not survive the kicking."
                    Droom grinned so diabolically as again he resumed the rubbing of his hands
                        that the other turned away with an oath and closed the door to the inside
                        office. Bansemer was alone and where Droom's eyes could not see
                        him, but something told him that the grin hung outside the door for many
                        minutes, as if waiting for a chance to pop in and tantalise him.
                    Bansemer was a good-looking man of the coarser mouldthe kind of man that
                        merits a second look in passing, and the second look is not always in his
                        favour. He was thirty-five years of age, but looked older. His face was hard
                        and deeply marked with the lines of intensity. The black eyes were
                        fascinating in their brilliancy, but there was a cruel, savage light in
                        their depths. The nose and mouth were clean-cut and pitiless in their very
                        symmetry. Shortly after leaving college to hang out his shingle, he had
                        married the daughter of a minister. For two years her sweet influence kept
                        his efforts along the righteous path, but he writhed beneath the yoke of
                        poverty. His pride  suffered because he was
                        unable to provide her with more of the luxuries of life; in his selfish way,
                        he loved her. Failure to advance made him surly and ill-tempered, despite
                        her amiable efforts to lighten the shadows around their little home. When
                        the baby boy was born to them, and she suffered more and more from the
                        unkindness of privation, James Bansemer, by nature an aggressor, threw off
                        restraint and plunged into the traffic that soon made him infamously
                        successful. She died, however, before the taint of his duplicity touched
                        her, and he, even in his grief, felt thankful that she never was to know the
                        truth.
                    At this time Bansemer lived in comfort at one of the middle-class boarding
                        houses uptown, and the boy was just leaving the kindergarten for a private
                        school. Bansemer's calloused heart had one tender chamber, and in
                        it dwelt the little lad with the fair hair and grey eyes of the woman who
                        had died.
                    Late one November afternoon just before Bansemer put on his light topcoat to
                        leave the office for the day, Droom tapped on the glass panel of the door to
                        his private office. Usually, the clerk communicated with him by signala
                        floor button by which he could acquaint his master with much that he ought
                        to know, and the visitor in the outer office would be none the wiser. The
                        occasions were rare when he went so far as to tap on the door. Bansemer was
                        puzzled, and stealthily listened for sounds from the other side. Suddenly,
                        there came to his ears the voices of women, mingled with Droom's
                        suppressed but always raucous tones.
                    
                    Bansemer opened the door; looking into the outer office, he saw Droom swaying
                        before two women, rubbing his hands and smiling. One of the women carried a
                        small babe in her arms. Neither she nor her companion seemed quite at ease
                        in the presence of the lank guardian of the outer office.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE FOUNDLING
                    "LADY to see you!" announced Droom. The
                        shrewd, fearless genius of the inner room glanced up quickly and met the
                        prolonged, uncanny gaze of his clerk; unwillingly, his eyes fell.
                    "Confound it, Lias! will you ever quit looking at me like that!
                        There's something positively creepy in that stare of
                        yours!"
                    "Lady to see you!" repeated the clerk, shifting about
                        uneasily, and then gliding away to take his customary look at the long row
                        of books in the wall cases. He had performed this act a dozen times a day
                        for more than five years; the habit had become so strong that chains could
                        not have restrained him. It was what he considered a graceful way of
                        dropping out of notice, at the same time giving the impression that he was
                        constantly busy.
                    "Are you Mr. Bansemer?" asked the woman with the babe in
                        her arms, as he crossed into the outer office.
                    For a moment Bansemer purposely remained absorbed in the contemplation of his
                        finger nails; then he shot a sudden comprehensive glance which took in the
                        young woman, her burden and all the supposed conditions. There was no doubt
                        in his mind that here was another 
                        "paternity case," as he catalogued them in his big, black
                        book.
                    "I am," he replied shortly, for he usually made short,
                        quick work of such cases. There was not much money in them at best. They
                        spring from the lower and poorer classes. The rich ones who are at fault in
                        such matters never permit them to go to the point where a lawyer is
                        consulted. "Would you mind coming in to-morrow? I'm just
                        leaving for the day."
                    "It will take but a few minutes, sir, and it would be very hard for
                        me to get away again to-morrow," said the young woman nervously.
                        "I'm a governess in a family 'way uptown and my
                        days are not very free."
                    "Is this your baby?" asked Bansemer, more interested. The
                        word governess appealed to him; it meant that she had to do with wealthy
                        people, at least.
                    "Nothat iswell, not exactly," she replied confusedly. The
                        lawyer looked at her so sharply that she flinched under his gaze. A
                        kidnapper, thought he, with the quick cunning of one who deals in
                        stratagems. Instinctively he looked about as if to make sure that there were
                        no unnecessary witnesses to share the secret.
                    "Come into this room," said he suddenly. "Both of
                        you. See that we are not disturbed," he added, to Droom.
                        "I think I can give you a few minutes, madam, and perhaps some very
                        good advice. Be seated," he went on, closing the door after them.
                        His eyes rested on Droom's face for an instant as the door closed,
                        and he saw a particularly irritating grin struggling on his thin lips.
                        "Now, what is it? Be as brief as possible, please. I'm in
                        quite a hurry."
                    
                    It occurred to him at this juncture that the young woman was not particularly
                        distressed. Instead, her rather pretty face was full of eagerness and there
                        was a certain lightness in her manner that puzzled him for the moment. Her
                        companion was the older of the two and quite as prepossessing. Both were
                        neatly dressed and both looked as though they were or had been
                        bread-winners. If they had a secret, it was now quite evident to this
                        shrewd, quick thinker that it was not a dark one. In truth, he was beginning
                        to feel that something mischievous lurked in the attitude of the two
                        visitors.
                    "I want to ask how a person has to proceed to adopt a
                        baby," was the blunt and surprising remark that came from the one
                        who held the infant. Bansemer felt himself getting angry.
                    "Who wants to adopt it?" he asked shortly.
                    "I do, of course," she answered, so readily that the lawyer
                        stared. He scanned her from head to foot, critically; her face reddened
                        perceptibly. It surprised him to find that she was more than merely
                        good-looking; she was positively attractive!
                    "Are you a married woman?" he demanded.
                    "Yes," she answered, with a furtive glance at her
                        companion. "This is my sister," she added.
                    "I see. Where is your husband?"
                    "He is at homeor rather, at his mother's home. We are
                        living there now."
                    "I thought you said you were a governess?"
                    "That doesn't prevent me from having a home, does
                        it?" she explained easily. "I'm not a nurse, you
                        know."
                    
                    "This isn't your child, then?" he asked
                        impatiently.
                    "I don't know whose child it is." There was a new
                        softness in her voice that made him look hard at her while she passed a hand
                        tenderly over the sleeping babe. "She comes from a
                        foundling's home, sir."
                    "You cannot adopt a child unless supported by some
                        authority," he said. "How does she happen to be in your
                        possession; and what papers have you from the foundling's home to
                        show that the authorities are willing that you should have her? There is a
                        lot of red tape about such matters, madam."
                    "I thought perhaps you could manage it for me, Mr.
                        Bansemer," she said, plaintively. "They say you never fail
                        at anything you undertake." He was not sure there was a compliment
                        in her remark, so he treated it with indifference.
                    "I'm afraid I can't help you." The tone
                        was final.
                    "Can't you tell me how I'll have to proceed? I
                        must adopt the child, sir, one way or another." Her manner was more
                        subdued and there was a touch of supplication in her voice.
                    "Oh, you go into the proper court and make application,
                        that's all," he volunteered carelessly. "The
                        judge will do the rest. Does your husband approve of the plans?"
                    "He doesn't know anything about it?"
                    "What's that?"
                    "I can't tell him; it would spoil everything."
                    "My dear madam, I don't believe I understand you quite
                        clearly. You want to adopt the child and keep the matter dark so far as your
                        husband is concerned?  May I inquire the
                        reason?" Bansemer, naturally, was interested by this time.
                    "If you have time to listen, I'd like to tell you how it
                        all comes about. It won't take long. I want someone to tell me just
                        what to do and I'll pay for the advice, if it isn't too
                        expensive. I'm very poor, Mr. Bansemer; perhaps you won't
                        care to help me after you know that I can't afford to pay very
                        much."
                    "We'll see about that later," he said brusquely;
                        "go ahead with the story."
                    The young woman hesitated, glanced nervously at her sister as if for support,
                        and finally faced the expectant lawyer with a flash of determination in her
                        dark eyes. As she proceeded, Bansemer silently and somewhat disdainfully
                        made a study of the speaker. He concluded that she was scarcely of common
                        origin and was the possessor of a superficial education that had been
                        enlarged by conceitedness; furthermore, she was a person of selfish
                        instincts, but without the usual cruel impulses. There was little if any
                        sign of true refinement in the features, and yet, there was a strange
                        strength of purpose that puzzled him. As her story progressed, he solved the
                        puzzle. She had the strength to carry out a purpose that might further her
                        own personal interests; but not the will to endure sacrifice for the sake of
                        another. Her sister was larger and possessed a reserve that might have been
                        mistaken for deepness. He felt that she was hardly in sympathy with the
                        motives of the younger, more volatile woman.
                    "My husband is a railroad engineer and is ten years older than
                        I," the narrator said in the beginning. "I  wasn't quite nineteen when we were
                        marriedtwo years ago. For some time, we got along all right; then we began
                        to quarrel. He commenced to"
                    "Mr. Bansemer is in a hurry, Fan," broke in the older
                        sister, sharply; and then, repeating the lawyer's words:
                        "Be as brief as possible."
                    There was a world of reproach in the look which greeted the speaker.
                        Evidently, it was a grievous disappointment not to be allowed to linger over
                        the details.
                    "Well," she continued half pettishly; "it all
                        ended by his leaving home, job and everything. I had told him that I was
                        going to apply for a divorce. For three months I never heard from
                        him."
                    "Did you apply for a divorce?" asked the lawyer, stifling a
                        yawn.
                    "No, sir, I did not, although he did nothing towards my
                        support." The woman could not resist a slightly coquettish attempt
                        to enlist Bansemer's sympathy. "I obtained work at St.
                        Luke's Hospital for Foundlings, and after that, as a governess.
                        But, once a week I went back to the asylum to see the little ones. One day,
                        they brought in a beautifully dressed babya girl. She was found on a
                        doorstep, and in the basket was a note asking that she be well cared for;
                        with it, was a hundred dollar bill. The moment I saw the little thing, I
                        fell in love with her. I made application and they gave me the child with
                        the understanding that I was to adopt it. You see, I was lonelyI had been
                        living alone for nine or ten months. The authorities knew nothing of my
                        trouble with Mr. Cablethat's my husband,  David Cable. The child was about a month old when I took her to
                        his mother, whom I hadn't seen in months. I told Mrs. Cable that
                        she was mine. The dear old lady believed me; half the battle was
                        won." She paused out of breath, her face full of excitement.
                    "And then?" he asked, once more interested.
                    "We both wrote to David asking him to come home to his wife and
                        baby." She looked away guiltily. For a full minute, Bansemer did
                        not speak.
                    "The result?" he demanded.
                    "He came back last month."
                    "Does he know the truth?"
                    "No, and with God's help, he never shall! It's my
                        only salvation!" she exclaimed emotionally. He thinks she is his
                        baby andand" The tears were on her cheeks, now. "I worship
                        him, Mr. Bansemer! Oh, how good and sweet he has been to me since he came
                        back! Now, don't you see why I must adopt this child, and why he
                        must never know? If he learned that I had deceived him in this way, he would
                        hate me to my dying day."
                    The infant was awake and staring at him with wide, blue eyes.
                    "And you want me to handle this matter so that your husband will be
                        none the wiser?"
                    "Oh, Mr. Bansemer," she cried; "it means
                        everything to me! All depends on this baby. I must adopt her, or the asylum
                        people won't let me keep her. Can't it be done so quickly
                        that he'll never find it out?"
                    "How many people know that the child is not yours?"
                    
                    "My sister and the authorities at the asylum; not another
                        soul."
                    "It is possible to arrange the adoption, Mrs. Cable, but I
                        can't guarantee that Mr. Cable will not find it out. The records
                        will show the fact, you know. There is but one way to avoid
                        discovery."
                    "And that, please?"
                    "Leave New York and make your home in some distant city.
                        That's the safe way. If you remain here, there is always a chance
                        that he may find out. I see the position you're in and
                        I'll help you. It can be done quite regularly and there is only one
                        thing you'll have to fearyou own tongue," he concluded,
                        pointedly.
                    "I hate New York, Mr. Bansemer. David likes the West and
                        I'll go anywhere on earth, if it will keep him from finding out.
                        Oh, if you knew how he adores her!" she cried, regret and ecstasy
                        mingling in her voice. "I'd give my soul if she were only
                        mine!" Bansemer's heart was too roughly calloused to be
                        touched by the wistful longing in these words.
                    Before the end of the week the adoption of the foundling babe was a matter of
                        record; and the unsuspecting David Cable was awaiting a reply from the
                        train-master of a big Western railroad, to whom, at the earnest, even eager,
                        solicitation of his wife, he had applied for work. Elias Droom made a note
                        of the fee in the daybook at the office, but asked no questions. Bansemer
                        had told him nothing of the transaction, but he was confident that the
                        unspeakable Droom knew all about it, even though he had not been nearer than
                        the outer office during any of the consultations.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE BANSEMER CRASH
                    TWENTY long years had passed since David and Frances Cable
                        took their hasty departurevirtually fleeing from New York City, their
                        migrations finally ending in that thriving Western cityDenver. Then, the
                        grime of the engine was on Cable's hands and deep beneath his skin;
                        the roar of iron and steel and the rush of wind was ever in his ears; the
                        ques of danger in his eye; but there was love, pride and a new ambition in
                        his heart. Now, in 1898, David Cable's hands were white and strong;
                        the grime was gone; the engineer's cap had given way to the silk
                        tile of the magnate; and the shovel was a memory.
                    But his case was not unique in that day and age of pluck and luck. Many
                        another man had gone from the bottom to the top with the speed and security
                        of the elevator car in the lofty "sky-scrapers." In the
                        heartless revolution of a few years, he became the successor of his Western
                        benefactor. The turn that had been kind to him, was unkind to his friend and
                        predecessor; the path that led upward for David Cable, ran the other way for
                        the train-master, who years afterward died in his greasy overalls and the
                        close-fitting cap of an engineer. One night Cable read the news of the wreck
                        with all the joy gone from his heart.
                    From the cheap, squalid section of town known as  "railroad end," Cable's rising influence
                        carried him to the well-earned luxury. The lines of care and toil mellowed
                        in the face of his pretty wife, as the years rolled by; her comely figure
                        shed the cheap raiment of "hard, old days," and took on
                        the plumage of prosperity. Trouble, resentment, and worry disappeared as if
                        by magic, smoothed out by the satiny touch of comfort's fingers.
                        She went upward much faster than her husband, for her ambitions were less
                        exacting. She longed to shine sociallyhe loathed the thought of it. But
                        Cable was proud of his wife. He enjoyed the transition that lifted her up
                        with steady strength to the plane which fitted her bestas he regarded it.
                        She had stuck by him nobly and uncomplainingly through the vicissitudes; it
                        delighted him to give her the pleasures.
                    Frances Cable was proud; but she had not been too proud to stand beside the
                        man with the greasy overalls and to bend her fine, young strength to work in
                        unison with his. Together, facing the task, cheerfully, they had battled and
                        won.
                    There were days when it was hard to smile; but the next day always brought
                        with it a fresh sign of hope. The rough, har- days in the
                        Far West culminated in his elevation to the office of General Manager of the
                        great railroad system, whose headquarters and home were in the city of
                        Chicago. Attaining this high place two years prior to the opening of this
                        narrative, he was regarded now as one of the brainiest railroad men and
                        slated to be president of the road at the next meeting.
                    
                    Barely past fifty years of age, David Cable was in the prime of life and
                        usefulness. Age and prosperity had improved him greatly. The iron grey of
                        his hair, the keen brightness of his face, the erect, and soldierly carriage
                        of his person made him a striking figure. His wife, ten years his junior,
                        was one of the most attractive women in Chicago. Her girlish beauty had
                        refined under the blasts of adversity; years had not been unkind to her. In
                        a way, she was the leader of a certain set, but her social ambitions were
                        not content. There was a higher altitude in fashion's realm. Money,
                        influence and perseverance were her allies; social despotism her only
                        adversary.
                    The tall, beautiful and accomplished daughter of the Cables was worshipped by
                        her father with allthe warmth and ardour of his soul. Times there were when
                        he looked in wonder upon this arbiter of not a few manly destinies; and for
                        his life could not help asking himself how the Creator had given him such a
                        being for a child, commenting on the fact that she bore resemblance to
                        neither parent.
                    For years, Mrs. Cable had lived in no little terror of some day being found
                        out. As the child grew to womanhood, the fears gradually
                        diminis- ed and a sense of security that would not be
                        distrubed replaced them. Then, just as she was reaching out for the chief
                        prizes of her ambition, she came face to face with a man, whose visage she
                        never had forgottenElias Droom! And Frances Cable looked again into the old
                        and terrifying shadows!
                    It was late in the afternoon, and she was crossing the  sidewalk to her carriage waiting near Field's, when a
                        man brushed against her. She was conscious of a strange oppressiveness.
                        Before she turned to look at him she knew that a pair of staring eyes were
                        upon her face. Something seemed to have closed relentlessly upon her heart.
                    One glance was sufficient. The tall, angular form stood almost over her; the
                        two, wide, blue eyes looked down in feigned surprise; the
                        never-to-be-forgotten voice greeted her, hoarsely:
                    "Good afternoon, Mrs. Cable! And how is the baby?"
                    "The baby!" she faltered. Struggle against it as she would,
                        a sort of fascination drew her gaze toward the remarkable face of the old
                        clerk. "Whywhyshe's very well, thank you," she
                        finally stammered. Her face was as white as a ghost; with a shudder she
                        started to pass him. Droom, blocked the way.
                    "She was such a pretty little thing, I remember;" and then,
                        insinuatingly: "Where is her father, now?"
                    "HeMr. Cable," answered Mrs. Cable, feeling very much as a
                        bird feels when it is charmed by a snake, "why, he's at
                        home, of course."
                    "Indeed!" was all that Elias Droom said; for she had fled
                        to escape the grin that writhed in and out among the wrinkles of his face.
                    As her carriage struggled through crowded Washington Street, an irresistible
                        something compelled Frances Cable to glance back. Droom stood on the curb,
                        his eyes following her almost hungrily. Half an hour later, when she reached
                        home, she was in a state of  collapse. Although
                        there was no physical proof of the fact, she was positive that Elias Droom
                        had followed her to the very doorstep.
                    In suspense and dread, she waited for days before there was a second
                        manifestation of Droom. There was rarely a day when she did not expect her
                        husband to stand before her and ask her to explain the story that had been
                        carried to him by a demon in the form of man.
                    But Droom did not go to David Cable. He went to James Bansemer with the news.
                    James Bansemer's law and loan offices were not far from the river
                        and, it is sufficient to say, not much farther from State Street. He who
                        knows Chicago well cannot miss the location more than three blocks, either
                        way, if he takes City Hall as a focal point. The office building in which
                        they were located is not a pretentious structure, but its tenants were then
                        and still are regarded as desirable. It may be well to announce that
                        Bansemer, on reaching Chicago, was clever enough to turn over a new leaf and
                        begin work on a clear, white page, but it is scarcely necessary to add that
                        the black, besmirched lines on the opposite side of the sheet could be
                        traced through every entry that went down on the fresh white surface.
                        Bansemer was just as nefarious in his transactions, but he was a
                        thousandfold more cautious. Droom sarcastically reminded him that he had a
                        reputation to protect, in his new field and, besides, as his son was
                        "going in society" through the influence of a coterie of
                        Yale men, it would be worse than criminal to deteriorate.
                    
                    Bansemer loathed Droom, but he also feared him. He was the only living
                        creature that inspired fear in the heart of this bold schemer. It is true
                        that he feared the effect an exposure might have on the mind of his stalwart
                        son, the boy with his mother's eyes; but he had succeeded so well
                        in blinding the youth in the years gone by, that the prospects of discovery
                        now seemed too remote for concern. The erstwhile New York
                        "shark" was now an eel, wily and elusive, but he was an
                        eel with a shark's teeth and a shark's voraciousness. He
                        had grown old in the study of this particular branch of natural history.
                        Bansemer was fifty-five years old in this year of 1898. He was thinner than
                        in the old New York days, but the bull-like vigour had given way to the wiry
                        strength of the leopard. The once black hair was almost white, and grew low
                        and thick on his forehead. Immaculately dressed, ever straight and
                        aggressive in carriage, he soon became a figure of whom all eyes took
                        notice, even in the most crowded of Chicago thoroughfares.
                    Graydon Bansemer, on leaving Yale with a diploma and some of the honours of
                        his class, urged his father to take him into his office, and ultimately to
                        make him a partner in the business. James Bansemer never forgot the
                        malicious grin that crossed the face of Elias Droom when the young fellow
                        made the proposition not more than a fortnight before the Bansemer
                        establishment picked itself up and hastily deserted New York. That grin
                        spoke plainer than all the words in language. Take him into the office? Make
                        this honest, grey-eyed boy a partner? It was no wonder that  Droom grinned and it is no wonder that he
                        forgot to cover his mouth with his huge hand, as was his custom.
                    The proposition, while sincere and earnest, was too impossible for words. For
                        once in his life, James Bansemer was at a loss for subterfuge. He stammered,
                        flushed and writhed in the effort to show the young man that the step would
                        be unprofitable, and he was sorely conscious that he had not convinced the
                        eager applicant. He even urged him to abandon the thought of becoming a
                        lawyer, and was ably seconded by Elias Droom, whose opinion of the law, as
                        he had come to know it, was far from flattering.
                    Just at this time Bansemer was engaged in the most daring as well as the most
                        prodigious "deal" of his long career. With luck, it was
                        bound to enrich him to the extent of -50,000. The plans
                        had been so well prepared and the execution had been so faultless that there
                        seemed to be no possibility of failure. To take his fair-minded sonwith the
                        mother's eyesinto the game would be suicidal. The young fellow
                        would turn from him forever. Bansemer never went so far as to wonder whence
                        came the honest blood in the boy's veins, nor to speculate on the
                        origin of the unquestioned integrity. He had but to recall the woman who
                        bore him, the woman whose love was the only good thing he ever knew, the
                        wife he had worshipped while he sinned.
                    For years and years he had plied his unwholesome trade in reputations,
                        sometimes evading exposure by the narrowest of margins, and he had come to
                        believe that he was secure for all time to come. But it was the
                        "big job" that brought disaster. Just when it looked  as though success was assured, the crash came.
                        He barely had time to cover his tracks, throw the figurative pepper into the
                        eyes of his enemies, and get away from the scene of danger. But, he had been
                        clever and resourceful enough to avoid the penalty that looked inevitable
                        and came off with colours trailing but uncaptured.
                    Perhaps no other man could have escaped; but James Bansemer was cleverest
                        when in a corner. He backed away, held them at bay until he could recover
                        his breath, and then defied them to their teeth. Despite their proof, he
                        baffled them, and virtue was not its own rewardat least in this instance.
                    In leaving New York, he hoped that Elias Droomwho knew too muchmight refuse
                        to go into the new territory with him, but the gaunt, old clerk took an
                        unnatural and malevolent delight in clinging to his employer. He declined to
                        give up his place in the office, and, although he hated James Bansemer, he
                        came like an accusing shadow into the new offices near the Chicago River,
                        and there he toiled, grinned and scowled with the same old faithfulness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    IN SIGHT OF THE FANGS
                    AT first, it was hard for James Bansemer to believe that
                        his henchman had not been mistaken. Droom's description of the lady
                        certainly did not correspond to what his memory recalled. Investigation,
                        however, assured him that the Cables in the mansion near the lake were the
                        people he had known in New York. Bansemer took no one into his confidence,
                        not even Droom. Once convinced that the erstwhile fireman was now the rich
                        and powerful magnate, he set to work upon the machinery which was to extract
                        personal gain from the secret in his possession. He soon learned that the
                        child was a young woman of considerable standing in society, but there was
                        no way for him to ascertain whether Frances Cable had told the truth to her
                        husband in those dreary Far West days.
                    Bansemer was rich enough, but avarice had become a habit. The flight from New
                        York had deprived him of but little in worldly goods. His ill-gotten gains
                        came with him; and investments were just as easy and just as safe in Chicago
                        as in New York. Now, he saw a chance to wring a handsome sum from the rich
                        woman whose only possession had been love when he first knew her. If the
                        secret of Jane's origin still remained locked up in her heart, the
                        effort would be an easy one. He learned enough of David Cable, however, to
                        know that  if he shared the secret, the plan
                        would be profitless and dangerous.
                    It was this uncertainty that kept him from calling at the Cable home;
                        likewise, from writing a note which might prove a most disastrous folly.
                        Time and circumstance could be his only friends, and he was accustomed to
                        the whims of both. He read of the dinners and entertainments given by the
                        Cables, and smiled grimly. Time had worked wonders for them! Scandal, he
                        knew, could undo all that ambition and pride had wrought. He could well
                        afford to wait.
                    However, he did not have long to wait, for his opportunity came one night in
                        Hooley's Theatre. Graydon and he occupied seats in the orchestra,
                        near the stage and not far from the lower right-hand boxes. It was during
                        the busy Christmas holidays, but the "star" was of
                        sufficient consequence to pack the house. The audience was no end of a
                        fashionable one. Time and again, some strange influence drew his gaze to the
                        gay party in one of the lower boxes. The face of the woman nearest to him
                        was not visible; but the two girls who sat forward, turned occasionally to
                        look over the audience; and he saw that they were pretty, one exceptionally
                        so. One of the men was grey-haired and strong-featured; the others were
                        quite too insignificant to be of interest to him. The woman whose back he
                        could see did not look out over the audience. Her indifference was so marked
                        that it seemed deliberate.
                    At last, he felt that her eyes were upon him; he turned quickly. True enough,
                        for with lips slightly parted, her whole attitude suggestive of intense
                        restraint, Mrs.  Cable was staring helplessly
                        into the eys of the man who could destroy her with a word.
                    The one thing that flashed through Bansemer's brain was the
                        realisation that she was far more beautiful than he had expected her to be.
                        There was a truly aristocratic loveliness in the rather piquant face, and
                        she undeniably possessed "manner." Maturity had improved
                        her vastly, he confessed with strange exultation; age had been kinder than
                        youth. He forgot the play, seldom taking his eyes from the back which again
                        had been turned to him. Calculating, he reached the conclusion that she was
                        not more than forty years of age. More than once he made some remark to his
                        son, only to surprise that young man glancing surreptitiously at the face of
                        the more beautiful of the two girls. Even in this early stage, James
                        Bansemer began to gloat over the beauty of this new-found, old acquaintance.
                    In the lobby of the theatre, as they were leaving, he deliberately doffed his
                        hat and extended a pleasant hand to the wife of David Cable. She turned
                        deathly pale and there was a startled, piteous look in her eyes that
                        convinced him beyond all shadow of a doubt. There was nothing for her to do
                        but introduce him to her husband. Two minutes later Graydon Bansemer and
                        Jane Cable, strangers until then, were asking each other how they liked the
                        play, and Fate was at work.
                    A few weeks after this scene at the theatre young Mr. Bansemer dashed across
                        the hall from the elevator and entered his father's office just as
                        Elias Droom was closing up.
                    
                    "Where's the governor, Mr. Droom?" he asked,
                        deliberately brushing past the old clerk in the outer office.
                    "Left some time ago," replied Droom, somewhat ungraciously,
                        his blue eyes staring past the young man with a steadiness that suggested
                        reproach because he was out of the direct line of vision. "It is
                        nearly six o'clockhe's never here after five."
                    "I know that heI asked you if you knew of his whereabouts. Do youor
                        not?" The self-confident, athletic youth did not stand in physical
                        awe of the clerk.
                    "No," was the simple and sufficient answer.
                    "Well thenI'm off," said Graydon a trifle less
                        airily.
                    Droom's overcoat was on and buttoned up to his chin; his long feet
                        were encased in rubbers of enormous size and uncertain age. There must have
                        been no blood in the veins of this grim old man, for the weather was far
                        from cold and the streets were surprisingly dry for Chicago.
                    "I am closing the office for the day," said Droom. For no
                        apparent reason a smile spread over the lower part of his face and Graydon,
                        bold as he was, turned his eyes away.
                    "I thought I'd stop in and pick up the governor for a ride
                        home in my motor," said he, turning to the door.
                    "Yours is one of the first out here, I suppose," came from
                        the thin lips of the old clerk.
                    Graydon laughed.
                    "Possibly. The company charges a nickel a ridehalf a dimeGoing down,
                        sir?" Graydon had rung  for the
                        elevator and was waiting in front of the grating.
                    A look containing a curious compound of affectionate reproach and a certain
                        senile gratification at being made the object of the boy's
                        condescending raillery crossed Droom's countenance. Without,
                        however, answering his question, he slowly and carefully closed the door,
                        tried it vigorously, and joined Bansemer at the shaft. With Droom, words
                        were unnecessary when actions could speak for themselves.
                    "Still living over in Wells Street, Mr. Droom?" went on
                        Graydon, thoroughly at home with the man whom he had feared and despised by
                        stages from childhood up.
                    "It's good enough for me," said Droom shortly.
                    "'Tisn't Michigan Avenue, the Drive or Lincoln
                        Park Boulevard, but it's just as swell as I amor ever hope to
                        be."
                    "There's nothing against Wells Street butit got ashamed of
                        itself when it crossed the river."
                    "They call it Fifth Avenue," sneered Droom, "but
                        it isn't the Avenue, is it?" Bansemer
                        was surprised to note a tone of affectionate pride in the question.
                    "No indeed!"
                    "Oh, there's only one, Mr. Graydon," said the old
                        clerk, quite warmly; "our own Fifth Avenue."
                    "I had no idea you cared so much for swagger things, Mr.
                        Droom," observed the other, genuinely surprised.
                    "Even Broadway is heaven to me," said Droom, some of the
                        rasp gone from his voice. "Good-bye; I go  this way," he said when they reached the sidewalk a
                        little later. The young man watched his gaunt figure as it slouched away in
                        the semi-darkness.
                    "By George, the old chap is actually homesick!" muttered
                        he. "I didn't think it was in him."
                    Droom had rooms over a millinery shop in Wells Street. There was a bedroom at
                        the back and a "livingroom" in front, overlooking the
                        street from the third story of the building. Of the bedchamber there is but
                        little to say, except that it contained a bed, a washstand, a mirror, two
                        straight-backed chairs and a clothes-press. Droom went out for his bathevery
                        Saturday night. The "living-room," however, was queer in
                        more ways than one. In one corner, on a chest of drawers, stood his oil
                        stove, while in the opposite corner a big sheet-iron heater made itself
                        conspicuous. Firewood was piled behind the stove winter and summer, Droom
                        lamenting that one could not safely discriminate between the seasons in
                        Chicago. The chest of drawers contained his stock of provisions, his cooking
                        and table utensils, his medicine and a small assortment of
                        carpenter's tools. He had no use for an icebox.
                    A bookcase, old enough to warm the heart of the most ardent antiquarian, held
                        his small and unusual collection of books. Standing side by side, on the
                        same shelf, were French romances, unexpurgated, and the Holy Bible, much
                        bethumbed and pencilled. There were schoolbooks alongside of sentimental
                        love tales, Greek lexicons and quaint old fairy stories, law books and works
                        on criminology; books on botany, geology, anatomy, and physics. In all,
                        perhaps, there were two  hundred volumes. A
                        life of Napoleon revealed signs of almost constant usage. There were three
                        portraits of the Corsican on the dingy green walls.
                    The strange character of the man was best shown by the pictures that
                        adornedor rather disfigured the walls. Vulgar photographs and prints were to
                        be seen on all sides. Mingled with these cheap creations were excellent
                        copies of famous Madonnas, quaint Scriptural drawings, engravings of the
                        Saviour, and an allegorical coloured print which emphasised the joys of
                        heaven. There was also a badly drawn but idealised portrait of Droom, done
                        in crayon at the age of twenty. This portrait was one of his prized
                        possessions. He loved it best because it was a bust and did not expose his
                        longitudinal defects. If Droom ever had entertained a feminine visitor in
                        his apartments, there is no record of the fact. But few men had seen the
                        interior of his home, and they had gone away with distressed, perplexed
                        sensibilities.
                    He cooked his own meals on the oil stove, and, alone, ate them from the
                        little table that stood near the heater. Occasionally, he went out to a
                        near-by eating house for a lonely feast. His rooms usually reeked with the
                        odour of boiled coffee, burnt cabbage and grease, pungent chemicals and
                        long-suffering bed linen. Of his "front" room, it may be
                        said that it was kitchen, dining-room, parlour, library, workshop,
                        laboratory and conservatory. Four flower-pots in which as many geraniums
                        existed with difficulty, despite Droom's constant and unswerving
                        care, occupied a conspicuous place on the window-sills overlooking the
                        street. He watched  over them with all the
                        tender solicitude of a lover, surprising as it may appear when one pauses to
                        consider the vicious exterior of the man.
                    Droom was frugal. He was, in truth, a miser. If anyone had asked him what he
                        expected to do with the money he was putting away in the bank, he could not
                        have answered, calculating as he was by nature. He had no relative to whom
                        he would leave it and he had no inclination to give up the habit of active
                        employment. His salary was small, but he managed to save more than half of
                        itfor a "rainy day," as he said. He did his reading and
                        experimenting by kerosene light, and went to bed by candle light, saving a
                        few pennies a week in that way. The windows in his apartment were washed not
                        oftener than once a year. He was seldom obliged to look through them during
                        the day, and their only duty at night was to provide ventilationand even
                        that was characteristically meagre.
                    He was a man of habitnot habits. A pipe at night was his only form of
                        dissipation. It was not too far for him to walk home from the office of
                        evenings, and he invariably did so unless the weather was extremely
                        unpleasant. So methodical was he that he never had walked over any other
                        bridge than the one in Wells Street, coming and going.
                    Past sixty-five years of age, Droom's hair still was black and
                        snaky; his teeth were as yellow and jagged as they were in the seventies,
                        and his eyes were as blue and ugly as ever. He had not aged with James
                        Bansemer. In truth, he looked but little older then when we made his
                        acquaintance. The outside world knew no  more
                        of Droom's private transactions than it knew of
                        Bansemer's. Up in the horrid little apartment in Wells Street the
                        queer old man could do as he willed, unobserved and unannoyed. He could
                        pursue his experiments with strange chemicals, he could construct odd
                        devices with his kit of tools, and he could let off an endless amount of
                        inventive energy that no one knew he possessed.
                    When he left Graydon Bansemer on the sidewalk in front of the office
                        building, he swung off with his long strides towards the Wells Street
                        bridge. His brain had laid aside everything that had occupied its attention
                        during office hours and had given itself over to the project that hastened
                        his steps homeward. His supper that night was a small one and hurriedly
                        eaten in order that he might get to work on his new device. Droom grinned
                        and cackled to himself all alone up there in the lamplight, for he was
                        perfeeting an "invention" by which the honest citizen
                        could successfully put to rout the "hold-up" man that has
                        made Chicago famous.
                    Elias Droom's inventive genius unfailingly led him toward devices
                        that could inflict pain and discomfiture. His plan to get the better of the
                        wretched, hard-working hold-up man was unique, if not entirely practical. He
                        was constructing the models for two little bulbs, made of rubber and lined
                        with a material that would resist the effects of an acid, no matter how
                        powerful. On one end of each bulb, which was capable of holding at least an
                        ounce of liquid, there was a thin syringe attachment, also proof against
                        acids. These little bulbs  were made so that
                        they could be held in the palm of the hand. By squeezing them suddenly a
                        liquid could be shot from the tube with considerable force.
                    The bulbs were to contain vitriol.
                    When the hold-up man gave the command to "hold up your
                        hands," the victim had only to squeeze the bulb as the hands went
                        up, and, if accurately aimed, the miscreant would get the stream of the
                        deadly vitriolic fluid in his eyes andhere endeth the first lesson.
                        Experience alone could do the rest.
                    Young Bansemer hurried to their apartments on the North Side. He found his
                        father dressed and ready to go out to dinner.
                    "Well, how was everything to-day?" asked James Bansemer
                        from his easy chair in the library. Graydon threw his hat and gloves on the
                        table.
                    "Terribly dull market, governor," he said.
                        "It's been that way for a week. How are you
                        feeling?"
                    "Fit to dine with a queen," answered the older man, with a
                        smile. "How soon can you dress for dinner, Gray?"
                    "That depends on who is giving the dinner."
                    "Some people you like. I found the note here when I came in a little
                        after five. We have an hour in which to get over there. Can you be
                        ready?"
                    "Do you go security for the affair?" asked Graydon.
                    "Certainly. You have been there, my boy, and I've not heard
                        you complain."
                    "You mean over at"
                    "Yes, that's where I mean," said the other,
                        breaking in quietly.
                    
                    "I think I can be ready in ten minutes, father."
                    While he was dressing, his father sat alone and stared reflectively at the
                        small blue gas blaze in the grate. A dark, grim smile unconsciously came
                        over his face, the inspiration of a triumphant joy. Twice he read the dainty
                        note that met him on his return from the office.
                    "What changes time can make in woman!" he mused;
                        "and what changes a woman can make in time! For nearly a year
                        I've waited for this note. I knew it would comeit was bound to
                        come. Graydon has had everything up to this time, while I have waited
                        patiently in the background. Now, it is my turn."
                    "All right, father," called Graydon from the hall.
                    "The cab is at the door."
                    Together they went down the steps, arm in arm, strong figures.
                    "To Mr. David Cable's," ordered Bansemer, the
                        father, complacently, as he stepped into the carriage after his son.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    MRS. CABLE ENTERTAINS
                    JAMES BANSEMER had not recklessly
                        rushed into Mrs. Cable's presence with threats of exposure; but on
                        the contrary, he had calmly, craftily waited. It suited his purpose to let
                        her wonder, dread and finally develop the trust that her secret was safe
                        with him. Occasionally, he had visited the Cable box in the theatre; not
                        infrequently he had dined with them in the downtown cafs and at the homes of
                        mutual acquaintances; but this was the first time that James Bansemer had
                        enjoyed the hospitality of Frances Cable's home. His son, on the
                        best of terms with their daughter, was a frequent visitor there.
                    There was a rare bump of progressiveness in the character of Graydon
                        Bansemer. He was good-looking enough beyond doubt, and there was a vast
                        degree of personal magnetism about him. It seemed but natural that he should
                        readily establish himself as a friend and a favourite of the fair Miss
                        Cable. For some time, James Bansemer had watched his son's progress
                        with the Cable family, not once allowing his personal interest to manifest
                        itself. It was but a question of time until Mrs. Cable's suspense
                        and anxiety would bring her to him, one way or another. Every word that fell
                        from the lips of his son regarding the  Cables
                        held his attention, and it was not long before he saw the family history as
                        clearly as though it were an open bookand he knew far more than the open
                        book revealed.
                    Frances Cable was not deluded by his silence and aloofness; but she was
                        unable to devise means to circumvent him. Constant fear of his power to
                        crush lurked near her day and night. Conscious of her weakness, but eager to
                        have done with the strife, sometimes she longed for the enemy to advance. At
                        first, she distrusted and despised the son, but his very fairness battered
                        down the barriers of prejudice, and real admiration succeeded. Her husband
                        liked him immensely, and Jane was his ablest ally. David Cable regarded him
                        as one of the brightest, young men on the Stock Exchange, and predicted that
                        some day he would be an influential member of the great brokerage firm for
                        which he now acted as confidential clerk. Mr. Clegg, the senior member of
                        the firm of Clegg, Groll & Davidson, his employers, personally had
                        commended young Bansemer to Cable, and he was properly impressed.
                    Graydon's devotion to Jane did not go unnoticed. This very condition
                        should have assured Mrs. Cable that James Bansemer had kept her secret
                        zealously. There was nothing to indicate that the young man knew the story
                        of the foundling.
                    It was not until some weeks after the chance meeting in Hooley's
                        Theatre that Mrs. Cable came into direct contact with James
                        Bansemer's designs. She had met him at two or three formal affairs,
                        but their conversations had been of the most conventional character; on  the other hand, her husband had lunched and
                        dined at the club with the lawyer. At first, she dreaded the outcome of
                        these meetings, but as Cablle's attitude towards her remained
                        unchanged, she began to realise that Bansemer, whatever his purpose, was
                        loyal.
                    They met at last, quite informally, at Mrs. Clegg's dinner, a small
                        and congenial affair. When the men came into the drawing-room, after the
                        cigars, Mrs. Cable, with not a little trepidation, motioned to Mr. Bansemer
                        to draw up his chair beside her.
                    "I have been looking forward with pleasure to this opportunity, Mr.
                        Bansemer," she said, in a courteously acidulated way. "It
                        has been so long in coming."
                    "Better late than never," he returned, with marked
                        emphasis. Fortunately, for her, the challenging significance of his words
                        was quickly nullified by the smile with which she was almost instantly
                        favoured. "Twenty years, I believeit certainly came very near being
                        'never,'" he went on, abruptly changing from
                        harsh to the sweetest of tones. "No one could believe that
                        youyou're simply wonderful!" and added, pointedly,
                        "But your daughter is even more beautiful, if such is possible,
                        than herher mother."
                    Apparently, the innuendo passed unnoticed; in reality, it required all her
                        courage to appear calm.
                    "How very nice of you," she said softly; and looking him
                        full in the face: "Her mother thanks you for the
                        compliment."
                    It was a brave little speech; such bravery would have softened a man of
                        another mouldchanged his purpose. Not so with Bansemer. A sinister gleam
                        came  into his eyes and his attack became more
                        brutally direct.
                    "But the husbandhas he never mistrusted?"
                    The blow told, though her reply was given with rippling laughter and for the
                        benefit of any chance listeners.
                    "For shame, Mr. Bansemer!" she cried lightly;
                        "after flattering me so delightfully, you're surely not
                        going to spoil it all?"
                    Despite his growing annoyance, admiration shone clearly from
                        Bansemer's eyes. His memory carried him back some twenty years to
                        the scene in his office. Was it possible, he was thinking, that the charming
                        woman before him exercising so cleverly all the arts of society, as if born
                        to the purple, and the light-headed, frivolous, little wife of the
                        Central's engineer were one and the same person? The metamorphosis
                        seemed incredible.
                    Unwittingly, his manner lost some of its aggressiveness; and the woman
                        perceiving the altered conditions, quick to take advantage, resolved to
                        learn, if possible his intentions. Presently, going right to the point, she
                        asked:
                    "Is that extraordinary looking creature you had in your office still
                        with you, Mr. Bansemer?"
                    "Extraordinary!" He laughed loudly. "He is
                        certainly that, and more. Indeed, the English language does not supply us
                        with an adjective that adequately describes the man."
                    The people nearest to them, by this time, had moved away to another part of
                        the large drawing-room; practically,  the
                        couple were by themselves. She had been thinking, for a moment, reasoning
                        with a woman's logic that it was always well to know one's
                        enemy. When she next spoke, it was almost in a whisper.
                    "How much does that terrible man know?"
                    "He is not supposed to know anything;" and then, with an
                        enigmatical smile, promptly admitted: "However, I'm afraid
                        that he does."
                    "You have told him? And yet, you promised nobody should know. How
                        could"
                    "My dear Mrs. Cable, he was not told; if he has found outI could not
                        prevent his discovering the truth through his own efforts," he
                        interrupted in a tone more assuaging than convincing to her; and then,
                        hitching his chair closer, and lowering his voice a note, he continued:
                        "The papers had to be taken outbut you must not worry about himyou
                        can depend on me."
                    "Promise me that you will make himI am so fearful of that
                        awful" she broke off abruptly. Her fears were proving too much for
                        her, and she was in imminent danger of a complete breakdown; all the veneer
                        with which she had bravely commenced the interview had disappeared.
                    Bansemer endeavoured to soothe her with promises; but the poor woman saw only
                        his teeth in the reassuring smile that he presented to her, together with
                        the warnings that they were likely to be observed. With the hardest kind of
                        an effort, she succeeded in pulling herself together sufficiently to bid
                        good-night to her hostess.
                    When Mrs. Cable reached home that night, it was 
                        with a full realisation that she was irrevocably committed into the custody
                        of these cold-blooded men.
                    They met again and again at the homes of mutual friends, and she had come to
                        loathe the pressure of his hand when it clasped hers. The undeniable caress
                        in his low, suggestive voice disturbed her; his manner was unmistakable. One
                        night he held her hand long and firmly in his, and while she shrank
                        helplessly before him he even tenderly asked why she had not invited him
                        into her home. It was what she had expected and feared. Her cup of
                        bitterness was filling rapidlytoo rapidly. His invitation to dinner a
                        fortnight later, followed.
                    Jane Cable was radiant as she entered the drawing-room shortly after the
                        arrival of the two Bansemers.
                    "It's quite like a family party! How splendid!"
                        she said to Graydon with a quick glance in the direction of James Bansemer
                        and David Cable, who stood conversing together, and withdrawing her soft,
                        white hand, which she had put forth to meet his in friendly clasp.
                        "It's too good to be true!" she went on in a
                        happy, spontaneous, almost confiding manner.
                    The two fathers looked on in amused silence, the one full of admiration and
                        pride for the clean, vigorous manhood of his son awaiting to receive welcome
                        from the adorable Jane; the other, long since conscious of the splendid
                        beauty of his daughter, mentally declaring that she never had appeared so
                        well as when standing beside this gallant figure.
                    Other guests arrived before Mrs. Cable made her 
                        appearance in the drawing-room. She had taken more time than usual with her
                        toilet. It was impossible for her to hide the fact that the strain was
                        telling on her perceptibly. The face that looked back into her eyes from the
                        mirror on her dressing-table was not the fresh, warm one that had needed so
                        little care a few short months before. There was a heaviness about the eyes
                        and there were strange, persistent lines gathering under the soft, white
                        tissues of her skin. But when she at last stepped into the presence of her
                        guests, with ample apologies for her tardiness, she was the picture of life
                        and nerve. So much for the excellent resources of her will.
                    Bansemer was the last to present himself for her welcome, lingering in the
                        background until the others had passed.
                    "I'm so glad you could come. Indeed, it's a
                        pleasure to" She spoke clearly and distinctly as she extended her
                        hand; but as she looked squarely into his eyes she thought him the ugliest
                        man she ever had seen. Every other woman in the party was saying to herself
                        that James Bansemer was strikingly handsome.
                    "Most pleasures come late in life to some of us," he
                        returned, gallantly, and even Graydon Bansemer wished that he could have
                        said it.
                    "Your father is a perfect dear," Jane said to him, softly.
                        "It was not what he said just then that pleased me, but what he
                        left unsaid."
                    "Father's no end of a good fellow, Jane. I'm glad
                        you admire him."
                    "You are not a bit like him," she said reflectively.
                    
                    "Thanks," he exclaimed. "You are not very
                        flattering."
                    "But you are a different sort of a good fellow, that's what
                        I mean. Don't be absurd," she cried in some little
                        confusion.
                    "I'm like my mother, they say, though I don't
                        remember her at all."
                    "Oh, how terrible it must be never to have known one's
                        mother," said she tenderly.
                    "Or one's father," added James Bansemer, who was
                        passing at that instant with Mrs. Cable. "Please include the
                        father, Miss Cable," he pleaded with mock seriousness. Turning to
                        Mrs. Cable, who had stopped beside him, he added: "You, the most
                        charming of mothers, will defend the fathers, won't you?"
                    "With all my heart," she answered so steadily that he was
                        surprised.
                    "I will include the father, Mr. Bansemer," said Jane,
                        "if it is guaranteed that he possibly could be as nice and dear as
                        one's mother. In that case, I think it would beoh, dreadfully
                        terrible never to have known him."
                    "And to think, Miss Cable, of the unfortunates who have known
                        neither father nor mother," said Bansemer, senior, slowly,
                        relentlessly. "How much they have missed of life and
                        love!"
                    "That can be offset somewhat by the thought of the poor parents who
                        never have known a son or a daughter," said Jane.
                    "How can they be parents, then?" demanded Bobby Rigby,
                        coming up in time.
                    
                    "Go away, Bobby," she said scornfully.
                    "That's a nice way to treat logic," he grumbled,
                        ambling on in quest of Miss Clegg.
                    "The debate will become serious if you continue," said Mrs.
                        Cable lightly. "Come along, Mr. Bansemer; Mrs. Craven is
                        waiting."
                    When they were across the room and alone, she turned a white face to him and
                        remonstrated bitterly: "Oh, that was cowardly of you after your
                        promise to me!"
                    "I forgot myself," he said quietly.
                        "Don't believe me to be utterly heartless." His
                        hand touched her arm. Instantly her assumed calm gave way to her deep
                        agitation, and with a swift change of manner, she turned on him, her passion
                        alight.
                    "You!" she stammered; then her fears found voice.
                        "What do you mean?" she demanded in smothered, alarmed
                        tones.
                    He desisted savagely and shrank away, the colour flaming into his disgusted,
                        saturnine face. He did not speak to her again until he said good-bye long
                        afterward.
                    As he had expected, his place at the dinner-table was some distance from
                        hers. He was across the table from Jane and Graydon, and several seats
                        removed from David Cable. He smiled grimly and knowingly when he saw that he
                        had been cut off cleverly from the Cables.
                    "To-morrow night, then, Jane!" said Graydon at parting. No
                        one was near enough to catch the tender eagerness in his voice, nor to see
                        the happy flush in her cheek as she called after him:
                    "To-morrow night!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THE TELEGRAM
                    BOBBY RIGBY and Graydon Bansemer were
                        bosom friends in Chicago; they had been classmates at Yale. It had been a
                        question of money with Bobby from the beginning. According to his own
                        admission, his money was a source of great annoyance to him. He was not out
                        of debt but once, and then, before he fully realised it. So unusual was the
                        condition, that he could not sleep; the first thing he did in the morning
                        was to borrow right and left for fear another attack of insomnia might
                        interfere with his training for the football eleven.
                    Robertson Ray Rigby, immortalised as Bobby, had gone in for athletics, where
                        he learned to think and act quickly. He was called one of the lightest, but
                        headiest quarterbacks in the East. No gridiron idol ever escaped his
                        "Jimmy," or "Toppy," or
                        "Pop," or "Johnny." When finally, he
                        hung out his shingle in Chicago: "Robertson R. Rigby,
                        Attorney-at-Law," he lost his identity even among his classmates.
                        It was weeks before the fact became generally known that it was Bobby who
                        waited for clients behind the deceptive shingle.
                    The indulgent aunt who had supplied him with funds in college was rich in
                        business blocks and apartment buildings; and now, Mr. Robertson R. Rigby was
                        her man of affairs. When he went in for business, the old  push of the football field did not desert him.
                        He was very much alive and very vigorous, and it did not take him long to
                        "learn the signals."
                    With his aunt's unfaltering prosperity, his own ready wit and
                        unbridled versatility, he was not long in establishing himself safely in his
                        profession and in society. Everybody liked him, though no one took him
                        seriously except when they came to transact business with him. Then, the
                        wittiness of the drawing-room turned into shrewdness as it crossed the
                        office threshold.
                    The day after the Cable dinner, Bobby yawned and stretched through his
                        morning mail. He had slept but little the night before, and all on account
                        of a certain, or rather, uncertain Miss Clegg. That petite and aggravating
                        young woman had been especially exasperating at the Cable dinner. Mr. Rigby,
                        superbly confident of his standing with her, encountered difficulties which
                        put him very much out of temper. For the first time, there was an apparent
                        rift in her constancy; never before had she shown such signs of fluctuating.
                        He could not understand itin fact, he dared not understand it. "She
                        was a most annoying young person," said Mr. Rigby to himself
                        wrathfully, more than once after he went to bed that night. Anyhow, he could
                        not see what there was about Howard Medford for any girl to countenance,
                        much less to admire. Mr. Medford certainly had ruined the Cable dinner-party
                        for Mr. Rigby, and he was full of resentment.
                    "Miss Keating!" called Mr. Rigby for the third time;
                        "may I interrupt your conversation with Mr.  Deever long enough to ask a question that has been on my mind
                        for twenty minutes?"
                    Mr. Deever was the raw, young gentleman who read law in the office of Judge
                        Smith, next door. Bobby maintained that if he read law at all, it was at
                        night, for he was too busy with other occupations during the day.
                    Miss Keating, startled, turned roundabout promptly.
                    "Yes, sir," at last, came from the pert, young woman near
                        the window.
                    "I guess I'll be going," said Mr. Deever
                        resentfully, rising slowly from the side of her desk on which he had been
                        lounging.
                    "Wait a minute, Eddie," protested Miss Keating;
                        "what's your hurry?" and then, she almost snapped
                        out: "What is it, Mr. Rigby?"
                    "I merely wanted to ask if you have sufficient time to let me
                        dictate a few, short letters that ought to go out to-day," said
                        Bobby, sarcastically; and then added with mock apology:
                        "Don't move, Mr. Deever; if you're not in Miss
                        Keating's way, you're certainly not in mine."
                    "A great josher!" that young woman was heard to comment,
                        admiringly.
                    "You may wake up some morning to find that I'm
                        not," said Bobby, soberly. Whereupon, Miss Keating rose and strode
                        to the other end of the room and took her place beside Bobby's
                        desk.
                    Bobby dictated half a dozen inconsequential lette-s before
                        coming to the one which troubled him most. For many minutes he stared
                        reflectively at the typewritten  message from
                        New York. Miss Keating frowned severely and tapped her little foot somewhat
                        impatiently on the floor; but Bobby would not be hurried. His reflections
                        were too serious. This letter from New York had come with a force sufficient
                        to drive out even the indignant thoughts concerning one Miss Clegg. For the
                        life of him, Bobby Rigby could not immediately frame a reply to the
                        startling missive. Eddie Deever stirred restlessly on the window ledge.
                    "Don't hurry, Eddie!" called Miss Keating,
                        distinctly and insinuatingly.
                    "Oh, I guess I'll be going!" he called back,
                        beginning to roll a cigarette. "I have some reading to do
                        to-day." Mr. Deever was tall, awkward and homely, and a lot of
                        other things that would have discouraged a less self-satisfied
                        "lady's man." Judge Smith said he was hopeless,
                        but that he might do better after he was twenty-one.
                    "What are you reading now, Eddie?" asked Miss Keating,
                        complacently eyeing Mr. Rigby. "Raffles?"
                    "Law, you idiot!" said Eddie, scornfully, going out of the
                        door.
                    "Oh! Well, the law is never in a hurry, don't you know?
                        It's like justicethe slowest thing in town!" she called
                        after him as his footsteps died away.
                    "Ready?" said Bobby, resolutely. "Take this,
                        please; and slowly and carefully he proceeded to dictate: 
                            
                                
                                    "Mr. DENIS HARBERT,
                                         "NEW YORK,
                                    
                                    "DEAR DENIS: I
                                        cannot tell you how much your letter surprised me. What you
                                        say seems preposterous. There must be a mistake. It cannot
                                        be this man. I know him quite well, and  seems as straight as a string and a gentleman,
                                        too. His son, you know as well as I. There isn't a
                                        better fellow in the world! Mr. B. has a fairly good
                                        business here; his transactions open and aboveboard.
                                        I'm sure I have never heard a word said against him
                                        or his methods. You are mistaken, that's all there
                                        is about it.
                                    "You might investigate a little further and,
                                        assuring yourself, do all in your power to check such
                                        stories as you relate. Of course, I'll do as you
                                        suggest; but I'm positive I can find nothing
                                        discreditable in his dealings here.
                                    "Keep me posted on everything.
                                    "As ever, yours,"
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Miss Keating's anxiety was aroused. After a very long silence, she
                        took the reins into her own hands. "Is Mr. Briggs in
                        trouble?" she asked at a venture. Mr. Briggs was the only client
                        she could think of, whose name began with a B.
                    "Briggs? What Briggs?" asked Bobby, relighting his pipe for
                        the fourth time.
                    "Why, our Mr. Briggs," answered Miss Keating, curtly.
                    "I'm sure I don't know, Miss Keating. Has he been
                        around lately?"
                    "I thought you were referring to him in that letter," she
                        said succinctly.
                    "Oh, dear me, no. Another party altogether, Miss Keating.
                        Isn't the typewriter in working order this morning?" he
                        asked, eyeing her machine innocently. She sniffed and started to reply, but
                        thought better of it. Then she began pounding the keys briskly.
                    "It works like a charm," she shot back, genially.
                    The letter that caused Bobby such perturbation came in the morning mail. His
                        friend had laid bare some of  the old stories
                        concerning James Bansemer, and cautioned him not to become involved in
                        transactions with the former New Yorker. Harbert's statements were
                        positive in character, and he seemed to know his case thoroughly well. While
                        the charges as they came to Rigby were general, Harbert had said that he was
                        quite ready to be specific.
                    All day long, the letter hung like a cloud over young Mr. Rigby. He was to
                        have lunched with Graydon, and was much relieved when young Bansemer
                        telephoned that he could not join him. Rigby found himself in a very
                        uncomfortable position. If the stories from New York were true, even though
                        he knew none of the inside facts, Graydon's father was pretty much
                        of a scalwag, to say the least. He was not well acquainted with the lawyer,
                        but he now recalled that he never had liked the man. Bansemer had impressed
                        him from the beginning as heartless, designing, utterly unlike his
                        clean-hearted son.
                    Bobby loved Graydon Bansemer in the way that one man loves a true friend. He
                        was certain that the son knew nothing of those shady transactionsif they
                        really existed as Harbert painted thembut an exposure of the father would be
                        a blow from which he could not recover.
                    It came at last to Rigby that he was not the only one in Chicago who held the
                        secret. Other members of the bar had been warned long before the news came
                        to him, and it was morally certain that if the facts were as bad as
                        intimated, the police also were in possession of them.
                    
                    At the same time, Rigby felt a certain moral responsibility involving
                        himself. Bansemer, at any time, might apply his methods to people who were
                        near and dear to him. The new intimacy with the Cables came to
                        Bobby's mind. And then, there were Clegg, Groll, the Semesons and
                        others who might easily fall into the snare if James Bansemer set it for
                        them.
                    Appreciating his responsibility in the matter, now that he was prepared to
                        hear the worst of James Bansemer, Rigby's heart stood almost still.
                        It meant that some day he might have to expose Graydon Bansemer's
                        father; it meant that he might have to cruelly hurt his friend; it meant
                        that he might lose a friendship that had been one of his best treasures
                        since the good, old college days. The mere fact that he would be compelled
                        to watch and mistrust James Bansemer seemed like darkest treachery to
                        Graydon, even though the son should not become aware of the situation.
                        Later, in the afternoon, Bobby went, guiltily, into a telegraph office and
                        sent away a carefully worded dispatch. The answer came to him at the club,
                        that evening, while he played billiards with young Bansemer, who, even then
                        was eager to be off to keep the promised appointment with pretty Miss Cable.
                    The telegram which he opened while Graydon impatiently chalked his cue and
                        waited for him to play was brief and convincing. It read:
                    
                        "Watch him, by all means. He is not safe, my word for it. There
                            is no mistake."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE PROPOSAL
                    THE little room off the library was Jane's
                        "den." Her father had a better name for it. He called it
                        her "web," but only in secret conference. Graydon Bansemer
                        lounged there in blissful contemplation of a roseate fate, all the more
                        enjoyable because his very ease was the counterpoise of doubt and
                        uncertainty. No word of love had passed between the mistress of the web and
                        her loyal victim; but eyes and blood had translated the mysterious,
                        voiceless language of the heart into the simplest of sentences. They loved
                        and they knew it.
                    After leaving Rigby at the club Graydon drove to the North Side, thrilled to
                        the marrow with the prophecies of the night. His heart was in that little
                        room off the libraryand had been there for months. It was the abode of his
                        thoughts. The stars out above the cold, glittering lake danced merrily for
                        him as he whirled up the Drive; the white carpet of February crinkled and
                        creaked with the chill of the air, but his heart was hot and safe and sure.
                        He knew that she knew what he was coming for that night. The first kiss!
                    Jane's face was warm, her eyes had the tender glow of joy expectant,
                        her voice was soft with the promise of coming surrender. Their hands met and
                        clasped as she stood to welcome him in the red, seductive dimness  of the little throne room. His tall frame
                        quivered; his lean, powerful, young face betrayed the hunger of his heart;
                        his voice turned husky. It was not as he had planned. Her beautyher mere
                        presenceswept him past the preliminary fears and doubts. His handclasp
                        tightened and his face drew resistlessly to hers. Then their hands went
                        suddenly cold.
                    "You know, don't you, Jane, darling?" he murmured.
                    "Yes," she answered after a moment, softly, securely. He
                        crushed her in his strong arms; all the world seemed to have closed in about
                        her. Her eyes, suffused with happiness, looked sweetly into his until she
                        closed them with the coming of the first kiss. "I love youoh, I
                        love you!" she whispered.
                    "I worship you, Jane!" he responded. "I have
                        always worshipped you!"
                    It was all so natural, so normal. The love that had been silent from the
                        first had spoken, that was allhad put into words its untold story.
                    "Jane, I am the proudest being in the world!" he said,
                        neither knew how long afterward, for neither thought of time. They were
                        sitting on the couch in the corner, their turbulent hearts at rest.
                        "To think, after all, that such a beautiful being as you can be
                        mine forever! It'swhy, it's inconceivable!"
                    "You were sure of me all the time, Graydon," she
                        remonstrated. "I tried to hide it, but I couldn't. You
                        must have thought me a perfect fool all these months."
                    "You are very much mistaken, if you please. You did hide it so successfully at times, that I was sick with
                        uncertainty."
                    
                    "Well, it's all over now," she smiled, and he
                        sighed with a great relief.
                    "All over but thethe wedding," he said.
                    "Oh, that's a long way off. Let's not worry over
                        that, Graydon."
                    "A long way off? Nonsense! I won't wait."
                    "Won't?"
                    "I should have said can't. Let's see; this is
                        February. March, dearest?"
                    "Graydon, you are so much younger than I thought. A girl simply
                        cannot be hurried through aan engagement. Next winter."
                    "Next what? That's nearly a year, Jane. It's
                        absurd! I'm ready."
                    "I know. It's mighty noble of you, too. But I just can't, dearest. No one ever does."
                    "Don'tdon't you think I'm prepared to
                        take care of you?" he said, straightening up a bit.
                    She looked at his strong figure and into his earnest eyes and laughed, so
                        adorably, that his resentment was only passing.
                    "I can't give you a home like this," he explained;
                        "but you know I'll give you the best I have all my
                        life."
                    "You can't help succeeding, Graydon," she said
                        earnestly. "Everyone says that of you. I'm not afraid.
                        I'm not thinking of that. It isn't the house I care for.
                        It's the home. You must let me choose the
                        day."
                    "I suppose it's customary," he said at last.
                        "June is the month for brides, let me remind you."
                    
                    "Before you came this evening I had decided on January next, but now
                        I am willing to"
                    "Oh, you decided before I came, eh?" laughingly.
                    "Certainly," she said unblushingly. "Just as you
                        had decided on the early spring. But, listen, dear, I am willing to say
                        September of this year."
                    "One, two, threeseven months. They seem like years, Jane. You won't say June?"
                    "Please, please let me have some of the perquisites," she
                        pleaded. "It hasn't seemed at all like a proposal.
                        I've really been cheated of that, you must remember, dear. Let me
                        say, at least, as they all do, that I'll give you an answer in
                        three days."
                    "Granted. I'll admit it wasn't the sort of
                        proposal one reads about in novels"
                    "But it was precisely as they are in real life, I'm sure.
                        No one has a stereotyped proposal any more. The men always take it for
                        granted and begin planning things before a girl can say no."
                    "Ah, I see it has happened to you," he said, jealous at
                        once.
                    "Well, isn't that the way men do nowadays?" she
                        demanded.
                    "A fellow has to feel reasonably sure, I dare say, before he takes a
                        chance. No one wants to be refused, you know," he admitted.
                        "Oh, by the way, I brought thiserthis ring up with me,
                        Jane."
                    "You darling!" she cried, as the ring slipped down over her
                        finger. And then, for the next hour, they planned and the future seemed a
                        thousand-fold brighter than the present, glorious as it was.
                    
                    "You can't help succeeding," she repeated,
                        "the same as your father has. Isn't he wonderful? Oh,
                        Graydon, I'm so proud of you!" she cried,
                        enthusiastically.
                    "I can never be the man that the governor is," said
                        Graydon, loyally. "I couldn't be as big as father if I
                        lived to be a hundred and twenty-six. He's the best ever!
                        He's done everything for me, Jane," the son went on,
                        warmly. "Why, he even left dear, old New York and came to Chicago
                        for my sake, dear. It's the place for a young man, he says; and he
                        gave up a great practice so that we might be here together. Of course, he could succeed anywhere. Wasn't it bully of him
                        to come to Chicago justjust for me?"
                    "Yes. Oh, if you'll only be as good-looking as he is when
                        you are fifty-five," she said, so plaintively that he laughed
                        aloud. "You'll probably be very fat and very bald by that
                        time."
                    "And very healthy, if that can make it seem more horrible to
                        you," he added. For some time he sat pondering while she stared
                        reflectively into the fire opposite. Then squaring his shoulders as if
                        preparing for a trying task, he announced firmly: "I suppose
                        I'd just as well see your father to-night, dearest. He likes me,
                        I'm sure, and II don't think he'll refuse to let
                        me have you. Do you?"
                    "My dad's just as fair as yours, Gray," she said
                        with a smile. "He's upstairs in his den. I'll go
                        to mother. I know she'll be happyoh, so happy."
                    Bansemer found David Cable in his room upstairshis smoking and thinking room,
                        as he called it.
                    "Come in, Graydon; don't stop to knock. How are  you? Cigarette? Take a cigar, then. Bad night
                        outside, isn't it?"
                    "Is it? I hadn'ternoticed," said Graydon, dropping
                        into a chair and nervously nipping the end from a cigar. "Have you
                        been downtown?"
                    "Yes. Just got in a few minutes ago. The road expects to do a lot of
                        work West this year, and I've been talking with the ways and means
                        gentlemena polite and parliamentary way to put it."
                    "I suppose we'll all be congratulating you after the annual
                        election, Mr. Cable."
                    "Oh, that's just talk, my boy. Winemann is the logical man
                        for president. But where is Jane?"
                    "She'sahdownstairs, I think," said the tall young
                        man, puffing vigorously. "I came uperto see you about Jane, Mr.
                        Cable. I have asked her to be my wife, sir."
                    For a full minute the keen eyes of the older man, sharpened by strife and
                        experience, looked straight into the earnest grey eyes of the young man who
                        now stood across the room with his hand on the mantlepiece. Cable's
                        cigar was held poised in his fingers, halfway to his lips. Graydon Bansemer
                        felt that the man aged a year in that brief moment.
                    "You know, Graydon, I love Jane myself," said Cable at
                        last, arising slowly. His voice shook.
                    "I know, Mr. Cable. She is everything to you. And yet I have come to
                        ask you to give her to me."
                    "It isn't that I have not suspectedaye, knownwhat the
                        outcome would be," said the other mechanically. "She will
                        marry, I know. It is right that she  should. It
                        is right that she should marry you, my boy. Youyou do love
                        her?" He asked the question almost fiercely.
                    "With all my soul, Mr. Cable. She loves me. I don't know
                        how to convince you that my whole life will be given to her happiness. I am
                        sure I can"
                    "I know. It's all right, my boy. Itit costs a good deal to
                        let her go, but I'd rather give her to you than to any man
                        I've ever known. I believe in you."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Cable," said Graydon Bansemer. Two strong
                        hands clasped each other and there was no mistaking the integrity of the
                        grasp.
                    "But this is a matter in which Jane's mother is far more
                        deeply concerned than I," added the older man. "She likes
                        you, my boyI know that to be true, but we must both abide by her wishes. If
                        she has not retired"
                    "Jane is with her, Mr. Cable. She knows by this time."
                    "She is coming." Mrs. Cable's light footsteps were
                        heard crossing the hall, and an instant later Bansemer was holding open the
                        den door for her to enter. He had a fleeting glimpse of Jane as that tall
                        young woman turned down the stairway.
                    Frances Cable's face was white and drawn, and her eyes were wet. Her
                        husband started forward as she extended her hand to him. He clasped them in
                        his own and looked down into her face with the deepest tenderness and
                        wistfulness in his own. Her body swayed suddenly and his expression changed
                        to one of surprise and alarm.
                    
                    "Don'tdon't mind, dear," he said
                        hoarsely. "It had to come. Sit down, do. There! Good Lord, Frances,
                        if you cry now I'llI'll go all to smash!" He sat
                        down abruptly on the arm of the big leather chair into which she had sunk
                        limply. Something seemed to choke him and his fingers went nervously to his
                        collar. Before them stood the straight, strong figure of the man who was to
                        have Jane forever.
                    Neither of themnor Janeknew what Frances Cable had suffered during the last
                        hour. She accidentally had heard the words which passed between the lovers
                        in the den downstairs. She was prepared when Jane came to her with the news
                        later on, but that preparation had cost her more than any of them ever could
                        know.
                    Lying back in a chair, after she had almost crept to her room, she stared
                        white-faced and frightened at the ceiling until it became peopled with her
                        wretched thoughts. All along she had seen what was coming. The end was
                        inevitable. Love as it grew for them had known no regard for her misery. She
                        could not have prevented its growth; she could not now frustrate its
                        culmination. And yet, as she sat there and stared into the past and the
                        future, she knew that it was left for her to drink of the cup which they
                        were fillingthe cup of their joy and of her bitterness.
                    Fear of exposure at the hand of Graydon Bansemer's father had kept
                        her purposely blind to the inevitable. Her woman's intuition long
                        since had convinced her that Graydon was not like his father. She knew him
                        to be honourable, noble, fair and worthy. Long and often had she wondered at
                        James Bansemer's design in permitting 
                        his son to go to the extreme point in relation with Jane. As she sat there
                        and suffered, it came to her that the man perhaps had a purpose after allan
                        unfathomable, selfish design which none could forestall. She knew him for
                        all that he was. In that knowledge she felt a slight, timid sense of power.
                        He stood for honour so far as his son was concerned. In fair play, she could
                        expose him if he sought to expose her.
                    But all conjectures, all fears, paled into insignificance with the one great
                        terror: what would James Bansemer do in the end? What would he do at the
                        last minute to prevent the marriage of his son and this probable child of
                        love? What was to be his tribute to the final scene in the drama?
                    She knew that he was tightening his obnoxious coils about her all the time.
                        Even now she could feel his hand upon her arm, could hear his sibilant
                        whisper, could see his intense eyes full of suggestion and threat. Now she
                        found herself face to face with the crisis of all these years. Her only hope
                        lay in the thought that neither could afford the scandal of an open
                        declaration. Bansemer was merciless and he was no fool.
                    Knowing Graydon to be the son of a scoundrel, she could, under ordinary
                        circumstances, have forbidden her daughter to marry him. In this instance
                        she could not say him nay. The venom of James Bansemer in that event would
                        have no measure of pity. In her heart, she prayed that death might come to
                        her aid in the destruction of James Bansemer.
                    It was not until she heard Graydon coming up the  stairs that the solution flashed into her brain. If Jane became the wife
                        of this cherished son, James Bansemer's power was gone! His lips
                        would be sealed forever. She laughed aloud in the frenzy of hope. She
                        laughed to think what a fool she would have been to forbid the marriage. The
                        marriage? Her salvation! Jane found her almost hysterical, trembling like a
                        leaf. She was obliged to confess that she had heard part of their
                        conversation below, in order to account for her manner. When Jane confided
                        to her that she had promised to marry Graydon in Septemberor Juneshe urged
                        her to avoid a long engagement. She could say no more than that.
                    Now she sat limp before the two men, a man smile straying from one to the
                        other, exhausted by her suppressed emotions. Suddenly, without a word, she
                        held out her hand to Graydon. In her deepest soul, she loved this manly,
                        strong-hearted young fellow. She knew, after all, he was worthy of the best
                        woman in the land.
                    "You know?" cried Graydon, clasping her hand, his eyes
                        glistening. "Jane has told you? And youyou think me
                        worthy?"
                    "Yes, Graydonyou are worthy." She looked long into his
                        eyes, searching for a trace of the malevolence that glowed in those of his
                        father. They were fair and honest and sweet, and she smiled to herself. She
                        wondered what his mother had been like.
                    "Then I may have her?" he cried. She looked up at her
                        husband and he nodded his head.
                    "Our little girl," he murmured. It all came back to  her like a flash. Her deception, her
                        imposition, her years of stealthand she shuddered. Her hand trembled and her
                        eyes grew wide with repugnance as they turned again upon Graydon Bansemer.
                        Both men drew back in amazement.
                    "Oh, noit cannot, cannot be!" she moaned, without taking
                        her eyes from Graydon's face. In the same instant she recovered
                        herself and craved his pardon. "I am distressedit is so hard to
                        give her up, Graydon," she panted, smiling again. The thought had
                        come suddenly to her that James Bansemer had a very strong purpose in
                        letting his son marry Jane Cable. She never had ceased to believe that
                        Bansemer knew the parents of the child she had adopted. It had dawned upon
                        her in the flash of that moment that the marriage might mean a great deal to
                        this calculating father. "David, won't youleave us for a
                        few minutes? There is something I want to say to Graydon."
                    David Cable hesitated for an instant and then slowly left the room, closing
                        the door behind him. He was strangely puzzled over that momentary exposition
                        of emotion on the part of his wife. He was a man of the world, and he knew
                        its vices from the dregs up, but it was many days before the startling
                        suspicion struck in to explain her uncalled-for display of feeling. It did
                        not strike in until after he noticed that James Bansemer was paying marked
                        attention to his wife.
                    Left alone with Graydon, Mrs. Cable nervously hurried to the point. She was
                        determined to satisfy herself that the son did not share her secret with his
                        father.
                    
                    "Does your father know that you want to marry Jane?" she
                        asked.
                    "Of courseerI mean, he suspects, Mrs. Cable. He has teased me not a
                        little, you know. I'm going to tell him to-night."
                    "He has not known Jane very long, you know."
                    "Long enough to admire her above all others. He has often told me
                        that she is the finest girl he's ever met. Oh, I'm sure
                        father will be pleased, Mrs. Cable."
                    "I met your father in New York, of courseyears ago. I presume he has
                        told you."
                    "I think not. Oh, yes, I believe he did tell me after we met you at
                        Hooley's that night. He had never seen Mr. Cable."
                    "Nor Jane, I dare say."
                    "Oh, no. I knew Jane long before dad ever laid eyes on
                        her." The look in his eyes satisfied her over all that he knew
                        nothing more.
                    "You love her enough to sacrifice anything on earth for
                        her?" she asked suddenly.
                    "Yes, Mrs. Cable," he answered simply.
                    "You would renounce all else in the world for her sake?"
                    "I believe that's part of the service," he said,
                        with a smile. "Jane is worth all of that, and more. She shall be
                        first in my heart, in my mind, for all time, if that is what you mean, Mrs.
                        Cable. Believe me, I mean that."
                    "Mr. Bansemer says that you are like your mother," she
                        mused, wistfully.
                    "That's why he loves me, he also says. I'm sorry
                             I'm not like father," he
                        said earnestly. "He's great!" She turned her face
                        away so that he might not see the look in her eyes. "I think Jane
                        is like" he paused in confusion. "Like her
                        father," he concluded. She arose abruptly and took his hand in
                        hers.
                    "Go to her, Graydon," she said. "Tell her that Mr.
                        Cable and I want you to be our son. Good-night and God bless you."
                        She preceded him to the stairway and again shook hands with him. David Cable
                        was ascending.
                    "Graydon," said the latter, pausing halfway up as the other
                        came down, "you were ready to congratulate me in advance on the
                        prospect of becoming president of the P., L. & A. Do you know that I
                        was once an ordinary fireman?"
                    "Certainly, Mr. Cable. The rise of David Cable is known to
                        everyone."
                    "That's all. I just wanted to be sure. Jane was not born
                        with a silver spoon, you know."
                    "And yet she is Jane Cable," said the young man proudly.
                        Then he hurried on down to the expectant, throbbing Jane.
                    Frances Cable sat at her escritoire for an hour, her brain working with
                        feverish energy. She was seeking out the right step to take in advance of
                        James Bansemer. Her husband sat alone in his den and smoked long after she
                        had taken her step and retired to rest but not to sleep. On her desk lay
                        half a dozen invitations, two of them from the exclusive set to whose inner
                        circles her amibitious, vigorous aspirations were forcing her. She pushed
                        them aside and with narrowed  eyes wrote to
                        James Bansemerwrote the note of the diplomat who seeks to forestall:
                        
                            
                                
                                    "DEAR MR.
                                            BANSEMER:
                                    
                                    Doubtless Graydon will have told you his good news before
                                        this reaches you, but Mr. Cable and I feel that we cannot
                                        permit the hour to pass without assuring you of our own
                                        happiness and of our complete approval. Will you dine with
                                        us this eveningen familleat seven-thirty?
                                    
                                        "FRANCES CABLE."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                   
                    David Cable read the note and sent it early the next morning by special
                        messenger to James Bansemer. The engagement of Jane Cable and Graydon
                        Bansemer was announced in the evening papers.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE FOUR INITIALS
                    THE offices of James Bansemer were two floors above those
                        of Robertson Ray Rigby in the U Building. The morning after Graydon
                        Banesemer's important visit to the home of the Cables, Eddie Deever
                        lounged into Rigby's presence. He seemed relieved to find that the
                        stenographer was ill and would not be down that day. The lanky youngster
                        studiously inspected the array of law books in the cases for some time,
                        occasionally casting a sly glance at Bobby. At last he ventured a remark
                        somewhat out of the ordinaryfor him:
                    "That old man up in Bansemer's office gets on my
                        nerves," said he, settling his long frame in a chair and breaking
                        in upon Rigby's attention so suddenly that the lawyer was startled
                        into a quick look of interest.
                    "Old Droom? What do you know about him?"
                    "Nothing in particular, of course. Only he sort of jars me when he
                        talks." Rigby saw that the young man had something on his mind.
                    "I did not know that you were personal friends," ventured
                        Rigby.
                    "Friends?" snorted Eddie. "Holy Mackerel! He
                        scares the life out of me. I know him in a business way, that's
                        all. He came down here three weeks ago and 
                        borrowed some books for Bansemer. I had to go up and get 'em
                        yesterday. I was smoking a cigarette. When I asked the old guy for the books
                        he said I'd go to hell if I smoked. I thought I'd be
                        funny, so I said back to him: 'I'll smoke if I go to hell,
                        so what's the diff?' It went all right with him, too. He
                        laughedyou ought to see him laugh!and told me to sit down while he looked up
                        the books. I was there half an hour and he talked all the time. By jing! He
                        makes your blood run cold. He up and said there was no such place as hell.
                        'Why not?' says I. 'Because,' says he,
                        'God, with all His infinite power, could not conceive of a space
                        huge enough to hold all the hypocrites and sinners.' Then he
                        grinned and said he had set aside in his will the sum of a hundred dollars
                        to build a church for the honest man. 'That will be a pretty small
                        church,' says I. 'It will be a small congregation, my
                        son,' says he. 'What few real honest men we have will
                        hesitate to attend for fear of being ostracised by society.'
                        'Gee whiz, Mr. Droom, that's pretty hard on
                        society,' says I, laughing. 'Oh, for that matter, I have
                        already delivered my eulogy on society,' says he. 'But it
                        ain't dead,' says I. 'Oh, yes; it's so
                        rotten it must surely be dead,' says he in the nastiest way I ever
                        heard. He's a fearful old man, Mr. Rigby. He made a mean remark
                        about that Mrs. David Cable."
                    "What did he say?" quickly demanded Bobby.
                    "He said he'd been reading in the papers about how she was
                        breaking into society. 'She's joined the Episcopal
                        church,' says he, sarcastic-like. 'Well, there's
                             nothing wrong in that,' says I.
                        'I know, but she attends,' says he, just as if she
                        shouldn't. 'She wouldn't attend if the women in
                        that church wore Salvation Army clothes and played tambourines, let me tell
                        you. None of 'em would. I knew her in New York years ago. She
                        wasn't fashionable then. Now she's so swell that
                        she'll soon be asking Cable to build a mansion at Rose Lawn
                        Cemetery, because all of the fashionables go there.' Pretty raw,
                        eh, Mr. Rigby?"
                    "Oh, he's an old blatherskite, Eddie. They talk that way
                        when they get old and grouchy. So he knew Mrs. Cable in New York, eh? What
                        else did he say about her?"
                    "Nothing much. Oh, yes, he did sayin that nasty way of histhat he
                        saw her on the street the other day chatting with one of the richest swells
                        in Chicago. He didn't say who he was except that he was the man who
                        once made his wife sit up all night in the day coach while he slept in the
                        only berth to be had on the train. Do you know who that could be?"
                    "I'm afraid Droom was romancing," said Bobby, with
                        a smile.
                    "Say, Mr. Rigby," said Eddie earnestly, "what sort
                        of business does Mr. Bansemer handle?" Rigby had difficulty in
                        controlling his expression. "I was wondering, because while I was
                        there yesterday a girl I know came out of the back room where she had been
                        talking to Bansemer. She's no good."
                    "Very likely she was consulting him about something," said
                        Rigby quietly.
                    "She soaked a friend of mine for a thousand when  she was singing in the chorus in one of the
                        theatres here."
                    "Do you know her well?"
                    "Ierdid see something of her at one time. Say, don't
                        mention it to Rosie, will you? She's not strong for chorus
                        girls," said Eddie anxiously. "A few days ago I saw a
                        woman come out of his office, heavily veiled. She was crying, because I
                        could hear the sobs. I don't go much on Bansemer, Mr. Rigby. Darn
                        him, he called me a pup one day when I took a message up for Judge
                        Smith."
                    "See here, Eddie," said Rigby, leaning forward suddenly,
                        "I've heard two or three queer things about Bansemer. I
                        want you to tell me all you hear from Droom and all that you see.
                        Don't you think you could cultivate Droom's acquaintance a
                        bit? Keep this very quietnot a word to anybody. It may mean something in the
                        end."
                    "Gee whiz!" murmured Eddie, his eyes wide with interest.
                        From that day on he and Bobby Rigby were allieseven conspirators.
                    Later in the day Rigby had a telephone message from Graydon Bansemer,
                        suggesting that they lunch together. All he would say over the wire was that
                        he would some day soon expect Rigby to perform a happy service for him.
                        Bobby understood and was troubled. He suspected that Graydon had asked Jane
                        Cable to marry him and that she had consented. He loved Graydon Bansemer,
                        but for the first time in their acquaintance he found himself wondering if
                        the son were not playing into the father's hands in this most
                        desirable  matrimonial venture. With a shudder
                        of repugnance he put the thought from him, loyal to that good friend and
                        comrade.
                    James Bansemer came into his office late that mornning. He had not seen
                        Graydon the night before, but at breakfast the young man announced his good
                        fortune and asked for his blessing. To the son's surprise, the
                        elder man did not at once express his approval. For a long time he sat
                        silent and preoccupied to all appearance, narrowly studying his
                        son's face until the young man was constrained to laugh in his
                        nervousness.
                    "You love heryou are very sure?" asked the father at last.
                    "Better than my life," cried Graydon warmly.
                    "She has good blood in her," said Bansemer, senior, slowly,
                        almost absently.
                    "I should say so. Her father is a wonderful man."
                    "Yes, I daresay," agreed the other without taking his eyes
                        from the son's face.
                    "But you don't say whether you approve or
                        disapprove," complained Graydon.
                    "Would it change matters if I disapproved?"
                    "Not in the least, father. I love her. I'd hate to
                        displease you in"
                    "Then, of course, I approve," said the other, with his
                        warmest smile. "Jane is a beauty andI am proud of her."
                    "She is too good for me," lamented Graydon happily.
                    "I can't very well contradict her future husband,"
                        said the lawyer. There was a hungry look in his eyes  as he glanced from time to time at the face of the boy who had
                        his mother's unforgettable eyes.
                    A messenger brought Mrs. Cable's note to Bansemer soon after his
                        arrival at the office. He and Elias Droom were in the back office when the
                        boy came. They had been discussing the contents of a letter that came in the
                        early mail. The lawyer accepted the note and dismissed the boy with the curt
                        remark that he would telephone an answer in person.
                    "It looks to me as though this is going to be a rather ticklish
                        affair," Droom resumed after the boy had closed the outer door
                        behind him. Bansemer's mind was on Mrs. Cable's note; a
                        queer smile hung on his lips.
                    "I'm rather touched by her astuteness," he said.
                    "She's cleverer than I thought. Oh," suddenly
                        remembering that it was not Mrs. Cable's letter they were
                        discussing, "you always see the dreary side of things,
                        Elias."
                    "I haven't forgotten New York," said the clerk
                        drily.
                    "Ah, but Chicago isn't New York, you know."
                    "Well, I was just reminding you. This man is going to fight back,
                        that is plain."
                    "That's what Mrs. Norwood promised to do, also, Elias. But
                        she was like a lamb in the end."
                    "I wouldn't be very proud of that affair, if I were
                        you."
                    "See here, Droom, you're getting a trifle too familiar of
                        late. I don't like it," said Bansemer sharply.
                    "I beg your pardon, Mr. Bansemer," said Droom, scraping his
                        foot across the floor and looking straight 
                        past his master's head. "It's for the good of the
                        cause, that's all. It wouldn't do, on Graydon's
                        account, for you to be driven from Chicago at this time. You see, he thinks
                        you are beyond reproach."
                    "Curse your impudence, Droom, I won't be spoken to in that
                        way," exclaimed Bansemer, white with sudden rage and loathing.
                    "Am I to expect my discharge, sir?" asked Droom, rubbing
                        his hands abjectly, but looking squarely into Bansemer's eyes for
                        the first time in their acquaintance. Bansemer glared back for an instant
                        and then shrugged his shoulders with a nervous laugh.
                    "We shan't quarrel, Elias," he said.
                        "Speaking of Graydon, he is to be married before long."
                    "I trust he is to do well, sir. Graydon is a fine boy."
                    "He is to marry David Cable's daughter."
                    "Indeed? I did not know that David Cable had a daughter."
                    "You know whom I meanJane Cable." He turned rather
                        restlessly, conscious that Droom's eyes were following him to the
                        window. He glanced again at Mrs. Cable's note and waited.
                    "I suppose you are pleased," said Droom, after a long
                        pause.
                    "Certainly. Jane is a splendid girl. She's beautiful,
                        accomplished andwell, she's thoroughbred," said bansemer
                        steadily, turning to face the old man.
                    "It is not necessary to remind you that she is a child of
                        love," said Droom. "That's the genteel way to put
                        it."
                    "It's not like you to be genteel, Elias. Still,"
                        and he  sat down and leaned forward eagerly,
                        "she has good blood from both sides."
                    "Yesthe so-called best."
                    "You speak as if you know the truth."
                    "I thinkyes, I'm sure I know. I have known for twenty
                        years, Mr. Bansemer. I had the same means as you of finding out whose child
                        she was."
                    "That's more than Mrs. Cable knows."
                    "She did not take the trouble to investigate. It's too late
                        now."
                    "I don't believe you really know the names of her father
                        and mother," said Bansemer shrewdly. "You are trying to
                        trick me into telling you what I do know."
                    "There are portraits of her ancestors hanging in Fifth
                        Avenue," said Droom promptly. "Here," and he
                        picked up a pencil, "I'll write the initials of the two
                        persons responsible for her existence. You do the same and we'll
                        see that they tally." He quickly scratched four letters on a pad of
                        paper. Bansemer hesitated and then slowly wrote the initials on the back of
                        an envelope. Without a word they exchanged the papers. After a moment they
                        both smiled in relief. Neither had been tricked. The initials were
                        identical.
                    "I imagine the ancestors hanging in Fifth Avenue would be amazed if
                        they knew the story of Jane," said Droom, with a chuckle.
                    "I doubt it, Droom. Ancestors have stories, too, and they hide
                        them."
                    "Well, she isn't the only girl who doesn't
                        know."
                    "I dare say. It isn't a wise world."
                    
                    "It's a lucky one. That's why it assumes to be
                        decent."
                    "You are quite a cynic, Elias."
                    "By the way, now that your son is to marry her, I'd like to
                        know just what your game is."
                    Bansemer turned on him like a tiger, his steely eyes blazing.
                    "Game? There is no game, damn you. Listen to me, Droom;
                        we'll settle this now. I'm a bad man, but I've
                        tried to be a good father. People have called me heartless. So be it. But I
                        love that boy of mine. What little heart I have belongs to him. There can be
                        no game where he is concerned. Some day, perhaps, he'll find out
                        the kind of a man I've been to others, but can always remember that
                        I was fair and honest with him. He'll despise my methods and
                        he'll spurn my money, but he'll have to
                        love me. Jane Cable is not the girl I would have chosen
                        for him, but she is good and true and he loves her."
                    For the first time in his life Elias Droom shrank beneath the eyes of his
                        master. He hated James Bansemer from the bottom of his wretched soul, but he
                        could not but feel, at this moment, a touch of admiration.
                    Through all the years of their association Elias Droom had hated Bansemer
                        because he was qualified to be the master, because he was successful and
                        forceful, because he had loved and been loved, because they had been
                        classmates but not equals. In the bitterness of his heart he had lain awake
                        on countless nights prayingbut not to his Godthat the time would  come when he could stand ascendant over this
                        steely master. Only his unswerving loyalty to a duty once assumed kept him
                        from crushing Bansemer with exposure years before. But Droom was not a
                        traitor. He remained standing, lifting his eyes after a brief, shifting
                        study of his bony hands.
                    "You have nothing to fear from me," he said. "Your
                        boy is the only being in the world that I care for. He hates me. Everybody
                        hates me. But it doesn't matter. I asked what your game was because
                        we know Jane's father and mother. That's all. Mrs. David
                        Cable, I presume, can be preyed upon with safety."
                    "Mrs. Cable has much to lose," significantly.
                    "And how much to pay?" with a meaning look.
                    "That is her affair, Droom."
                    "I wouldn't press her too hard," cautioned Droom.
                    "She's a woman."
                    "Never fear. I'm going there for dinner to-night.
                        It's a family affair. By the way, here's a letter from a
                        distinguished political leader. He suggests that I act on the city central
                        committee for the coming year. You've heard of him, I daresay. He
                        says it will mean a great deal to me here in Chicago."
                    "You are not going into politics?" scornfully.
                    "Elias, I'm pretty bad, but I'm not bad enough for
                        local politics."
                    They heard someone at the outer door at that moment, and Droom glided forth
                        from the inner room to greet the visitor. It was Eddie Deever.
                    "Say, Mr. Droom, do you suppose Mr. Bansemer would object if I sat
                        down here for a few minutes to  look over his
                        books on Famous Crimes in History? Old Smith hasn't got
                        'em."
                    "Go ahead," said Droom, taking his seat at the desk.
                    "You are a great reader, I perceive. A literary person like you
                        ought to live in Boston. Everybody reads in Boston."
                    "Boston?" sniffed Eddie, pulling a book from the shelf.
                        "They're still reading the Old Testament
                    there."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    AN EVENING WITH DROOM
                    SEVERAL weeks later Eddie Deever announced, quite
                        breathlessly, to Rigby that he was going over to visit Droom in his Wells
                        Street rooms. The two had found a joint affinity in Napoleon, although it
                        became necessary for the law student to sit up late at night, neglecting
                        other literature, in order to establish anything like an adequate
                        acquaintance with the lamented Corsican.
                    Rigby was now morally certain that James Bansemer was all that Harbert had
                        painted. To his surprise, however, the man was not openly suspected by other
                        members of the bar. He had been accepted as a man of power and ability.
                        Certainly he was too clever to expose himself and too wary to leave
                        peepholes for others engaged in that business. Rigby was debating the wisdom
                        of going to Bansemer with his accusations and the secret advice to leave the
                        city before anything happened that might throw shame upon Graydon. The
                        courage to do the thing alone was lacking.
                    Graydon was full of his happiness. He had asked Rigby to act as his
                        "best man" in September, and Bobby had promised. On
                        occasions when the two young men discussed the coming event with Jane and
                        Miss Clegg, Rigby's preoccupied air was strangely  in contrast with the animation of the others.
                        Graydon accused his liver and advised him to go to French Lick. Far from
                        that, the old quarterback was gradually preparing himself to go to James
                        Bansemer. To himself he was saying, as he put off the disagreeable task from
                        day to day: "He'll kick me out of the office and
                        that's all the reward I'll get for my pains. Graydon will
                        hate me in the end."
                    James Bansemer had proposed a trip to Europe as a wedding Journey, a present
                        from himself, but Graydon declined. He would not take an extensive leave of
                        absence from the office of Clegg, Groll & Davidson at this stage of
                        his career.
                    The morning after his visit to the abode of Elias Droom, Eddie Deever
                        strolled into the office of Bobby Rigby. He looked as though he had spent a
                        sleepless night. Mr. Rigby was out, but Miss Keating was "at
                        home." She was scathingly polite to her delinquent admirer.
                        Eddie's visits of late to the office had not been of a social
                        character. He devoted much of his time to low-toned conversations with
                        Rigby; few were the occasions when he lounged affably upon her typewriting
                        desk as of yore.
                    "You look as if you'd had a night of it," remarked
                        Rosie. Eddie yawned obligingly. "Don't sit on my desk.
                        Can't you see those letters?"
                    "Gee, you're getting touchy of late. I'll move the
                        letters."
                    "No, you won't," she objected. "Besides,
                        it doesn't look well. What if someone should come
                        insuddenly?"
                    
                    "Well, it wouldn't be the first time I got out suddenly,
                        would it?" He retained his seat on the desk.
                    "Say, where's Rigby?"
                    "You mean Mr. Rigby? He's out."
                    "Gee, you're also snippy. Well, give him my regards. So
                        long."
                    He was unwinding his long legs preparatory to a descent from his perch.
                    "Don't rush," she said quickly. He rewound his
                        legs and yawned. "Goodness, you're not affected with
                        insomnia, are you?"
                    "I've got it the worst way. I got awake at eight
                        o'clock this morning and I couldn't go to sleep again to
                        save my soul. It's an awful disease. Will Rigby be back
                        soon?"
                    "It won't matter. He's engaged," she
                        snapped, cracking away at her machine.
                    "I've heard there was some prospect. She's a fine
                        looker."
                    "Rubber-neck!"
                    "Say, Rosie, I'm going to ask a girl to go to the theatre
                        with me," said Eddie complacently.
                    "Indeed! Well, ask her. I don't care."
                    "To-morrow night. Will you go?"
                    "Who? Me?"
                    "Sure. II wouldn't take anybody else, you know."
                    "What theatre?" she asked with her rarest smile.
                    At that instant Rigby came in. Without a word Eddie popped up, a bit red in
                        the face, and followed the lawyer into the private room, closing the door
                        behind him. Rosie's ears went very pink and she pounded  the keys so viciously that the machine
                        trembled on the verge of collapse.
                    "Gee, Mr. Rigby, that old Droom's a holy terror. He kept me
                        there till after one o'clock. But I'm going back again
                        soon some night. He's got an awful joint. But that isn't
                        what I wanted to see you about. I ran across May Rosabel, that chorus girl I
                        was telling you about. Saw her downtown in a restaurant at one this morning.
                        She wanted to buy the drinks and said she had more money than a rabbit.
                        There was a gang with her. I got her to one side and she said an uncle had
                        just died and left her a fortune. She wouldn't say how much, but it
                        must have been quite a bunch. I know all of her uncles. She's got
                        three. They work out at Pullman, Mr. Rigby, and they couldn't leave
                        thrity cents between them if they all died at once."
                    After hearing this, Rigby decided to confront Bansemer at once. It did not
                        occur to him until later that the easiest and most effective way to drive
                        Bansemer from Chicago without scandal was through Elias Droom. When the
                        thought came to him, however, he rejoiced. The new plan was to sow the seeds
                        of apprehension with Droom; Bansemer would not be long in reaping their
                        harvestof dismay. Ten apparently innocent words from Eddie Deever would open
                        Droom's eyes to the dangers ahead.
                    Young Mr. Deever met with harsh disappointment when he came forth to renew
                        his conversation with Rosie Keating. She was chatting at the telephone, her
                        face wreathed in smiles.
                    "Thank you," she was saying, "it will be so nice.
                             I was afraid I had an engagement for
                        to-morrow night, but I haven't. Everybody says it's a
                        perfectly lovely play. I'm crazy to see it. What? About
                        seven-thirty. It takes nearly half an hour down on the Clark Street cable.
                        Slowest old thing ever. All right. Good-bye." Then she hung up the
                        receiver and turned upon Eddie, who stood aghast near the desk.
                        "Oh, I thought you'd gone."
                    "Say, what was that you were saying over the 'phone?
                        Didn't I ask you"
                    "I'm going to the theatre with Mr. Kempshall.
                        Why?"
                    "Why? Why, you know I asked you to"
                    "You didn't specify, Eddie, that's all
                        I'll go some other night with you. Good-bye."
                        Clackety-clack went the machine, throwing insult into his very face, as it
                        were. He tramped out of the office in high dudgeon.
                    "Confound this detective business, anyhow," he might have
                        been heard to remark. Three nights later, however, he took Rosie to the
                        play, and on the fourth night he was Droom's guest again in the
                        rooms across the river. He was well prepared to begin the campaign of
                        insinuation which was to affect Bansemer in the end. Sitting stiff and
                        uncomfortable in the dingy living-room overlooking Wells Street, he watched
                        with awe the master of the place at work on the finishing touches of a new
                        "invention," the uses of which he did not offer to
                        explain.
                    He was without a coat and his shirt sleeves were rolled far above the elbows,
                        displaying long, sinewy arms,  hairy and not
                        unlike those of the orang-outang Eddie had seen in Lincoln Park.
                    "I've got a new way of inflicting the death
                        penalty," the gaunt old man said, slipping into a heavy, quilted
                        dressing-gown. "These rascals don't mind hanging or the
                        penitentiary. But if they thought their bodies would be everlastingly
                        destroyed by quicklime, they'd hesitate before killing their
                        fellow-men."
                    "But they already bury them in quicklime in England," said
                        Eddie loftily.
                    "Yes, but not until after they're dead," said
                        Droom with a cackle. He grinned broadly at the sight of the youth's
                        horror-struck face. "Go ahead and smoke, my boy. I'll
                        light my pipe. Make yourself at home. I keep the window closed to keep out
                        the sound of those Wells Street cars. It's good of you to come over
                        here and cheer up an old man's evenings. I'mI'm
                        not used to it," he said with a wistful touch which was lost to
                        Eddie.
                    "You ought to have a wife and a lot of children, Mr.
                        Droom," said Eddie with characteristic thoughtlessness. Droom
                        stirred the fire and scowled. "Were you ever married?"
                    "No. I don't believe in marriage," said Droom
                        sullenly.
                    "Gee! Why not?"
                    "Why should I? It's the way I was brought up."
                    "You don't mean it!"
                    "Yes. My father was a Catholic priest."
                    "But, Great Scott, Catholics believe in marriage."
                    "They don't believe in their priests marrying."
                    
                    "Well, they don't marry, do
                        they?"
                    "No, they don't," answered Droom with a laugh that
                        sounded like a snarl. It took Eddie two days to comprehend. "I saw
                        the girl to-day that young Graydon Bansemer is to marryMiss Cable."
                    "Say, she's swell, isn't she?" said
                        Eddie. The old man slunk into his chair.
                    "She's very pretty. Mr. Graydon introduced me to
                        her."
                    "Gee!" was all Eddie could say.
                    "They were crossing Wells Street down below here on the way home
                        from a nickel-plater's in Indiana Street. I saw her years ago, but
                        she didn't remember me. I didn't expect it,
                        however."
                    "Ihow could she have forgotten you?"
                    "Oh, she'd have forgotten her mother at that age. She was
                        but three months old. I don't think she liked me to-day.
                        I'm not what you call a ladies' man," grinned
                        Elias, puffing at his pipe as he picked up the volumes on Napoleon. Eddie
                        laughed politely but uncomfortably.
                    "How old are you, Mr. Droom?"
                    "I'm as old as Methuselah."
                    "Aw, go 'way!"
                    "When he was a boy," laughed Elias, enjoying his quip
                        immensely. "Miss Cable seems to be very fond of Graydon. That will
                        last for a couple of years and then she'll probably be like
                        two-thirds of the rest of 'em. Other men will be paying attention
                        to her and she looking for admiration everywhere. You'd be
                        surprised to know how much of that is going on in Chicago.  Women can't seem to be satisfied with
                        one husband. They must have another one or twousually somebody
                        else's."
                    "You talk like a society man, Mr. Droom."
                    "Well, I've met a few society menprofessionally. And women,
                        too, for that matter. Look out for a sensational divorce case within the
                        next few weeks. It's bound to come unless things change. Terribly
                        nasty affair."
                    "Is Mr. Bansemer interested?" asked Eddie, holding tight to
                        his chair.
                    "Oh, no. We don't go in for that sort of thing."
                    "I wonder if Mr. Bansemer knows about the mistake that came near
                        happening to him a week or two ago. I got hold of it through a boy that
                        works in the United States Marshal's office," said Eddie,
                        cold as ice now that he was making the test. Droom turned upon him quickly.
                    "What mistake? What do you mean?"
                    "It would have been a rich joke on Mr. Bansemer. Seems that some
                        lawyer is likely to be charged with blackmail, and they got Mr.
                        Bansemer's name mixed up in it some way. Of course, nothing came of
                        it, butI just wondered if anybody had told him of the close call
                        he'd had."
                    Droom stared straight beyond the young liar and was silent for a full minute.
                        Then he deliberately opened the book on his knee and began to turn the
                        pages.
                    "That would have been a joke on Mr.
                        Bansemer," he said indifferently.
                    
                    "I don't think he would have enjoyed it, do you?"
                    "No one enjoys jokes from the United States Marshal's
                        office," said Droom grimly. "By the way, who is the lawyer
                        that really was wanted?"
                    "I never heard. I believe it was dropped. The young fellow I know
                        said he couldn't talk about it, so I didn't ask. Say, who
                        was that swell woman I saw coming out of your office to-day? I was up at Mr.
                        Hornbrook's."
                    Droom hesitated a moment. He seemed to be weighing everything he said.
                    "I suspect it was young Bansemer's future
                        mother-in-law," he said. "Mrs. David Cable was there this
                        afternoon about three."
                    "Gee," laughed Eddie. "Does she need a
                        lawyer?"
                    "Mr. Bansemer transacted business for her some time ago. A very
                        small matter, if I remember correctly. Here, listen to this. Now
                        here's a little incident I found this evening that interests me
                        immensely. It proves to my mind one of two points I hold in regard to
                        Marshal Ney. Listen," and he read at length from his book, a dry,
                        sepulchral monotone that grated on the ear until it became almost
                        unendurable.
                    The little clock on the mantelpiece clanged ten before they laid aside
                        Napoleon and began to talk about something that interested Eddie Deever far
                        more than all elseElias Droom himself and such of his experiences as he
                        cared to relate. The old man told stories about the dark sides of New York
                        life, tales of murder, thievery, rascality high and low, and he told them
                        with blood-curdling directness. The Walker wife-murder; the inside facts of
                        the De Pugh divorce scandal; the  Harvey
                        family's skeletonall food for the dime-novel producer. Eddie
                        revelled in these recitals even while he shuddered at the way in which the
                        old man gave them.
                    "Ah, this is a wicked old world," said Droom, refilling his
                        pipe and showing his teeth as he puffed. "That's why I
                        have those pictures of the Madonna on the wall to keep me from forgetting
                        that there are beautiful things in the world in spite of its ugliness and
                        hypocrisy. I haven't much"
                    He stopped short and listened intently. The sounds of footsteps on the stairs
                        outside came to his ears. They clumped upward, paused for a moment down the
                        little hall and then approached Droom's doorway. Host and guest
                        looked at the clock instinctively. Eddie heard Droom's breath as it
                        came faster between puffs at his pipe. Then there was a resounding rap at
                        the panel of the door. Eddie Deever never forgot the look that swept over
                        the old man's facethe look of wonder, dread, desperation. It passed
                        in an instant, and he arose unsteadily, undecidedly, to admit the late
                        caller. His long frame seemed to shake like a reed as he stood cautiously
                        inside the bolted door and called out:
                    "Who's there?"
                    "Messenger," was the muffled response. Droom hesitated a
                        moment, looking first at Eddie and then toward the window. Slowly he
                        unbolted the door. A small A. D. T. boy stood beyond.
                    "What is it?" almost gasped Elias Droom, drawing the boy
                        into the room.
                    "Mr. Droom? No answer, sir. Sign here." The  boy, snow-covered, drew a letter from his
                        pocket and handed it to Droom.
                    "Where from?" demanded the old clerk, the paper rattling in
                        his fingers.
                    "I don't know. I'm from Chicago Avenue,"
                        said the boy, with proper impudence. He took one look at Droom's
                        face as the man handed the slip back to him and then hurried downstairs, far
                        less impudent at heart than he had been.
                    Droom recognised the handwriting on the envelope as James
                        Bansemer's. It was the first time his employer had communicated
                        with him in this manner. He tore open the envelope and anxiously read the
                        brief missive.
                    "I've got to go to the office," he said, surprise
                        still lingering in his face. "It's important businessa
                        consultation witherwith an Eastern client."
                    "Gee, it's tough to turn out this kind of a night.
                        I'm going your way, Mr. Droom. Come on, I'll take the car
                        down with you."
                    "II won't be ready for some time."
                    "Oh, well, I'll say good-night, then."
                    Eddie Deever departed, chuckling to himself as he made his way to the
                        UBuilding, determined to learn what he could of this unusual summons.
                    But Droom was too crafty. Bansemer's letter had asked him to come to
                        Rector's restaurant and not to the UBuilding. The command was
                        imperative.
                    Bansemer had been spending the evening at the home of David Cable.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    JAMES BANSEMER CALLS
                    FOLLOWING close upon Mrs. Cable's visit to his
                        office in the afternoon, Bansemer presented himself at her home in the
                        evening, urbane, courtly, but characteristically aggressive. Her action in
                        bearding him in his den was not surprising, even though it might have been
                        considered unusual. He had been well aware for some time that she was sorely
                        uneasy and that it was only a question of time when she would make the
                        expected advances. Since the announcement of Jane's engagement
                        Bansemer had been punctiliously considerate; and yet, underneath his
                        faultless exterior, Mrs. Cable felt that she could recognise the deadly
                        poise of other intentions. She lived in fear that they would spring upon her
                        as if from the dark and that she would be powerless to combat them.
                        Something stronger than words or even intuition told her that James Bansemer
                        was not to be turned aside by sentiment.
                    Driven at last to the point where she felt that she must know his intentions,
                        she boldly ventured into his consultation room, a trembling but determined
                        creature whose flesh quivered with chill despite the furs that foiled the
                        wintry winds. Elias Droom passed her on into the private room with a polite
                        grin that set her teeth on edge.
                    
                    She left the building fifteen minutes later, nursing a wild but forlorn hope
                        that James Bansemer meant no evil, after all. Without hesitation she told
                        him plainly that she came to learn the precise nature of his attitude toward
                        herself and the girl. Bansemer's resentment appeared too real to
                        have been simulated. He was almost harsh in his response to the inference.
                        In the end, however, he was a little less than tender in his efforts to
                        convince her that she had cruelly misjudged him. She went away with a chill
                        in her heart dislodged, but not dissolved. When he asked if she and Mr.
                        Cable would be at home that night for a game of cards, she felt obliged to
                        urge him to come. It was not until she was in the carriage below that she
                        remembered that David Cable was to attend a big banquet at the Auditorium
                        that night, and that Jane would be at the theatre with friends.
                    Bansemer smiled serenely as he escorted her to the door. "We will
                        not permit anything to happen which might bring misery to the two beings so
                        dear to us," he assured her at parting.
                    Shortly after eight he entered the Cable home. He had gone to Chicago Avenue
                        beforehand to send a telegram East. From the corner of Clark Street, he
                        walked across town toward the lake, facing the bitter gale with poor grace.
                        In Washington Place he passed two men going from their cab into the Union
                        Club. He did not look at them nor did he see that they turned and stared
                        after him as he buffeted his way across Dearborn Avenue. One of the men was
                        Bobby Rigby; the other, Denis Harbert of New York.
                    
                    "It's the same Bansemer," said Harbert as they
                        entered the club. "I'd know him in a million."
                    At the Cables' a servant, on opening the door, announced that Mr.
                        Cable was not at home.
                    "Is Mrs. Cable at home?" asked Mr. Bansemer, making no
                        effort to find his cardcase.
                    "Yes, sir," responded the servant after a moment's
                        hesitation. Bansemer passed through the vestibule.
                    "Say Mr. Bansemer, if you please."
                    He removed his coat and was standing comfortably in front of the blazing logs
                        in the library when she came down.
                    "I thought the night was too dreadful for anyone to venture out
                        unless" she was saying as she gave him her hand.
                    "A night indoors and alone is a thousandfold more dreadful than one
                        outdoors in quest of good company," interrupted Bansemer. He drew
                        up chairs in front of the fireplace and stood by waiting for her to be
                        seated.
                    "I had forgotten that Mr. Cable was to attend a banquet at the
                        Auditorium," she explained nervously, confident, however, that he
                        felt she had not forgotten.
                    "To be sure," he said. "This is the night of the
                        banquet. I was not invited."
                    "I tried to telephone to ask you to come to-morrow night. The storm
                        has played havoc with the wires. It is impossible to get connection with
                        anyone." A servant appeared in the doorway.
                    "You are wanted at the telephone, Mrs. Cable. Shall I say you will
                        come?"
                    Flushing to the roots of her hair, the mistress of the  house excused herself and left the room. Bansemer leaned back
                        in his chair and smiled. She returned a few minutes later with a fluttering
                        apology.
                    "What a terrible night it must be for those poor linemen,"
                        she said. "I remember what it meant to be a railroad lineman in the
                        West years ago. The blizzards out there are a great deal more severe than
                        those we have here, Mr. Bansemer. Just think of the poor fellows who are
                        repairing the lines to-night. Doesn't it seem heartless?"
                    "It does, indeed. And yet, I daresay you've been scolding
                        them bitterly all evening. One seldom thinks it worth while to be merciful
                        when the telephone refuses to obey. It's only a true philanthropist
                        who can forgive the telephone. However, I am grateful to the blizzard and
                        happy. Fair weather would have deprived me of pleasure."
                    "I am sorry Mr. Cable is not at home," she said quickly.
                    "I doubt if I shall miss him greatly," said he.
                    "He expects to leave earlyhe isn't well," she
                        hastened to say. "Don't you want to smoke?"
                    "A cigarette, if you don't mind. By the way, where is my
                        future daughter-in-law? Surely I may see her to-night."
                    "She is at the theatrewith the Fernmores. Graydon is one of the
                        party. Didn't you know?" she asked suddenly.
                    "I do remember it now. He left the apartment quite early. Then I
                        have Fernmore to thank forwe are alone." He leaned forward in his
                        chair and flicked the  cigarette ashes into
                        the fire, his black eyes looking into hers with unmistakable intentness.
                    "You assured me to-day that you would be fair," she said
                        with strange calmness, meeting his gaze unflinchingly.
                    "I am fair. What more can you ask?" with a light laugh.
                    "Why did you say to-day that I had nothing to fear from
                        you?" she demanded.
                    "You have nothing to fear. Why should you fear me? For twenty years
                        your face has not been out of my memory. Why should I seek to hurt you,
                        then? Why should I not rejoice in the tie that binds our interestsour lives,
                        for that matter? Come, I ask if I am not fair?"
                    Her face became pale, her heart cold. She understood. The mask was off. He
                        veiled his threat in the simplest words possible; the purpose looked through
                        with greedy disdain for grace.
                    "I can offer no more than I offered to-day," she said.
                    "Do you suppose I would accept money in payment for my
                        son's peace of mind?" declared Bansemer, with finely
                        assumed scorn. "You offered me ten thousand dollars. You will never
                        know how that hurt me, coming from you. Money? What is money to me in an
                        affair like this? I care more for one tender touch of your fingers than all
                        the money in the world! Youand you alone, can mould every impulse in me. For
                        half my life I have been hated. No one has given me a grain of love. I must
                        have it. For years you have  not been out of
                        my mindI have not been out of yours."
                    "Stop!" she cried angrily. "You have no right to
                        say such things to me. You have been in my mind all these years, but oh, how
                        I have hated you!"
                    Like a flash, his manner changed. He had her in his power, and it was not in
                        his nature to permit his subjects to dictate to him. Craft and coercion
                        always had been his allies; craft could not win a woman's heart,
                        but coercion might crush it into submission. It was not like James Bansemer
                        to play a waiting game after it had been fairly started.
                    "Now listen to me," he said distinctly. "You
                        cannot afford to talk like that. You cannot afford to make an enemy of me. I
                        mean what I"
                    "What would you do?" she cried. "You have promised
                        that nothing shall happen to mar the lives of our children. You have given
                        me your pledge. Is it worthless? Is it"
                    "I wouldn't speak so loud if I were you," said he
                        slowly. "The walls have ears. You have much to lose if ears other
                        than those in the wall should hear what could be said. It would mean
                        disaster. I know, at least, that you do not love David Cable"
                    "What! II worship my husband," she cried, her eyes
                        flashing, her bosom heaving. "I love him better than anything else
                        in all the world. How dare you say that to me!"
                    "Control yourself," he cautioned calmly. "Permit
                        me to say you love the position he has given you. You love the pedestal on
                        which you stand so insecurely. You  would
                        rather hear his curse than to see the hand of social ostracism raised
                        against you. Wait! A word from me and not only David Cable, but the whole
                        world would turn against you."
                    "I have committed no crime," she flared back at him.
                    "I have deceived my husband, but I have not dishonoured him. Tell
                        the world everything, if you will."
                    "It would be a luscious tale," he said with an evil laugh.
                        "The world, which is wicked, might forget the fact that Jane is not
                        David's daughter; but David would not forget that she is
                        yours."
                    "What do you mean?" starting from her chair.
                    "I think you understand," he said deliberately.
                    "My God, she is not my child!" she cried
                        in horror.
                    "You know she isn't. You know the entire story.
                        You"
                    "I only know that you brought her to me and that I did you a
                        service. Don't ask me to be brutal and say more." She sank
                        back and glared at him like a helpless, wounded thing, the full force of his
                        threat rushing in upon her.
                    "Youyou couldn't do that," she whispered tremulously.
                    "I could, but I don't see why I should," he said,
                        leaning closer to her shrinking figure.
                    "You know it isn't true," faintly.
                    "I only know that I am trying to save you from calamity."
                    "Oh, what a beast you are!" she cried, springing to her
                        feet. "Go! I defy you! Do and say what you will. Only go!"
                    
                    He rose calmly, a satisfied smile on his face.
                    "I shall, of course, first of all, forbid my son to marry the young
                        woman. It will be necessary for me to explain the reason to Mr. Cable. I am
                        sorry to have distressed you. Really, I had expected quite a different
                        evening, after your invitation. You can't blame me for
                        misunderstanding your motive in asking me to come here when you expected to
                        be utterly alone." His laugh was a sneer.
                    "Poorpoor little Jane!" murmured the harassed woman,
                        clasping her hands over her eyes; then suddenly she cried out:
                        "What a devil you are to barter with your son's
                        happiness!"
                    "I'll not mince matters," he said harshly.
                        "You and I must understand each other. To be perfectly frank,
                        everything rests with you. Call me a beast if you like. As a beast I can
                        destroy you, and I will."
                    "You forget that I can go to my husband and tell him everything. He
                        will hate me, but he will believe me," she said, facing him once
                        more.
                    "The world will believe me," he scoffed.
                    "Not after I tell the world that you tried to blackmail methat you
                        have demanded fifty thousand dollars."
                    "But I haven't made such a demand."
                    "I can swear that you have," she cried
                        triumphantly. He glared at her for a moment, his past coming up from behind
                        with a rush that left him nothing to stand on.
                    "I am willing to run the risk of scandal, if you are, 
                        
                            "'AS A BEAST I CAN DESTROY YOU, AND I
                                WILL.'"
                        
                         my dear," he said after a moment,
                        his hands clenched behind him. "It will be very costly. You have
                        much to lose."
                    "I think," she said shrewdly, guessing his weakness even as
                        he saw it, "that we can talk sensibly of the situation from now on.
                        I am not afraid of you."
                    He looked at her steadily for a moment, reading her thoughts, seeing her
                        trembling heart. Then he said drily:
                    "I'll do nothing for a week, and then you'll send
                        for me."
                    The door in the vestibule opened suddenly and someoneaye, more than onecame
                        in from the outside. Mrs. Cable started to her feet and turned toward the
                        library door. Bansemer was standing close by her side. He turned to move
                        away as David Cable stepped to the door to look in. Cable's coat
                        collar was about his ears and he was removing his gloves. For a moment he
                        stood motionless, gazing upon the occupants of the room.
                    Then, for the first time, there flashed before him the sharp point of steel
                        which was to pierce his brain later on with deadly suspicion and doubt.
                        There was no mistaking the confusion of Mrs. Cable and her visitor. It was
                        manifest that they had not expected him to appear so unexpectedly. He
                        remembered now that on two other occasions he had found Bansemer at his
                        house, and alone with Mrs. Cable, but he had not regarded it as
                        extraordinary. But there was a startled look in her eyes to-night, an
                        indecision in her greeting that caused him to knit his brows and lift his
                        hand unconsciously  to his temple before
                        speaking. He heard Bansemer say that he was just going, but that he would
                        stay for a short chat about the banquet. Mrs. Cable turned to stir the fire
                        with the poker, an unusual act on her part he was not slow to observe. The
                        seed was sown.
                    "I brought Bobby over from the club with meand a friend,
                        Frances," he said, after asking Bansemer to sit down for a while.
                        His keen eyes noted that her hand shook as she put the poker back into its
                        place. As he walked into the hall to throw aside his coat, Frances Cable
                        turned to Bansemer with a significant look, shaking her head in mute appeal
                        for silence.
                    Bobby Rigby came into the room, followed by a tall stranger, whom he
                        presented to Mrs. Cable. Bansemer, standing near the library table, caught a
                        glimpse of the stranger's face as he took Mrs. Cable's
                        hand. He started violently, unable at first to believe his eyes. A chill ran
                        through his frame and his expression changed from wonder to consternation.
                    "Mr. Bansemer, my friend, Mr. Harbert."
                    "I have met Mr. Bansemer," said Harbert, with a cold stare
                        straight into the other's eyes. They were on opposite sides of the
                        table.
                    "In New York," said Bansemer firmly, his eyes unflinching
                        in their return. He noticed that Harbert's look was
                        uncompromisingly antagonistic, but that was to be expected. It troubled him,
                        however, to see something like unfriendliness in Rigby's greeting.
                    Harbert was the man who had fought him to rout in New York. This keen,
                        aggressive young barrister  had driven him
                        into a corner from which he escaped only by merest chance. He knew James
                        Bansemer for what he was. It had not been his fault that the man crawled
                        through a small avenue of technicalities and avoided the punishment that had
                        seemed so certain. He had waged war bitterly against the blackmailer, and he
                        missed complete victory by a hair's breadth.
                    Feeling the strain of the situation, Rigby talked with earnest volubility. He
                        led the conversation into many linesthe war in the Philippines, the banquet,
                        the play which Jane and Graydon were seeing. The thought of the play brought
                        a shade of despair to his browpretty Miss Clegg was in the party with that
                        "mucher" Medford.
                    James Bansemer had been cold with speculation every instant of the time; had
                        felt that Harbert's condemning gaze had never left him. Apparently
                        listening to the others, he found himself wondering what Harbert's
                        trip to Chicago signified. Gradually it dawned upon him that his old-time
                        foe was not through with his fighting. The look in Rigby's eyes
                        meant something, after alland Rigby was Graydon's best friend!
                        Harbert was in Chicago to actand to act first! This thought shot into the
                        man's brain like burning metal. It set every nerve afire. His
                        nemesis had already begun his work. Before he left the Cable home that night
                        he would be asking his host and hostess what they knew of one James
                        Bansemer's past.
                    As Bansemer arose to say good-night to the others, Harbert's eyes
                        met his with deadly directness.
                    "Where are your offices, Mr. Bansemer?" asked the  New Yorker. There was something significant
                        in the question.
                    "Mr. Rigby and I have offices in the same building," he
                        replied. "Will you come in and see me?"
                    "I shall try," said the other.
                    To have saved his life, Bansemer could not meet David Cable's
                        questioning eyes as he shook hands with him. Cable's hands were
                        like ice.
                    Outside the house, in the whirling gale, the tall lawyer breathed easier, but
                        not securely. His brain was clogged with doubts, fears, propheciesall
                        whirling like mad around the ominous figure of Denis Harbert.
                    Suddenly, he stopped stockstill, the bitter scowl deepening in his eyes. With
                        an oath he turned abruptly and hurried in the opposite direction. The time
                        had come to make ready for battle. A few minutes later, he was writing the
                        note which created so much commotion in the home of Elias Droom.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    JANE SEES WITH NEW EYES
                    IT was not until the hurrying Bansemer entered the door of
                        Rector's that the apprehension of having committed a senseless
                        blunder came to him.
                    "Good heavens!" he muttered, stopping short. "What
                        a fool I'm getting to bemeeting old Elias, in a place like this!
                        The theatre crowdseverybody in town will be here by eleven! Curse me, for a
                        hopeless ass! I must get him away at once!"
                    Grumbling at himself, he passed into the restaurant. Gabe offered him the
                        choice of various tables; he selected one which commanded a view of the
                        entrances and ordered a perfunctory "Scotch." Nervous and
                        anxious, he was more troubled than he cared to admit even to himself.
                        Fortunately, there were not many people in the caf; and his gaze, wandering
                        about the place, soon halted before the small alcove in the east end
                        containing a table with wine glasses, in waiting, set for a large party. The
                        clock, back of the cigarstand, said it was five minutes after eleven.
                        Bansemer impatiently watched the two doors leading to the street, and was
                        beginning to wonder whether the message had reached the old clerk, when
                        presently, the uncouth shape of Droom, appeared slinking through the
                        socalled ladies' entrance, with the shrinking attitude of  one unaccustomed to fashionable restaurants
                        and doubtful of his reception. Bansemer motioned to him.
                    "Just as soon as I can get my check," he was saying, at the
                        same time, beckoning to a waiter; "we'll move out of this.
                        It will be crowded inI never thought, a stall at Chapin &
                        Gore's will be better. Here, waiter! My check! I'm in a
                        hurry!the devil!"
                    As the exclamation burst from his lips, there came down the narrow steps and
                        through a door quickly thrown open by a waiter, a number of gay, fashionably
                        dressed people, all smiling and trembling with the cold. Immediately, this
                        party attracted the attention of the room. Waiters rushed hither and thither
                        relieving the ladies of their costly lace and fur wraps, and the men of
                        their heavy overcoats. Of the expected theatre-comers, these were the first
                        to arrive; but presently others followed, and soon the quiet caf of the
                        early evening became transformed into one of bustle and excitement by the
                        eager, animated throng. With dismay Bansemer noticed that those to whom his
                        attention had been attracted were blocking his way to the doors; escape was
                        out of the question. Reluctantly, he returned to his seat and ordered the
                        clerk to take the one opposite him. Then, scanning the party making its
                        passage to the alcove, he perceived three or four men whom he knew, and
                        presently, to his surprise and consternationhis son. The recognition was
                        mutual, Graydon making his way around a small table in order to
                        affectionately greet him. As he approached, his eyes fastened themselves on
                        his father's companion. With amazement, he recognised the queer
                        figure of the  lanky, gangling Droom; but too
                        kind-hearted and well-bred to allow his features in the slightest degree to
                        express the astonishment which he felt at sight of such a comic incongruity,
                        the young man voiced a few kindly words to the old man, while from the table
                        in the alcove, where the smart, little supper party were seating themselves,
                        Miss Cable was smiling her cheery recognition to her prospective
                        father-in-law; then Graydon made his way back to his seat by her side.
                    "Why did you come here?" asked Droom, feeling somewhat akin
                        to the proverbial fish out of water.
                    "Because I thoughtI thought you couldn't find any other
                        place," replied Bansemer, confusedly.
                    The unexpected arrival of his son and party had disturbed his usual coolness;
                        but with his order for supper his equilibrium returned, and he went on to
                        explain:
                    "I supposed you knew only two streets in town Wells and South
                        Water."
                    "Humph! I know every street in town," Droom resented,
                        drawing himself up in his chair; and then bluntly: "What's
                        happened?"
                    "Not so loud! Harbert's here, but"
                    "Oho! Here?"
                    "In Chicago, yeswe'll talk about it later."
                    The present genial environment and convivial atmosphere were producing a most
                        inspiriting effect on the lawyer. The delightful consciousness that the
                        people with whom his son was supping were of the smartest set in town for
                        the moment had banished all fears of exposure. From time to time he glanced
                        proudly  across to the alcove table where the
                        men were engaged in unfolding their napkins and toying with their glasses,
                        in lively anticipation of the enjoyment to come; while the women, with the
                        hope of eliciting admiration for their hands and the sparkle of their rings,
                        were taking off their gloves and spreading out their fingers on the table
                        cloth.
                    "Graydon seems to be right in the swim, eh, Droom?" he
                        said. The irony of it all appealed strongly to his sense of humour.
                        "I don't suppose you know those swells?" he
                        added, patronisingly. Droom was listening intently to the bursts of
                        merriment which were enlivening the restaurant. Like a small boy at a circus
                        who fears that something will happen that he will not see, he was
                        continually turning his head and letting his eyes travel critically over the
                        company at the neighbouring table.
                    At this speech of Bansemer's the eyes of the old clerk returned;
                        they expressed no little resentment at the inference.
                    "Certainly, I do;" and leaning over the table and covertly
                        indicating with his long, bony finger the man at the head of the table, he
                        answered succinctly: "That's
                        Fernmorehe's"
                    A particularly loud burst of laughter cut him short. At the adjoining tables
                        conversation had abruptly ceased; heads were turned and inquisitive eyes
                        were fastened on the brilliant coterie at the alcove table.
                    Few men in Chicago were better known or better liked than the stout, florid
                        complexioned, jovial-looking Billy Fernmore, the host of this entertainment.
                        His  social adventures and the headlong
                        follies in which his fun-loving proclivities invariably enmeshed him were
                        only surpassed by his fondness for ridding himself of his unlimited wealth.
                    To his inherited five millions marriage had added the colossal fortune of a
                        beautiful heiress, whose extravagances aggregated less than his own solely
                        through the limitations of her sex. Yet, were it not for the self-imposed
                        handicap of adhering strictly to the somewhat old-fashioned precept that
                        jewels should be acquired only through affectionate beneficence, Mrs.
                        Fernmore might have succeeded in surpassing the princely prodigalities of
                        her lord and master.
                    "It was this way," Billy was saying, in his own inimitable
                        manner, and awake to the realisation of having a "good
                        one" to tell; "a few days ago the lady of my house took
                        wings for New Yorka little spree of her own, you understand. And, for Billy
                        Fernmore, I kept out of mischief, for a time, fairly well. After waiting
                        days, lamb-like, for her return, restlessness;" and here
                        Fernmore's shameless affectation of the neglected husband became so
                        irresistibly funny that it provoked prolonged laughter from his listeners,
                        even Droom showing his yellow snags and stretching his mouth to the fullest
                        extent of the law, as he joined in the general chorus;
                        "restlessness gave way to recklessness, and in desperation I
                        invited a half dozen of the oldest and most distinguished widowers in town
                        to dine with me, at the hotel, where they were informed they were to be
                        honoured by the presence of a bevy of the season's prettiest
                        dbutantes. My stars, but  they were a fine
                        collection of old innocents!" Fernmore threw himself back in his
                        chair and roared at the recollection.
                    "Billy's a wonder when he's wound up!"
                        Medford's whispered aside to the lady on his right met with a
                        simple nod of the head; for despite Miss Clegg's wellfeigned
                        interest in Mr. Medford when Rigby was present, on other occasions there was
                        no pretence of enjoyment of his society.
                    "Among those presentto use the correct phrase," said Billy,
                        after having refreshed himself with sufficient champagne to proceed;
                        "were two retired merchants, a venerable logician, a doddering
                        banker, and a half-blind college professor. Of course, I had to make some
                        excuse for Mrs. Fernmore's absence. For the life of me I cannot now
                        remember what yarn I told them; but they were too anxious to be presented to
                        the gay, young women not to swallow itwhole. The old boys fairly swamped the
                        girls with their senile attentions. It was a lively supper partymy word! And
                        they went home unanimously declaring that the dbutantes of the present day
                        discounted, at least in dash and go, the charmers of fifty years
                        ago."
                    Amidst the confusion of peals of merriment which greeted the genial
                        raconteur, Miss Cable, to whom the story did not especially appeal,
                        whispered in awed tones:
                    "Graydon, who on earth is that queer, spectacular looking man with
                        your father?"
                    "Oh, that's Droomisn't he a character?
                        He's been with the governor since I was a child. In those days  his looks used to frighten me almost to
                        death. I fancy he's had a sad life, don't you
                        know."
                    "There is something positively awful in his face," returned
                        the girl, as her eyes faltered and dropped to her plate on unexpectedly
                        meeting those of the subject of her remark.
                    "Sh-h!" came from Medford; and then: "Come,
                        Billywhat's the pointor the moral, as they say in novels?"
                    "Fernmore is a rattling good chap, at heart," Graydon was
                        saying to Jane; "but I can't stand that Med"
                    "Yes, yes, go on, Mr. Fernmore," broke in several voices in
                        eager expectancy.
                    "The moral?" Billy's eyes were twinkling.
                        "The joke, rather, is on me. When Mrs. Fernmore reached home I
                        thought it wise to say nothing about the affair; but I had completely
                        underestimated the persistency of these rejuvenated venerables. They were
                        not satisfied wanted to know more about the girls; and the next day in deep
                        but joyous simplicity, half a dozen old men asked their married daughters
                        and close friends at the clubs what family of Brown a certain dbutante
                        belonged to; who was the father of Miss Jones; and how long had the family
                        of Miss Robinson lived in the city, together with a lot of amazing
                        questions. And failing to derive even the remotest satisfaction from the
                        Social Register, the women members of their families besieged my innocent
                        wife with more or less shocked inquiries as to an entertainment of mine at
                        which their aged relations were present. Well, the game was up!  I owned upconfessed to the girls being
                        actresses and begged for mercy."
                    "And I forgave him," supplemented Mrs. Fernmore, smilingly.
                        "Boys will be boys."
                    "Whew!" whistled Billy, in conclusion. "It was no
                        end of a lark! I would not have missed it for the world; but the old chaps
                        will never, never forgive me."
                    As the gentleman finished, Bansemer was looking at Droom with amusement. The
                        old clerk was shaking his head in a manner that signified disapproval.
                    "How's that for doings in swagger society, eh, Droom? If
                        anyone but Billy Fernmore had done that, he would have been ostracised
                        forever. Nothing like millions"
                    "I don't believe true aristocrats would do that,"
                        interrupted Droom, half angrily.
                    "These are the aristocratsmoney aristocrats; the others have lost
                        the nameforgotten. Come, let's go over yonderwe can talk
                        there."
                    Bansemer called for the bill and settled it; then slowly rising,
                        ostentatiously waved his adieus to the alcove and deserted the scene for
                        Chapin & Gore's. Droom meekly followed his employer.
                    For some time, neither spoke. In their stall, each was busy with his own
                        thoughts and speculations.
                    "I think I've made a mess of it with Mrs. Cable,"
                        began Bansemer. "She"
                    "I wouldn't mention names," cautioned Droom, with
                        a look at the top of the partition.
                    "She's very likely to fight back, after all."
                    "What was your demand?"
                    
                    "Money," said Bansemer, quietly.
                    "Humph!" was Droom's way of saying he lied.
                    "Harbert has a purpose in coming here, Elias. We must prepare for
                        him."
                    "We are as well prepared as we can expect to be. I guess it means
                        that we'll have to get out of Chicago."
                    "Curse him!" snarled Bansemer. "I don't
                        care a rap about myself; but it will be all up with Graydon if
                        anythingerunpleasant should happen to me," said Bansemer, with a
                        wistful glance at his glass. Then, in subdued tones, he told of the meeting
                        with Harbert. Droom agreed that the situation looked unpleasant, and all the
                        more so in view of what Eddie Deever had mentioned in connection with the
                        Marshal's office. He repeated the story as it had come from the
                        babbling, youngster's lips, utterly deceived by the guileless
                        emissary from the office downstairs.
                    "What do you expect to do?" he asked, studying the tense
                        face of his employer.
                    "I'm going to stand my ground," said Bansemer,
                        steadily drumming on the table with his stiff fingers. "They
                        can't prove anything, and the man who makes a charge against me
                        will have to substantiate it. I'll not run a step."
                    "Then," said Droom, coarsely, "you must let Mrs.
                        Cable alone. She is your danger signal. I tell you, Mr. Bansemer,
                        she'll fight if you drive her into a corner. She's not a
                        true aristocrat. She comes of a class that doesn't give
                        up."
                    "Bah! She's like the rest. If Harbert doesn't get
                        in his nasty work, she'll give in like all the others."
                    
                    "I thought you said you'd do nothing to mar the happiness
                        of Graydon," sneered Droom.
                    "I don't intend to, you old fool. This affair is between
                        Mrs. Cable and me. If she wins, I'll give up. But, understand me,
                        I'm perfectly capable of knowing just when I'm
                        beaten."
                    "I only know your financial valour," said Elias drily.
                    "That's all you're expected to know,
                        sir."
                    "Then, we won't quarrel about it," said the other
                        with his sweetest grin.
                    "Umph! Well, pleasantries aside, we must look ourselves over
                        carefully before we see our New York friend. He must not find us with
                        unclean linen. Elias, I'm worried, I'll confess, but
                        I'm not afraid. Is there anything that we have bungled?"
                    "I have always been afraid of the chorus-girl business. I
                        don't like chorus girls." Bansemer, at another time, would
                        have smiled.
                    It was past midnight when the two left the stall and started in separate ways
                        for their North Side homes. The master felt more secure than when he left
                        the home of David Cable earlier in the night. Elias Droom said at parting:
                    "I don't like your attitude toward Mrs. C. It's
                        not very manly to make war on a woman."
                    "My good Elias," said Bansemer, complacently surveying
                        himself in the small mirror across the stall, "all men make war on
                        women, one way or another."
                    He did not see Droom's ugly scowl as he preceded that worthy through
                        the doorway.
                    The next morning Bansemer walked down the Drive.  It was a bright, crisp day and the snow had been swept from the
                        sidewalks. He felt that a visit from Harbert during the day was not unlikely
                        and he wanted to be fresh and clear-headed. Halfway down he met Jane Cable
                        coming from the home of a friend. He never had seen her looking so
                        beautiful, so full of the joy of living. Her friendly, sparkling smile sent
                        a momentary pang of shame into his calloused heart, but it passed with the
                        buoyant justification of his decision to do nothing in the end that might
                        mar his son's happiness.
                    She was walking to town and assured him that she rejoiced in his
                        distinguished company. They discussed the play and the supper party.
                    "Now that I'm engaged to Graydon, I'm positively
                        beginning to grow sick of people," Miss Cable declared and as they
                        all declare at that age and stage.
                    "Well, you'll soon recover," he smiled.
                        "Marriage is the convalescence of a love affair, you
                        know."
                    "Oh, but most of the men one meets are so hopelessly
                        sillytiresome," she went on. "It's strange, too.
                        Nearly all of them have gone to collegeYale, or Harvard."
                    "My dear Jane, they are the unfortunate sons of the rich. You
                        can't blame them. All Yale and Harvard men are not tiresome. You
                        should not forget that a large sprinkling of the young men you meet at the
                        pink teas were sent to Yale or Harvard for the sole purpose of becoming Yale
                        and Harvard mennothing more. Their mothers never expected them to be
                        anything else. The poor man sends his son to be educated;  the rich man usually does it to get the boy
                        away from home, so that he won't have to look at him all the time.
                        I'm happy to say that I was quite poor when Graydon got his
                        diploma."
                    "Oh, Graydon isn't at all like the others. He is a
                        man," cried Jane, her eyes dancing.
                    "I don't mean to say that all rich men's sons are
                        failures. Some of them are really worth while. Give credit unlimited to the
                        rich man's son who goes to college and succeeds in life in spite of
                        his environment. I must not forget that Graydon's chief ambition at
                        one time was to hunt Indians."
                    "He couldn't have got that from his mother," said
                        she accusingly. Bansemer looked at her sharply. He had half expected, on
                        meeting her, to observe the first sign that the Cable family had discussed
                        him well but not favourably. Her very brightness convinced him that she, at
                        least, had not been taken into the consultation.
                    "I am afraid it came from his horrid father. But Graydon is a good
                        boy. He couldn't long follow the impulses of his father. I dare say
                        he could be a sinner if he tried, too. I hate an imbecile. An imbecile to my
                        mind is the fellow without the capacity to err intentionally. God takes care
                        of the fellow who errs ignorantly. Give me the fellow who is bright enough
                        to do the bad things which might admit him to purgatory in good standing,
                        and I'll trust him to do the good things that will let him into
                        heaven. I often wonder where these chaps go after they dieI mean the Yale
                        and Harvard chaps who bore you. I takes a clever chap to have any standing
                        at all in purgatory.  Where do they go, Jane?
                        You are wise for your years and sex. There surely must be a place for the
                        plain asses?"
                    "Oh," said she, "I suppose they have a separate
                        heaven, just as the dogs have."
                    "No doubt you're right," he agreed, smiling,
                        "but think how bright the dogs are as a rule."
                    "Bobby Rigby says a dog is worth more than his master. People will
                        steal a dog, he says."
                    "I saw him at your house last night. Did you meet Mr.
                        Harbert?"
                    "No. Mother said he came in with Bobby."
                    "How is Mrs. Cable this morning? I think sheer complained of a sick
                        headache last night?"
                    "She has such a frightful headache that she couldn't get up
                        this morning."
                    "Indeed? Will you carry my respects and sympathy to her?"
                    "Thank you, yes. But why don't you come in and see us, Mr.
                        Bansemer?"
                    "In a day or so, gladly."
                    Bansemer was not approached by Harbert that day nor the nextnor any other day
                        soon, in fact. It was not until after the third day had expired that he
                        heard from Mrs. Cable. Her silence was gratifying and significant; it meant
                        that she was struggling with herself that she had taken no one as yet into
                        her confidence. He was too wary to feel secure in his position, however. He
                        abandoned every case that could not be tried in the cleanest light and he
                        destroyed his footprints in those of the past more completely than ever.  David Cable was disposed to be agreeable when
                        they met, and Rigby's manner had lost the touch of aloofness.
                        Altogether the situation did not look so dark as it had on the night of the
                        blizzard.
                    He guessed at Mrs. Cable's frame of mind during the three days just
                        past by the tenor of her message over the telephone. She did no more than to
                        ask him to drop in before five for a cup of tea; but he saw beyond the depth
                        of her invitation.
                    He went and had a few minutes alone with her because he was shrewd enough to
                        drop in before five. No one else came until after that hour had struck. He
                        was studiously reserved and considerate. There was nothing in his manner to
                        indicate that he was there as anything more than the most casual sipper of
                        the beverage that society brews. It was left for her to make the advances.
                    "We must come to an understanding," she said abruptly.
                        "I cannot endure the suspense, the uncertainty"
                    Bansemer raised his brows with grave condescension.
                    "Then you have not confessed to Mr. Cable?" he asked, with
                        perfect unconcern. "Do you know, I was rather hoping that you would
                        have saved me the trouble of doing so."
                    "It means so much to"
                    "Ah, I see you find it hard to lose the ground you
                        -ave gained socially." He stirred his tea
                        steadily.
                    "It isn't thatI don't care for that. It's
                        for Jane and David. I can only offer to buy your silence; nothing
                        more," she said with hurried words. "I own  shares in the railroad; they're
                        worth twenty thousand dollars. Will you take them?"
                    "My dear," he said, leaning quite close to her, "I
                        am not seeking to blackmail you as you seem to imagine. I have only tried to
                        tell you that I love you."
                    "Oh," she exclaimed, with a shudder of disgust. His face
                        was quite close to hers; she could feel his warm breath on her cheek and she
                        drew away quickly. His hand hovered close to hers as it lay in her lap.
                    There was an eye-witness to this single picture in the brief scene. Jane had
                        started downstairs. From the upper steps she could look into the
                        drawing-room below. She could not help seeing Bansemer's fervent
                        attitude; she heard nothing that he said. The girl paused in surprise; a
                        feeling as of dreadshe could not explaincrept over her. A chill struck into
                        her heart.
                    It was as if she had awakened from a sweet sleep to look out upon a bleak,
                        horrid morning.
                    Involuntarily she shrank back, quite beyond the actual vision but not free
                        from it. She stood straight and tense and silent at the top of the stairs,
                        her hand clasping the rail. She could hear her heart throbs plainly. There
                        was no mistaking the picture as it had burst upon her unsuspecting eyes.
                        With a quavering smile she tried to throw it from her. But cold and damning
                        there arose to support her apprehensions the horrid stories of Mrs.
                        Blanckton and her affair with Rellick. With her own eyes she had seen
                        Rellick talking to Mrs. Blanckton just as Bansemer was talking to her mother
                        in the dim doom below. The Blanckton scandal, as everyone knew, was one of
                        the most infamous the city  had known. Jane,
                        with other girls, had been shocked by the boldness of the intrigue; she had
                        loathed Rellick for his unprincipled love-making; she had despised and
                        denounced Mrs. Blanckton. Here now was her own mother listening just as Mrs.
                        Blanckton had listened; here was James Bansemer talking just as Rellick had
                        talked. A great fear, a dark uncertainty, welled up in her heart.
                    It was not until the butler admitted other callers that she found the courage
                        to turn her eyes toward the drawing-room. She was never to forget the dread
                        that grew with the thought of what she might have seen had she remained a
                        voluntary witness during the minutes which followed her first look below.
                        That single vision effected a sharp, complete change in Jane
                        Cable's life. From that moment she never saw the world as it had
                        appeared to her before.
                    Although she succeeded in hiding the fact, it was difficult to approach and
                        greet James Bansemer with the naturalness of the unsuspecting. His manner
                        was beyond reproach, and yet, for the first time, she saw the real light in
                        his black eyes. She talked to him as if nothing had happened to make her
                        distrustful, but no self-control in the world could have checked the growth
                        of that remorseless thing called suspicion. For her own sake, for her
                        mother's, for Graydon's, she tried to put it down.
                        Instead, it grew greater and stronger as she looked into his eyes, for in
                        them she saw the light that heretofore had escaped her notice.
                    And this was the father of the man whom she was to marry, the one whom she
                        loved with all her heart  and soul! This, the
                        man who would degrade her own mother! Her mothershe looked at her with a new
                        question in her eyes. She looked for the thing which had marked Mrs.
                        Blanckton. It was not there, and she rejoiced in that discovery. Her mother
                        did not possess the bold, daring, defiant air of the other woman. Hers was
                        tender, sweet, even subdued; the girl clutched hopefully at this sign and
                        began to build upon it.
                    Half a dozen people came and went. James Bansemer was the last to leave. He
                        met the girl's tense, inquiring look from time to time, but he
                        could not have felt its meaning. There was nothing in her voice which might
                        have warned him, although it sounded strained and without warmth on her own
                        ears. In spite of herself she wondered how he would act in saying good-bye
                        to her mother. Although she tried with all the might of her will to look
                        away, she could not take her eyes from the pair as Bansemer arose to depart.
                    His manner was most circumspect. The handclasp was brief, even formal and
                        there was no look in his eyes to indicate the presence of anything but the
                        most casual emotions. After his departure, Mrs. Cable turned to Jane and
                        complained of a frightful headache and went to her room to lie down for a
                        while before dinner. Jane's gaze followed her steadily as she
                        ascended the stairs. Then she walked to the window and looked out upon the
                        street, a hundred perplexities in her mind.
                    Her father was standing in the middle of the sidewalk, looking down the
                        darkening street. His cab was turning the corner below, showing that he had
                        been standing  there for longer than a minute.
                        She watched him with interest. What had happened in the street to hold his
                        interest so closely? It was Jane who opened the door and let him in. As she
                        kissed his cold cheek she noticed the frown on his brow and caught the
                        strange gleam in his eyes. His greeting was less warm than usual, and he
                        went to his room upstairs without removing his hat or coat below. But not
                        before he sent a quick, keen glance about the drawing-room to find if James
                        Bansemer had been the single visitor of the afternoon.
                    "Where is your mother?" he asked from the stairs, without
                        looking back.
                    "She has just gone to her room," Jane replied, a chill
                        shooting through her veins. Some strange, unnatural impulse compelled her to
                        add, as if the explanation were just and necessary: "We have had a
                        lot of people in drinking tea, and mother has a headache."
                    She watched him ascend the steps and turn into his smoking-room. The door
                        closed sharply and a wave of inexplicable relief rushed over her. Her hands
                        were cold. She went to the fireplace and held them out to the blaze. Her
                        ears were alert for sounds from above alert with a strange fear which choked
                        her with its persistence. She dreaded the opening of her father's
                        door and his footsteps as they crossed to her mother's room. She
                        waited for these sounds, minute after minute, but they did not come. The
                        fire would not give warmth to her hands; the chill seemed to spread. In her
                        new consciousness she felt that a tragedy was just begun.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE CANKER
                    CABLE saw Bansemer leave the house as he drove up to the
                        curb in front. The lawyer did not look back, but turned the nearest corner
                        as if eager to disappear from sight as quickly as possible.
                    Closing the door of his smoking-room behind him, David Cable dropped wearily
                        into a chair without removing his hat or coat. His blood was running cold
                        through his veins, his jaw was set and his eyes had the appearance of one
                        who has been dazed by a blow. For many minutes he sat and stared at the
                        andirons in the ember-lit grate. From time to time he swallowed painfully
                        and his jaw twitched. Things began growing black and green before his eyes;
                        he started up with an oath.
                    He was consumed by the fires of jealousy and suspicion. The doubt that had
                        found lodging in his mind so recently now became a cruel certainty. Into his
                        grim heart sprang the rage of the man who finds himself deceived, despised,
                        dishonoured. He was seeing with his own eyes, no doubt, just what others had
                        seen for monthshad seen and had pitied or scorned him as the unfortunate
                        dupe. With the thought of it he actually ground his teeth; tears of rage and
                        mortification sprang to his eyes. He recalled his own feelings  in instances where shame had fallen upon
                        other men; he recalled his own easy indifference and the temptation to laugh
                        at the plight of the poor devils. It had never entered his mind that some
                        day he might be the object of like consideration in others more or less
                        fortunate, according to their friends.
                    By the time dinner was announced he had succeeded in restoring himself to a
                        state of comparative calmness. He did not dress for dinner, as was his
                        custom, nor did he stop to ask Frances Cable if she were ready to go down.
                        He heard Jane playing the piano as he descended. She nodded to him, but did
                        not stop and he paused near the fireplace to look at her strangely.
                        Somewhere back in his brain there was struggling, unknown to him, the
                        old-time thought that this child bore him no likeness whatsoever. He only
                        knew he was crushing down the fear that evil or slander or pain might come
                        to her, if he were rash yet just. He was wondering if he could face his wife
                        without betraying himself.
                    Jane played softly, lifelessly. She, on the other hand, was wondering what
                        Graydon would think or say, if she spoke to him of what she had seen. She
                        wondered if he would blame her mother as she was beginning to blame his
                        father.
                    "Mother won't be down to dinner," she finally
                        said.
                    "Is she ill?" he asked after a moment.
                    "She is lying down. Margaret will take some tea up to her."
                    Father and daughter had but little to say to each other during the meal.
                        Their efforts at conversation  were
                        perfunctory, commonplace, an unusual state of affairs of which neither took
                        notice.
                    "You look tired, father. Has it been a hard day?"
                    "A rather trying one, Jane. We're having some trouble with
                        the blizzards out West. Tying up everything that we are rushing to the
                        Philippines."
                    "Is it settled that you are to be made president?"
                    "It looks like it." There followed a long silence.
                        "By the way, I have good news for you. Mr. Clegg told me to-day
                        that they are going to take Graydon into the firm. Isn't it great?
                        Really, it is quite remarkable. You are not the only person, it seems, who
                        thinks a lot of that boy."
                    "A partner? Really? Oh, isn't it glorious? I knew he couldI
                        told him he'd be a partner before long." She waited a
                        moment and then added: "His father was here to-day for a cup of
                        tea." Cable caught the slightly altered tone and looked up. She was
                        trifling with her fork, palpably preoccupied.
                    "I'mI'm sorry I missed him," said he,
                        watching her closely.
                    "You like him very much, don't you, father?"
                    "Certainlyand I'm sure your mother does." The fork
                        shook in her fingers and then dropped upon the plate. She looked up in
                        confusion. Cable's eyes were bent upon her intently and she had
                        never seen so queer a light in them. Scarcely more than the fraction of a
                        second passed before he lowered his gaze, but the mysterious telegraphy of
                        the mind had shot the message of comprehension from one to the other. He saw
                        with horror that the girl at least suspected the true  situation. A moment later he arose abruptly and announced that
                        he would run up to see her mother before settling down to some important
                        work in his den.
                    "Graydon is coming over to-night," she said.
                        "We'll be very quiet and try not to disturb you.
                        Don't work too hard, daddy dear."
                    Upstairs Frances Cable was battling with herself in supreme despair.
                        Confession was on her lips a dozen times, but courage failed her. When she
                        heard his footsteps in the hallway she was ready to cry out the truth to him
                        and end the suspense. As he opened the door to enter, the spirit of fairness
                        turned frail and fled before the appeal of procrastination. Wait! Wait!
                        Wait! cried the powerful weakness in her heart, and it conquered. She could
                        not tell him then. To-morrowthe next day, yes, but not then. It was too much
                        to demand of herself, after all.
                    He came in, but left a few minutes later. She was strangely unresponsive to
                        his tender inquiries. Her thoughts were of another, was his quick conclusion
                        as he fled from her presence before the harsh accusations could break from
                        his eyes.
                    In his den once more, with the door closed, he gave himself up completely to
                        black thoughts. He recalled his words to her, uttered years ago, half in
                        jest and half in earnest; he had horrified her beyond expression by telling
                        her how he would punish a wife if he were the husband she deceived. With a
                        grim, lurid smile he remembered the penalty. He had said he would not kill;
                        he would disfigure the woman frightfully and permit her to live as a moral
                        example to other wives.  Slitting her mouth
                        from ear to ear or cutting off her nosethese were two of the penalties he
                        would inflict. He now felt less brutal. He might kill, but he would not
                        disfigure. For an hour he sat and wondered what had been the feelings of his
                        old friend George Driscoll just before he deliberately slew his faithless
                        wife. He remembered saying to other friends at the time that Driscoll had
                        "done right."
                    This night of black shadowshe did not sleep at all was really the beginning
                        of the end. He forgot the presidency that was to be handed out to him; he
                        forgot everything but the horrid canker that gnawed into his heart and
                        brain.
                    Day and night he writhed in silent agony, a prey to the savage jealousy that
                        grew and grew until it absorbed all other emotions. Scandal, divorce,
                        dishonour, murder swept before the mind of this man who had been of the
                        people and who could not condone. The people kill.
                    For a week he waited and watched and suffered. What he knew of men told him
                        that they do not devote themselves to the wives of others with honourable
                        motives behind them. He convinced himself that he knew the world; he had
                        seen so- much of it. The man aged years in that single week of jealousy and
                        suspense. His face went haggard, his eyes took on a strange gleam, his
                        manner was that of a man in grave trouble.
                    Day after day this piteous, frenzied man who swayed thousands with his hand
                        stooped to deal with the smallest movements of one man and one woman.
                        Despite his most intense desire to drive himself into other and  higher channels, he found himself skulking
                        and spying and conniving with but one low end in view.
                    He employed every acute sense in the effort to justify his suspicions. Time
                        and again he went home at unusual hours, fearing all the while that he might
                        incur the pain of finding Bansemer there. He even visited the man in his
                        office, always rejoicing in the fact that he found him there at the time. He
                        watched the mail in the morning; he planned to go out of nights and then
                        hurried home deliberately but unexpectedly. Through it all he said no word
                        to Frances Cable or Jane. He asked no questions, but he was being beaten
                        down by apprehensions all the while.
                    His wife's manner convinced him that all was not well with her. She
                        avoided being alone with him, keeping close to her room; he detected a
                        hundred pretexts by which she managed to escape his simplest advances.
                    At last, overwrought by the strain, he began to resort to cunningthis man who
                        was big enough to have gone from the engine cab to the president's
                        office. It required hours of struggle with his fairer, nobler nature to
                        bring himself low enough to do trickery, but the natal influence mastered.
                        He despised himself for the trick, but he would know the
                        truth.
                    
                    The late afternoon mail one day brought to Mrs. Cable a brief letter,
                        typewritten both inside and out. David Cable saw her open and read the
                        missive and he saw her trembling hand go to her throat and then to her
                        temple. Her back was towards him. He could not see her face until she
                        turned, a full minute later. Then it was calm and undisturbed, but her eyes
                        were  brilliant. He ground his teeth and tore
                        upstairs without a word. David Cable had stopped low enough to write this
                        letter and he was paying for it.
                    He knew the contents far better than she knew them. The letter purported to
                        be an urgent appeal from James Bansemer, asking her to meet him at eight
                        o'clock that night. It said: "I must see you to-night.
                        Leave your home at 8:00 o'clock for a short call on Mrs. W, just
                        around the corner. I will meet you across the Drive, near the sea wall. It
                        is quite dark there. J."
                    David Cable did not know that earlier in the afternoon James Bansemer had
                        called her up by 'phone to say that he intended to speak to his son
                        the following day, unless word came to him from her; nor, could he have
                        possibly known that she was now determined to tell the whole story to her
                        husband and to trust to his mercy. He only knew that he had written the
                        letter and that he had told her of his intention to go downtown immediately
                        after dinner.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE TRAGEDY AT THE SEA WALL
                    THE dark, muffled figure of a man leaned against a section
                        of the old wall that edged the lakethe figure of a man who prayed with all
                        his soul that his vigil might be in vain. If she came, all was over.
                    He was not armed. He had thrown his revolver away a week before. His only
                        desire now was to learn the extent of her duplicity. If she obeyed the call
                        of the letter then there could be no doubt that she was coming at the call
                        of the lover. His hands twitched and he shivered as if with a dreadful
                        chill. His heart was shouting a warning to her, but his head was urging her
                        to come and have done with it all.
                    He was there earlylong before the hour named in the decoy. His eyes never
                        left the sidewalk that ran past his own home, but a short distance from the
                        Drive. They stared without blinking across that dark border, through the
                        circle of light from the are lamp and far into the shadows of blackness
                        beyond. It was very dark where he stood. The lake had battered through the
                        sea wall for many rods at this particular point and no one ventured out
                        beyond the bridle path for fear of slipping down into the cavities that had
                        been washed out by the waves. His station was on the edge of the piles of
                        stone and cement that had been tossed up to await the pleasure of the park
                        commissioners.
                    
                    For a while, he tried to take Jane's future into consideration, but
                        it was impossible to substitute anything before his own wrongs. David Cable
                        was not the kind of man who would go on living with a faithless wife for the
                        sake of appearances. He was not an apologist. Time and circumstance and the
                        power of true love would adjust the affair of Jane and Graydon Bansemer.
                        This was his affair. Time could not adjust it for him.
                    At last he saw a woman's figure hurrying down the street. The wild,
                        eager hope that the light from the electric lamp would prove it to be other
                        than that of his wife was quickly dispelled. His worst fears were true, His
                        Franceshis wife of more than a score of years, his pretty sweetheart through
                        all those days, was false to him! As he fell back against the wall something
                        seemed to snap in his breast; a groan of misery arose to his lips.
                    With eyes which saw red with rage and anguish, he watched the hesitating
                        approach of the woman. She stopped at the corner and looked up and down the
                        Drive, peering intently into the dark shadows by the lake. The sky was
                        overcast; no stars peeped through its blackness. With uncertain, halting
                        steps she crossed the boulevard, still glancing about as if in search of
                        someone. He moved forward unconsciously, almost blindly, and she caught a
                        glimpse of his tall, dark figure. He was not unlike Bansemer in height and
                        carriage. As she drew near, his legs trembled and tears of despair flooded
                        his eyes.
                    A savage desire to grasp her by the throat and hurl her into the waters
                        beyond the break came over him  with
                        irresistible power. Then came the pitiable collapse which conquered the
                        murderous impulses and left him weak and broken for the moment. With a sob
                        he turned and leaned upon the wall, his back to her, his face buried in his
                        tense armscrushed, despised, dishonoured! Kill her? The horror of it swept
                        his brain clear for an instant. Kill his pretty Frances? Kill
                        Jane's mother? How could he think of it?
                    It was a long time before the wretched man knew that she was standing close
                        behind him and was speaking to him. The sound of her voice came through the
                        noise of his pounding heart as if it were far away and gentle. But what was
                        it that she was saying? Her voice was angry, suppressed, condemning.
                    "You may take it or refuse it, just as you please," were
                        the first words his turbulent senses distinguished. "I can pay no
                        more than that for your silence. The other is impossible. I will not discuss
                        it again with you." She paused as if waiting for him to respond.
                    "To-night I shall tell my husband everythingthe whole story. I
                        cannot endure the suspense any longer. I will not live in fear of you
                        another hour. My only reason for coming out here to-night is to plead with
                        you to spare your son and Jane. I am not asking anything for myself. It
                        would break Jane's heart if Graydon should refuse to marry her. You
                        must have a heart somewhere in that" But the words became jumbled
                        in the ears of her listener. From time to time his mind grasped such
                        sentences as these, paralysing in their bitterness: "I have the
                        letters of adoption. ... David will not believe what you say... He  loves me and he loves Jane... I am willing to
                        pay all that I have to keep it from Graydon and Jane... But I intend to tell
                        my husband. I will not deceive him any longer... He will understand even
                        though he should hate me for it. He will love Jane although she is not his
                        own child."
                    David Cable seemed frozen to the spot. His brain was clearing; he was
                        grasping the full importance of every sentence that rushed from her
                        impassioned lips. The last appalling words fell like the blow of a club in
                        the hands of a powerful man. He was dazed, stunned, senseless. It seemed to
                        him that his breath had ceased to come and that his whole body had turned to
                        stone. His wide staring eyes saw nothing ahead of him.
                    "Well, what have you to say?" she was demanding.
                        "Why have you asked me to come out here? You have my final answer.
                        What have you to say? Are you going to tell Graydon that Jane is not our
                        child? I must know."
                    "Not our child?" came from the palsied lips of David Cable,
                        so low and lifeless that the sound was lost in the swish of the water below.
                        The intermittent red signal in the lighthouse far out in the lake blinked
                        back at him, but to him it was a steady, vivid glare.
                    "Do you hear me? I have lied to my husband for the last
                        time!" There was almost a tone of victory in the voice, now.
                        "Do you hear me? You don't dare! David will not believe
                        youhe will believe my"
                    A terrible oath choked back the hopeful words in the woman's throat.
                        Murder had come back into the man's heart.
                    
                    "You lie!"
                    "David!"
                    "Yes, it's David! Liar! Whose child is she? Tell
                        me?"
                    "David! David! For God's sake, hear me! There was no wrong,
                        I swear it!"
                    "She's not my child and there's no
                        wrong!" The sardonic laugh that followed was that of a raging
                        maniac. "You've fooled me, you fiend! You devil!"
                    At that word and with one look at her husband's terribly distorted
                        features, Frances Cable shrank back with a single terrified cry, turned from
                        him and fled madly for her life. With the spring of the wild beast, Cable
                        rushed after her, cursing her with every breath. In a few yards he had
                        almost reached her, his hands outstretched to grasp her neck. But, at that
                        instant, the frightened woman's strength suddenly gave way; her
                        knees received the fall of the limp body. For a second she seemed huddled in
                        a posture of prayer, then toppled over, slipped easily forward through a
                        fissure in the wall and plunged headforemost into the chugging waters below.
                    In the lives even of the best of men there are moments when the human
                        instincts are annihilated and supplanted by those of the beast. Likewise,
                        have there been instances in which the bravest have been tried in the
                        furnace and found wanting, while conversely, the supposedly cowards have
                        proved to be heroes. Therefore, since no two situations can occur at a
                        different time and yet have precisely similar conditions, it behooves  us to forbear judging, lest we be judged, and
                        to approach the following incident in this man's career as if we
                        ourselves dwelt under a covering of glass.
                    From the time of his marriage up to this moment no man could have fought
                        better the bitter struggle of life than David Cable; yet, now, in this
                        hourhis hour of travail and temptation, he piteously succumbed. Cowardice,
                        the most despicable of all emotions, held him in her grasp.
                    He sank exhausted against the wall, his eyes fixed upon the black hole
                        through which his wife had disappeared; then, the stony glare changed
                        suddenly to a look of realisationhorrible, stupefying. He crept to the edge
                        and peered intently into the water, not six feet below, his eyes starting
                        from his head.
                    Black, sobbing water, darkness impenetrable! The instinctive fear of
                        apprehension caused him to look in every direction for possible
                        eye-witnesses. Every drop of blood in his body seemed turned to ice with
                        horror. Down there in that black, chill water lay the body of his wife, the
                        woman he had loved through all these trying years, and he her murderer!
                    Terrified, trembling, panting, he tried to force himself into the water with
                        the vague hope of saving her, after all; but even as he looked wildly about
                        for help, a shout ready to spring from his dry throat, the natural dread of
                        the accused facing his accuser took possession of him. Fear, abject fear,
                        held him in grasp; he could not shout.
                    A man was running across the drive towards hima long loping figure that
                        covered the ground rapidly.  With a last
                        horrified look in the water, David Cable, craven for the moment, turned and
                        fled through the night along the broken sea wallfled aimlessly, his eyes
                        unseeing, his feet possessed of wings. He knew not whither he ran, only that
                        he was an assassin fleeing from the horrors behind.
                    Over the narrow strip of ground sped the long, eager figure that had darted
                        from the shadow of the homes across the street. In hoarse, raucous tones he
                        shouted after the fleeing man:
                    "Stop! Wait! Halt!"
                    He dashed up to the spot where he had seen two figures but a moment before,
                        the full horror of what had happened striking him for the first time. The
                        man was Elias Droom, and he had been an eye-witness to the dim, indistinct
                        tragedy at the sea wall.
                    His presence is easily explained. He knew of Bansemer's telephone
                        message to Mrs. Cable, together with his threat to expose her on the
                        following morning. It was only natural that she should make a final pleathat
                        night, of course. The old clerk realised the danger of an encounter between
                        his employer and his victim at a time so intense as this. He could not know
                        that Bansemer would visit the Cable home that evening, but he suspected that
                        such would be the case. It was his duty to prevent the meeting, if possible.
                    Bansemer would go too far, argued the old man; he must be stopped. That is
                        why he lurked in the neighbourhood to turn Bansemer back before he could
                        enter the home of David Cable.
                    He saw Mrs. Cable leave the house and go towards  the lake. Following some distance behind he saw her cross the Drive and
                        make her way to the sea wall. Slinking along in the shadow of the buildings,
                        cursing his luck and Bansemer jointly, he saw the two forms come together
                        out there by the lake.
                    "Too late, curse him for a fool," Droom had muttered to
                        himself. "He ought to know this is bad business just now.
                        She's come out to meet him, too. Worse. It's my duty to
                        look out for him as long as he employs me. I'm doing my best and I
                        can't help it if he betrays himself. I'd like to see
                        himbut I can't go back on him while I'm taking money from
                        him. Look at that!"
                    He chuckled softly as he saw the two figures approach each other. For all
                        that he knew they might be contemplating a fond and loving embrace, and he
                        was not undeceived until he saw one of the figures separate itself, run from
                        the other and go plunging to the earth. As he started up in surprise, the
                        other figure leaned forward and then straightened itself quickly. Droom did
                        not hesitate. He dashed across the street, conscious that something dreadful
                        had happened. His instant thought was that Bansemer had lost his temper and
                        had struck the woman down.
                    The flight of the man was proof positive. He called him to stop, certain that
                        it was Bansemer. The runner turned his face towards him for a moment. The
                        light from the street may have deceived Elias Droom's eyes, but the
                        face of the assailant was not that of James Bansemer. Droom stopped short
                        and looked after the man, paralysed with amazement. Then he gave a snorting
                             laugh at his own stupidity; of course, it
                        was Bansemer. Who else could it be?
                    Arriving at the spot where he had last seen the couple, he was amazed to find
                        no one there. He realised, with horror, that the woman must have been struck
                        down; had fallen or had been thrown into the lake.
                    The gaunt old clerk groaned bitterly as he threw himself upon the wall and
                        peered over into the water. He listened for the cries and struggles of the
                        woman. Gradually his eyes solved the situation. He saw the row of piles
                        beyond the break in the sea wall and the swishing pool inside. Every
                        incoming wave sent a flood of water between the sturdy posts and into the
                        cut of the wall.
                    Without a moment's hesitation he dropped into this seething prison,
                        confident that the woman's body could be found there. A single
                        glance had shown him that he could crawl upward through the break to safety
                        and he knew that the water below was not dangerously deep.
                    A minute later he was scrambling out of this angry, icy water, up through the
                        fissure, bearing in his long arms the inert form of Frances Cable. He had
                        found her half-submerged in the pool, every sweep of the waves through the
                        sieve-like posts covering her completely.
                    He dropped the body on the ground after reaching the level and took a quick
                        shuddering glance about. Two men had stopped on the opposite of the Drive.
                        He hesitated a second and then shouted to them. They stood stockstill in
                        alarm. Before they could respond to  his
                        second shout, Elias Droom was tearing the woman's watch from her
                        belt and the rings from her fingers. His strong, nervous hands found the
                        necklace that she wore and it broke beneath their sudden jerk. Cunningly he
                        tossed the necklace upon the ground and trampled it with his heel. The watch
                        and rings went flying across the wall and far out into the lake.
                    "This woman has been slugged!" he shouted. He did not know
                        how much of the tragedy these men had witnessed. Boldness was his cue for
                        the moment; stealth could follow later. "She's been in the
                        water. I'm afraid it's murder. The man who did it went
                        that way. Yell for the police!"
                    If the assailant was James Bansemer, Droom was doing his duty by him. If it
                        was another, he was doing his duty by society.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    HOURS OF TERROR
                    DROOM'S intentions were clear. It was not a
                        tender heart nor was it chivalry which prompted him to do the deed of valour
                        just described. He had started out to do his duty by James Bansemer because
                        he was in his hire; and he felt it still his duty to cover the tracks of his
                        master as best he could. He knew that he was jeopardising his own safety;
                        the obstinate cunning of his nature insisted that the man he had watched was
                        Bansemer, although his brief glimpse of the fugitive's face
                        discouraged that belief.
                    The gaunt clerk kept his chin well covered with his great muffler; the broad
                        collar of his ulster was turned up about his face. The rapid plan that
                        dashed into his mind comprehended but two things: the effort to restore life
                        to Frances Cable and the hope of escaping without being recognised. He felt
                        that she had not been in the water long enough to drown; every hope depended
                        upon the force of the blow that he imagined had been delivered.
                    Chilled to the bone, his teeth chattering like castanets, the old man was
                        stooping over the inanimate form on the ground when the two men came up. In
                        answer to their startled questions, he merely said that he had seen the
                        struggle from across the street, but had been too late to prevent the
                        tragedy.
                    
                    "We must get her into one of these houses quick," he
                        grunted. "Take hold of her, you. And you over
                        there hurry and ring a doorbell. Get inside and 'phone for a
                        doctora doctor first and then the police. We may be able to save her
                        life."
                    The first of the rich men's homes denied them admission. The man of
                        the house said he would not "stand for the notoriety."
                        Droom, supporting the head of the wet, icy figure, made a remark which the
                        man was never to forget. At the second house they were admitted.
                    In an instant all was confusion. A card game was broken up and guests of the
                        house assisted their host and hostess in doing all manner of unnecessary
                        things. Droom gave the commands which sooner or later resolved themselves
                        into excited, wrathy demands upon the telephone operator, calls for a
                        certain near-by doctor, calls for the police, calls for stimulants, maids,
                        hot water bottleseverything.
                    "She's been robbed," said one of the men.
                        "Her rings have been torn off. Look at the blood!"
                    "She's well-dressed, too," said another.
                        "Say, her face looks familiar"
                    To the amazement of everyone, the lips of the woman parted and a gasping,
                        choking sound issued from between them, a slight shudder swept over her
                        frame.
                    "She's alive!" exclaimed Droom. "Get
                        these wet clothes off of herquick!"
                    The men stood grouped in the hallway while the women tore the wet garments
                        from the reviving victim and prepared a warm bed for her. Elias Droom was
                             edging towards the door, bent on escape,
                        when the awed, chattering voice of the young fellow who had assisted in
                        carrying her to the house arrested him. A great sense of relief crept over
                        him as he listened to the young man's story; his eyes blinked with
                        satisfaction. He was forgetting his own remark of a minute ago that he was
                        freezing and must get into some dry clothes at once. The young man was
                        saying:
                    "It happened right out there by the sea wallwhere the big break is.
                        Harry and I were coming up the Drive and I called attention to a man running
                        south along the wall. Just then, this gentleman ran over from this side of
                        the street and, a minute or two later, we saw him jump into the break over
                        there. Suicide, I thought, but he wasn't a minute coming up. There
                        was the woman! He'd pulled her out! By thunder, it was the bravest
                        thing I ever saw! He"
                    And then it was that everybody began to shower praise upon the man who only
                        had tried to do his duty by the one who hired him to do ugly, not gallant,
                        deeds.
                    "Did you watch which way the robber ran?" demanded Droom
                        eagerly.
                    "Lost him in the dark. He ran like fury. You must have scared him
                        off," said the second young man. "I wish we could have
                        seen his face. Did you see it?"
                    "Not distinctly," answered Droom. "He struck me as
                        being a slim young fellow, that's all." Of one thing he
                        was assured: the evidence of these two men would prove that he had acted as
                        a valiant protector and not as a thuga fear which had not left his mind
                        until now. They had seen the fleeing assailant, but there  was only one person who could identify him.
                        That person was Frances Cable, the victim. If it was not James Bansemer,
                        then who could it have been?
                    The door opened and an agitated young woman came out.
                    "It is Mrs. Cable," she cried in trembling tones.
                    The physician arrived at that moment, and a few minutes later came an officer
                        who had been hailed from the doorway. While the policeman was listening to
                        the voluble young eye-witnesses, Droom stood aloof, puzzling himself vainly
                        in the effort to solve an inside mystery. He had been ready, a few minutes
                        before, to curse himself for pulling the woman out of the water, but now, as
                        the belief grew stronger within him that her assailant was not James
                        Bansemer, his viewpoint changed. If such was the case, there would be no
                        need to fear Mrs. Cable's story if she revived sufficiently to tell
                        it. On the other hand, if it was Bansemer, he had rescued her to an ill
                        purpose. He was conscious finally that someone was speaking to him.
                    "What do you know of this?" demanded the policeman. Droom
                        repeated his brief story. "What is your name and where do you
                        live?"
                    "My name is Elias Droom and I live over in Wells Street."
                    "Could you identify the man?"
                    "I don't think so."
                    "What were you doing over in this part of town?"
                    "Walking up to see the skaters on the park lagoon. But
                        what's that got to do with it? You'd better be  out looking for the thief instead of wasting
                        time on me here," snarled Droom. The officer gasped and there is no
                        telling what might have happened, if the captain and a swarm of bluecoats
                        had not appeared on the scene at that moment. Two minutes later they were
                        off scouring the lake front in search of the mysterious hold-up man. Two
                        plain-clothes men remained to question the witnesses and to inspect the
                        neighbourhood in which the crime was committed.
                    Word came from the inner room that Mrs. Cable was regaining consciousness.
                    "Doescan she throw any light on the affair?" asked Elias
                        Droom.
                    "She has uttered no word except her husband's name. I think
                        she is still calling upon him for help, poor thing," said the young
                        woman who bore the news.
                    "Cable ought to be notified," said one of the men.
                    "Don't do it over the 'phone," said Droom
                        quickly. "I'm going past his house. I'll stop in
                        and tell him. Let me out, officer; I must get out of these wet garments.
                        I'm an old man, you know."
                    The probable solution had come to Droom like a flash. As he hurried up the
                        street his mind was full of the theory. He scarcely could wait for the door
                        of David Cable's house to be opened in response to his vigorous
                        ringing. The maid announced that Mr. and Mrs. Cable were out. It was enough
                        for Droom. He put the puzzle together in that instant. David
                        Cable's face was the one he had seen; not James
                        Bansemer's. The maid set up a hysterical shrieking when he bluntly
                        told her of the mishap to her mistress, but he did not  wait to answer questions. He was off to find James Bansemer.
                        The volcano he had been watching so long was about to burst, and he knew it.
                    Forgetting his wet garments, he entered a drug store and telephoned to
                        Bansemer's home. His employer answered the call so readily that
                        Droom knew he had not been far from the instrument that evening. There was a
                        note of disappointment in his voice when Droom's hoarse tones
                        replied to his polite: "Hello!"
                    "I'll be over in half an hour," said Droom.
                        "Very important business. Is Graydon there?"
                    "He's just gone to Cable's. Someone telephoned for
                        him a minute or so ago. What's wrong? Do you know?"
                    "I'll be there in fifteen minutes," was all that
                        Droom would say.
                    Elias' memory could not carry him back to the time when he had hired
                        a cab. A cab was one of the luxuries he had not cultivated. One can only
                        imagine his surprise, then, when he found himself hailing a passing hansom;
                        and greater the surprise he must have felt when he clambered in and ordered
                        the driver to go in a gallop to a certain place in Wells Street. Ten minutes
                        later he was attired in dry, warm clothes and in the cab again, bound for
                        Bansemer's home. What he said to James Bansemer on that memorable
                        occasion need not be repeated. It is only necessary to say that his host was
                        bitterly impressed and willing to admit that the developments might prove
                        serious. They could only speculate as to what had transpired between David
                        Cable and his wife out there by the sea wall, but it  was enough for them to know that a crisis was at hand.
                    "We'll see what the morning papers say about the
                        affair," said Bansemer, uneasy and cold.
                    The morning papers were full of the sensational robbery, the prominence of
                        the victim and the viciousness of the attack. Elias Droom read the accounts
                        eagerly as he breakfasted in the dingy little restaurant near his home,
                        bright and early. He grinned appreciably over the share of glory that fell
                        to him; and he actually cackled over the new developments in the great
                        mystery.
                    He had observed with relief that the name of James Bansemer was not
                        mentioned. The reports from the bedside of the robber's victim were
                        most optimistic. She was delirious from the effects of the shock, but no
                        serious results were expected. The great headlines on the first page of the
                        paper he was reading set his mind temporarily at rest. There was no
                        suggestion of truth in them.
                    The reader of this narrative, who knows the true facts in the case, is
                        doubtless more interested in the movements and emotions of David Cable than
                        in the surmises of others. It would be difficult, for a certainty, to ask
                        one to put himself in Cable's place and to experience the
                        sensations of that unhappy man as he fled along the dark shore of the lake.
                        Perhaps much will be taken on faith if the writer simply says that the
                        fugitive finally slunk from the weeds and refuse of what was then called
                        "The District of Lake Michigan"
                        "Streeterville," in local parlanceto find himself panting
                        and terror-struck in the bleak east end of Chicago  Avenue. It was not until then that he secured control of his
                        nerves and resorted to the stealth and cunning of the real criminal.
                    From that time until he stood shivering and white with dogged intention in a
                        theatre foyer, bent upon establishing an alibi, his movements are scarcely
                        worth the details. Between the acts he saw a dozen men whom he knew and he
                        took drinks with several of them. His tremendous will power carried him
                        through the ordeal in a way that could not have fallen to the good fortunes
                        of the ordinary lawbreaker.
                    Every second of the time his thoughts were of the thing which was being
                        buffeted by the icy waters of the lake. Where was that thing now? How far
                        out into the lake had it been carried?
                    His body was covered with the cold perspiration of dread and horror. His soul
                        was moaning; his whole being was aghast with the awfulness of the deed; he
                        could have shrieked aloud in his madness. How he lived through the hour in
                        that theatre he never could have told, nor could he believe that he was
                        sitting there with all those frightful thoughts piling themselves upon him.
                        Other people laughed and shouted with happiness; he stared and wept in his
                        heart, and shivered and cringed and groaned within himself.
                    He had killed her! She had been true to him, and yet, he had taken her
                        lifethe life she had given him! He gave no thought to Jane, no thought to
                        Bansemer; he thought only of himself as the slayer.
                    Would her body be recovered? What would be his excuse, what his punishment?
                        The gallows? A thousand  horrors ran riot in
                        his brain, a thousand tremors with each.
                    But why dwell upon the feelings of this miserable wretch? Why say more of his
                        terror, his misery, his remorse? He held himself in the seat until the
                        middle of the last act of the play. At last, unable to restrain himself
                        longer, he arose and almost ran from the theatre. That instinct which no
                        slayer can control or explain, was overpowering him; it was the instinct
                        which attracts the murderer to the spot where his crime was committed. No
                        man can describe or define this resistless impulse, and yet all criminology
                        records it, clear and unmistakable. It is no less than a form of curiosity.
                        Driven by this irresistible force, David Cable, with bravado that cost him
                        dearly, worked his uninterrupted way to the scene of his crime. By trolley
                        car to Chicago Avenue and, then, like a homeless dog scenting his way
                        fearfully, to a corner not far from the break in the wall.
                    His legs trembled and his eyes grew wide with dread. The swish of the water
                        came to his ears and he stood still for many minutes, listening for a cry
                        for help from off the shore, but none came; and again skulking alongside the
                        houses of his friends, he covered the blocks that lay between him and the
                        magnetic rift in the wall. Near the corner, he stopped with a start of
                        alarm.
                    The figure of a man could be seen standing like a statue on the very spot
                        where he had seen her disappear. While he stood there, his heart scarcely
                        beating, the solitary figure was joined by two others. Cable shrank  back into the dense shadows. Like a flash it
                        occurred to him that they were searching for the body. A shriek of agony
                        arose to his lips; but he checked it.
                    Far off on one of the crosstown streets a newsboy was calling an extrahoarse,
                        unintelligible shouts that froze his blood. He bent his ear to catch the
                        far-away words of the boy: "All about de Nor' Side
                        murder!" He cringed and shook under the raucous shout. He knew what
                        it meant.
                    A policeman suddenly turned the corner and came toward him. The first impulse
                        was to fly; the next was to stand and deliver himself. The resolution came
                        with shocking unexpectedness. He would give himself up! He would admit that
                        he had killed his wife! The words of anguish were on his lips when the
                        policeman spoke.
                    "Is it you, Mr. Cable? How is she, sir?"
                    Cable did not hear the man, for, as he opened his lips to cry out his own
                        guilt, a thought formed in his brain that almost staggered him with its
                        cunning savagery. Why not let the penalty fall on James Bansemer? She had
                        gone out to meet him! If she had not destroyed the note, it would hang James
                        Bansemer, and James Bansemer was worse than a murderer. But even as this
                        remarkable thought rushed into his brain, the last words of the officer
                        began to drive it out.
                    "Is she going to pull through, sir?" was the next
                        questionand he caught it vaguely.
                    "Pull through?" he mumbled inarticulately. He leaned
                        against a great stone rail suddenly. Everything was leaping before his eyes.
                    
                    "Good Lord, Mr. CableII forgot. Don't you know about
                        it?" gasped the officer.
                    "Know what?" asked Cable, completely dazed.
                    "Go home at once, sir. I didn't mean tooh, hurry, sir.
                        Don't be worried. They say she'll be all right. Sure!
                        She's been hurt a little, sir."
                    "My daughter?" demanded Cable, as keen as a razor in an
                        instant. His heart was trying to jump from his body.
                    "Your wife, sir. Nothin' serious, sir. She was held up
                        along here somewhere and robbed. They're sure to get the villain.
                        She"
                    But Cable was off like a deer for his home, racing as though on air.
                    Nothing else mattered now. She was alive! He could have her with him again to
                        love as he never had loved her before.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    DAVID CABLE'S DEBTS
                    TWO days passed before David Cable was permitted to see
                        his wife. During those trying hours he lived an age of agony in suspense.
                        She had been removed to her home late on the night of the
                        "hold-up," as the newspapers felt justified in calling it.
                        He did not go to his office the next daynor the nextbut haunted her door,
                        sleepless, nervous, held close by dread. A dozen times, at least, he sought
                        admittance to her room, but was always turned away, cursing the doctor and
                        the nurses for their interference.
                    His worst fear, however, was that his wife would not forgive him. Not the
                        dread of exposure, nor his own shame or remorsenot even the punishment that
                        the law might inflict, could be compared to the fear of what might be her
                        life-long hatred. He grew to feel that the doctor, the nurses, the servants
                        looked upon him with strange, unfriendly though respectful eyes. In his
                        heart he believed that his wife had cursed him in their presence, laying
                        bare his part in the unhappy transaction.
                    At last the suspense became unbearable. He had noticed a slight change in
                        Jane's manner and at once attributed it to something his wife had
                        said, for Jane had been allowed in the sick-room. The discovery that she was
                        not his child had not as yet struck deep into 
                        his understanding. In a vague sort of way he realised that she was
                        different, now that he knew, but it was impossible for him to consider her
                        in any other light than that of the years gone by. The time would come when
                        the full realisation would cut into his heart more deeply than now, but at
                        present a calamity of his own making was forcing all other troubles into the
                        background. His greatest desire was to reach his wife's side, to
                        know the worst that could come of his suit for forgiveness.
                    The evening of the second day he swore that he would see herand alone. They
                        admitted him and he entered trembling in every nerve. She was lying, white
                        and haggard, in her bed, her back toward him. He paused for an instant and
                        was certain that he saw her shudder violently. It was significant. She
                        feared and loathed him.
                    "Is it you, David?" he heard her ask weakly. "At
                        last! Oh, I was afraid that something had happened to you! That"
                    He threw himself on his knees beside the bed and wept with all the pent-up
                        bitterness and misery that was in himand still he was afraid to speak to
                        her. Not a word left his lips until he felt her hand in his haira tender,
                        timid hand. It was then that he began pouring forth his cry for forgiveness.
                        With a groan, he checked her own appeal for mercy.
                    "We can talk about Jane another time, not now," he cried.
                        "I must know that you forgive meI don't care for
                        anythingnothing else in the world."
                    When the nurse came in a few minutes later, he was  sitting upon the edge of the bed holding her hands in his.
                        Their faces were radiant.
                    "Please stay out," he said, almost gruffly.
                    "For just a little while," his wife added gently. The nurse
                        hesitated a moment and then left the room.
                    Frances Cable told him Jane's history so far as it was known to her.
                        He listened dully.
                    "She will never know her true parents," said she in the
                        end.
                    "No, I suppose not," said he, looking out of the window.
                    "You understand, don't you, David, dear," she said
                        feebly; "how I dreaded to have you learn the truth after all these
                        years, and above all, how I hoped that Jane might never know. I tried every
                        means in my power to buy James Bansemer's silence. It was not money
                        that he wanted, it was ..." she buried her head shamefully in her
                        arms; after a moment, she went on: "He professes to love his son,
                        but his is the love an animal gives the offspring it would destroy. And yet
                        Graydon worships him."
                    "Are you quite sure that Graydon is as unsuspecting as you
                        think?"
                    "In regard to his father?"
                    "In regard to Jane."
                    "Oh, I'm sure of it. He is not a party to his
                        father's schemes. If James Bansemer has not already told Graydon,
                        he never will. It is not his plan to do so; his only object has been to
                        browbeat me into submission. David, it will all come out right in the end,
                        won't it? You'll forgive me?"
                    
                    "Yes, dear; but this man," and David Cable shook with
                        emotion as he spoke, "will have to answer to me. There will be no
                        more to fear," he said reassuringly; "I'll crush
                        him as I would a snake."
                    "David, you must not"
                    "Don't worry," he broke in;
                        "I'll attend to him and see that no harm comes to anyone
                        else. That man has no business among honest people."
                    "But, David, I was not honest with you," she confessed.
                    "That was a long time ago, and she's as much mine as she is
                        yours. So, what's the odds now? It's a facer,
                        I'll admit, but it can't be helped." It was thus
                        that the man whose anger, only a few hours before had led him almost to
                        crime, now readily absolved her of any blame.
                    "Poor child, poor child!" she moaned; "it will
                        break her heart. She is so proud and so happy."
                    "Yes, she's proud. There is good blood in her. I
                        don't wonder now that I used to think she was such a marvel.
                        She'sshe's not just the same sort of stock that we are,
                        take it as you will."
                    "She never must know the truth, David."
                    "She's bound to find it out, dear. We'd better
                        tell her. It will be easier for her. Bansemer's fangs must be made
                        harmless forever. He shan't bother her. She'd better hear
                        the story from us and not from him."
                    "But Graydon? She'll lose him, David."
                    "I'm not so sure of it. She's worthy of any
                        man's love and we must know that Graydon loves her. I'll
                        trust to that. But, first of all, we must put it beyond  the power of James Bansemer to injure her in any shape or
                        form. Then, when I go after himGraydon or no Graydonhe'll know that
                        there is such a place as hell."
                    "Be rational, David. Let us take our time and think well, dear. I
                        can't bear the thought of the story that will go out concerning
                        mehow I deceived you about Jane for years and years. What will people think
                        of me? What will they say?" she almost wailed.
                    "Frances," said he, his voice tense and earnest,
                        "that is between you and me. I intend to say to the world, if
                        occasion demands, that I have known from the first that Jane was not our
                        child. That will be"
                    "Oh, David, you can't say that,"
                        she cried joyously.
                    "I shall say it, dear old partner. I shall say that you took her
                        from the asylum with my consent. There is only James Bansemer to call me a
                        liar, and he will not dare!"
                    "That old man Droom, Davidhis clerk. The man who saved mehe
                        knows."
                    "He is in the boat with his master. He did save
                        you, though. I'll spare him much for that. And I have more to fear
                        from him than you think. Frances, I am sure he saw me night before last down
                        there at the sea wall. He knowsI am morally certainthat you were not
                        attacked by a robber."
                    "But, David, I was robbed. My rings and my pendant
                        were taken by someone. If Droom was the first man at my sideafter youthen he
                        must have taken them."
                    
                    "I can't charge him with the theft," groaned
                        Cable. "He saved your life and he might ruin mine. I would give
                        anything I have to know just how much he saw of the affair. I can;t account
                        for his presence there. It seems like fate."
                    "It is impossible for him to accuse you, David."
                    "It is not impossible, I'm afraid. He may have seen me
                        plainly."
                    "But I have described my assailant to the police. You do not answer
                        the description in any particular."
                    In the next ten minutes the nurse came in twice to caution him against
                        overtaxing her nerves, politely hinting that he should depart at once. There
                        was no medicine, no nursing, no care that could have done her so much good
                        as this hour with her husband.
                    "It hurt me more than I can tell you, David, when I saw that you
                        were jealous of him. I could see it growing in you day after day, and yet I
                        could not find the courage to make everything clear to you. Oh, how could
                        you have suspected me of that?"
                    "Because I am a man and because I love you enough to care what
                        becomes of you. I was wrong, I am happy to confess. Forgive me, dear. I
                        can't tell you how terrible the last month has been to me. I
                        can't tell you of the bitter thoughts I have had, nor the vicious
                        deeds I have planned. I was almost insane. I was not accountable. I have
                        much to pay to you in the rest of the years that I live; I have much to pay
                        to my own conscience; and I also owe something to James Bansemer. I shall
                        try to pay all these different debts in the coin that they call
                        for."
                    
                    "We owe something, you and I, to Jane," said she, as he
                        arose to leave the room.
                    "A confession and more love than ever, Frances. I love her with all
                        my heart. When you are stronger, we will tell her that she is not our child.
                        We have loved her so long and so well that she can't ask for better
                        proof of our devotion. That terrible thing at the sea wall must remain our
                        secret, dear. To-morrow I shall begin pulling James Bansemer's
                        fangs."
                    He found Graydon downstairs with Jane. A sharp look into the young
                        man's eyes convinced him that his questions concerning Mrs. Cable
                        and the latest news concerning the efforts to take the bandit were sincere.
                        Cable held his hand for a long time; the firm, warm grasp was that of an
                        honest man. As he stepped out into the night for a short walk over town he
                        wondered, with a great pain in his heart, if Graydon Bansemer would turn
                        from Jane when he heard the truth concerning her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE VISIT OF HARBERT.
                    "IT's Harbert," said Elias
                        Droom.
                    "Why didn't you say to him that I am busy? I don't
                        want to see him," said his employer in a sharp undertone.
                        Droom's long finger was on his lips, enjoining silence.
                    "He said that you wouldn't want to see him, but that it
                        didn't make any difference. He'll wait, he says."
                    They were in the private office, with the door closed. Bansemer's
                        face was whiter and more firmly set than ever. The ugly fighting light was
                        in his eyes again.
                    "If he has come here to threaten me, I'll kill
                        him," he said savagely.
                    "You'll do nothing of the kind," said the clerk
                        with what was meant to be a conciliatory smile. "Meet him squarely
                        and hear what he has to say."
                    "Do you suppose she has told Cable? He may have sent Harbert
                        here."
                    "Cable's hands are tied. I know too much. If I were to tell
                        the police what I know he'd have a devil of a time getting the
                        presidency of his road. Besides, they both owe me a vote of thanks.
                        Didn't I have sense enough to make it look like robbery?"
                    "Yes, but curse your stupidity, they may charge you with the job.
                        Nobody would believe that Cable would attempt to rob his own wife."
                    
                    "But they would, in any event, decide that he had taken the rings to
                        make it appear like robbery." There was a hard rap on the glass
                        panel. "He's bound to see you, sir."
                    "Well, then, show him in!" snarled Bansemer.
                    "Mr. Bansemer will see you, sir," said Droom suavely,
                        opening the door suddenly.
                    "Thanks," said Harbert shortly. He entered the private
                        office and faced the lawyer, who was standing near his desk.
                        "I've taken advantage of your invitation to drop in and
                        see you."
                    "This is one of my busy days, Mr. Harbert," said Bansemer,
                        determined to come to the point at once. "However, I hardly
                        expected a social call from you, so it must be of a business nature. What is
                        it?"
                    "It concerns your son, Mr. Bansemer. I'm here in the
                        capacity of a physician. You must go away for his health." Harbert
                        smiled as though he thought it a good joke. Bansemer turned red and then
                        white.
                    "I don't quite appreciate your wit, sir."
                    "My humour, I'd suggest as a substitute. Well, to be
                        perfectly plain, sir, your son does not know the true nature of the malady.
                        He"
                    "Do I understand you to say that he really has an ailment?"
                        exclaimed Bansemer seriously.
                    "It isn't hopeless, my dear sir. My only desire is to keep
                        him from ever finding out that he has a malady. He is sure to learn the
                        truth if you remain here."
                    "Damn you, Harbert, I understand you now, and I want to say this to
                        you: I'll not drag that boy away from this city. He's
                        successful here and he's one of the 
                        most promising young men in town. I'm not going to have him hounded
                        from town to town by"
                    "You don't quite understand me, sir. On the contrary, he
                        should remain here. What I do mean to say is this: he won't feel
                        like staying here if the truth about his father is uttered. That's
                        the brutal way to put it, Bansemer, but you've got to
                            get out."
                    The two glared at each other for a full minute. Bansemer was as white as a
                        sheetbut not with fear.
                    "Harbert," he said in low tones, "I've
                        half a mind to kill you."
                    "Don't. You'd hang for it. There are at least a
                        dozen members of the bar who know that I have come here to see you, and they
                        know why, too. See here, Bansemer, you're a scoundrel to begin
                        with. You've always been a knave. How you happen to have a son like
                        Graydon I can't imagine. If I did not know that your wife was a
                        noble, honest woman, it wouldn't be difficult to supply a reason
                        for"
                    "Stop! By God, you shall not say a word against my wife!
                        I'll brain you with this weight! You"
                    "I have not said a word against hernor against your son. For her and
                        for him I have the deepest respect. I am trying to protect the memory of one
                        and the future of the other. Bansemer, I believe that I drove you out of New
                        York. You escaped without exposure simply because the witnesses lost their
                        nerve. That won't be the case here. You think you've
                        covered your tracks nicely. You haven't. You've tripped
                        into half a dozen traps. I don't know what your game is with the
                        Cables, but you're base enough to take advantage  of your son's position in that home.
                        Don't interrupt! I'll soon be through. I'm a man
                        of few words. If it were not for your son I'd swear out the
                        warrants for you to-day on five different charges. For his sake I'm
                        going to give you a chance. I've worked on you for three years. I
                        swore I'd get you some time. Well, I've got you, and
                        I'm going to cheat myself out of a whole lot of pleasure.
                        I'm not going to smash you as I intended. Your son's
                        friends have prevailed. To show you that I'm not bluffing, I have
                        every bit of evidence in the Burkenday case, the Flossie Bellamy job, the
                        widow Hensmith affairand it was a damnable one, toowith two or three more.
                        You broke that woman's heart. I don't suppose you know
                        that she died last month. You never noticed it, ch? Her precious coachman is
                        living like a lord on the money you and he took from her. Old
                        Burkenday's housemaid has bought a little home in Edgewaterbut not
                        from her wages. The two jobs you now have on hand never will be pulled off.
                        The girl in the Banker Watts case has been cornered and has confessed. She
                        is ready to appear against you. McLennan's wife has had the courage
                        to defy your accomplicethat dastardly butler of theirsand he has left town,
                        frightened out of his wits. Your time has come. The jig is up. It
                        won't be as it was in New York, because we have the proof. There is
                        a committee of three down in Rigby's office now waiting for me to
                        report. If I take word to them that you expect to sail for Europe next week,
                        never to return to this country, all well and good. It  is for your son's good health, bear in mind. If you
                        go, the public may never learn the truth about you; if you stay you will be
                        in jail before you are a week older. And, Mr. Bansemer, you've got
                        to decide damned quick."
                    Bansemer looked his accuser straight in the eye, a faint smile of derision
                        touching his lips, but not his eyes.
                    "Mr. Harbert, the first thing you have to learn in connection with
                        your patient's father is that he is not a coward. I refuse to run,
                        sir. I am innocent of any intentional wrong, and I'll stand my
                        ground. My son will stand beside me, too; he is that sort. Go back to your
                        committee and tell them that Bansemer will not go to Europe for his
                        son's health. Good-day, sir!"
                    "Nonsense, Bansemer," exploded Harbert. "You know
                        we've got you fast enough. Why be a fool as well as a knave? You
                        haven't a ghost of a chance. I'm trying to do you a good
                        turn."
                    "A good turn? Mr. Harbert, I am neither a fool nor a knave. If I
                        were a fool I'd kill you where you stand. I would be justified in
                        killing the man who represents a crowd of blackmailers. That's what
                        you are, sir. I refuse to pay your price. If I were a knave I'd pay
                        it. I want you to understand one thing. I shall stand my ground here. If you
                        persecute me, I'll not stop flaying you until death ends my
                        endeavours. We'll see what justice can give me in exchange for your
                        bulldozing. I will have restitution, remember that. Now, you've
                        nothing more to say to me. Get out!"
                    "Sir!"
                    
                    "Get out!"
                    "By George, you're a wonderful bluffer."
                    "Do you expect me to throw you out, sir?"
                    "It isn't necessary. I've had a change of heart in
                        the last minute, Mr. Bansemer. I withdraw my proposition. By all
                        that's holy, I intend to go after you now without pity. Hang your
                        son's feelings! You won't take my advice. I
                        didn't give it as a friend, because I detest you. It was done in a
                        weak spirit of fairness toward your son and toward the girl he is to marry.
                        Now, I put them out of my consideration. They"
                    "Get out!"
                    Harbert, very red in the face, slammed the door after him and strode angrily
                        through the outer office into the corridor. Droom immediately entered the
                        consultation room.
                    "Well? What is it?" demanded Bansemer.
                    "What did he want?"
                    "He invited me to go to Europe for an indefinite stay. I refused.
                        We'll fight it out, Droom. We have covered our trail better than he
                        thinks. They can't convict me. I'm sure of that. They have
                        nothing but conjectures, and they won't go in court."
                    "I'm afraid of him, just the same. You're
                        bullheaded about it. Every criminal thinks his tracks are covered until it
                        is too late to cover them properly."
                    "Curse you, Droom, I'm no criminal."
                    "A slip of the tongue on my part. Do you know who is down there in
                        Rigby's office with those fellows?"
                    "An officer, I daresay."
                    "No. David Cable."
                    
                    "Cable? Then, his wife has told him everything. Well, I've
                        something to tell, too. By the Lord Harry, Elias, there will be several
                        sensations in high life."
                    "You don't mean that you'll tell all there is to
                        tell about the girl?"
                    "No! That's just it! That is one thing I won't
                        tell. If you tell whose blood she has in her veins, I'll kill you
                        like a dog. But, I'll see that Miss Cable is dropped by Chicago
                        society inside of a week. I'm mad, Droomdo you
                        understand?"
                    "But Graydon loves her."
                    "He won't love her long. I was a fool to let him go this
                        fara blind, loving fool. But I'll end it now. He shan't
                        marry her. He has no"
                    "I haven't much of a heart to boast of, Bansemer, but I beg
                        of you not to do this thing. I love Graydon. He doesn't deserve any
                        pain or disgrace. Take my advice and leave the city. Let me call Harbert
                        back."
                    "No! They can't drive me out! Telephone over and ask
                        Graydon to stop here on his way up this afternoon."
                    The opening and closing of the outer door attracted their attention. Droom
                        peeped forth. In spite of himself, Bansemer started and his eyes widened
                        with sudden alarm. A glance of apprehension passed between the two men.
                    "It's that Deever boy from Judge
                        Smith's," reported Droom.
                    "Tell him to get out," said Bansemer, with a breath of
                        relief.
                    "I thought it might have been" began Droom with a wry grin.
                    
                    "Nonsense!"
                    "It is a bit too soon. They haven't had time."
                    As Droom left the room, Bansemer crossed to the window and looked down into
                        the seething street far below. He saw that his hand trembled and he tried to
                        laugh at his weakness. For a long time he stood there, his unseeing eyes
                        focused on the hurrying masses, his ears alert for unusual sounds from the
                        outer office.
                    "If it were not for Graydon," he was muttering between set
                        teeth. "God, how I hate to have him know!"
                    Droom had told Eddie Deever to "get out," but Eddie was
                        there to talk and be talked to, so he failed to take the hint.
                    "Say, I haven't seen you since you played the hero up in
                        the fashionable part of town. Gee, that was a startler! I'll bet
                        old man Cable rewards you in some way. What's your theory about the
                        hold-up?"
                    Droom looked up sharply. For the first time there shot into his mind the
                        thought that the breezy boy might be a spy.
                    "I haven't any," he replied shortly. He was trying
                        to remember if he had ever said anything incriminating to the boy.
                    "How d' you happen to be over there just at that
                        time?"
                    "I haven't time to talk about it. Please don't
                        bother me. It happened three days ago and I've really forgotten
                        about it. Don't throw that cigarette into the wastebasket.
                        Haven't you any sense?"
                    "Gee, you don't suppose I'm going to throw it
                        away,  do you? There's half an inch
                        of it left. Not me. Say, I've heard your boss has quite a case on
                        Mrs. Cable. How about it?" he almost whispered this.
                    "You shouldn't talk like that."
                    "Oh, you mean that gag about people living in glass houses? Gee,
                        don't worry about that. Chicago is a city of glass houses. A blind
                        man could throw rocks all day and smash a hole in somebody's house
                        every crack. I believe the hold-up man was one of those strikers who have
                        been out of jobs all winter. Smith thinks so."
                    "Who?"
                    "Judge Smith."
                    "That's better."
                    "Did you see his face?"
                    "What are you, buba detective?"
                    "Rosie Keating says I'd make a better policeman than
                        lawyer. She's sore at me for taking Miss Throckmorton to
                        Mam' Galli's the other night. Fellow stood on the piano
                        and sang the derndest song I've ever heard. But, gee, I
                        don't think Miss Throck was on. She didn't seem to notice,
                        I mean. Say, on the dead, do you think you could identify that
                        fellow?"
                    "Look here, boy, if anyone ever asks you whether I'd know
                        that man's face if I saw it again, you just say that I'd
                        know it in a thousand. I saw it plainly."
                    Eddie gulped suddenly and looked more interested than ever.
                    "Do you think they'll get him?"
                    "They will if he talks too much."
                    "I hope so. Say, how's that new patent coming on?"
                    
                    "I'm not making a patent. I'm making a model.
                        It's nearly completed. The strike in the shops is holding me back
                        with it. Curse these strikes."
                    "Oh, they bust 'em up mighty quick. There hasn't
                        been a big one on since Debs engineered his and Cleveland called out the
                        troops."
                    "Boy, you wait a few years and you'll see a strike that
                        will paralyse you. Look at these teamsters. They're powerful now.
                        They'll get licked, but they'll come back. When the next
                        big money panic comesit'll be in my day, tooyou'll see the
                        streets of Chicago running with blood. These fellows will go after the rich,
                        and they'll get 'em. You will live to see the day when
                        women who wear diamonds around their throats will have harsh, horny fingers
                        there instead. There will be rich men's blood on every paving stone
                        and beautiful necks will be slit with less mercy than marked the French
                        butchery years ago. That's my prophecy. Some day you'll
                        recall it to mind, especially if you happen to become very prosperous.
                        It's bound to come. Now get out. I have a lot of writing to
                        do." Eddie snickered.
                    "What will the law be doing all this time?"
                    "Bosh! The law can't even capture Mrs. Cable's
                        assailant. Do you know what the human lust for blood is? Take an enraged
                        man, doesn't he hunger for blood? He wants to kill and he does
                        kill. Well, he is but an atoman individual. Now, can you imagine what it
                        will mean when a whole class of people, men and women, are forced to one
                        common conditionthe lust for blood? The individual lusts, and so will the
                        mass. The rage of the mass will be the same as the fury of  the individual. It will be just like one
                        tremendous man of many parts rioting for"
                    The outer door opened suddenly and an old gentleman entered.
                    "Is Mr. Bansemer here?" he asked, removing his silk hat
                        nervously.
                    "Yes, Mr. Watts. I'll tell him you are here."
                    Watts, the banker, confronted Bansemer a moment later, an anxious, hunted
                        look in his eyes. John Watts was known as one of the meanest men in the
                        city. No one had bested him in a transaction of any kind. As hard as nails
                        and as treacherous as a dog, he was feared alike by man and woman.
                    Watts, perhaps for the first time in his self-satisfied life, was ready to
                        bow knee to a fellow-man. A certain young woman had fallen into the skilful
                        hands of Counsellor James Bansemer, and Mr. Watts was jerked up with a
                        firmness that staggered him.
                    "Mr. Bansemer, I have come in to see if this thing can't be
                        settled between us. I don't want to go into court. My wife and
                        daughters won't understand that it's a case of blackmail
                        on the part of this woman. Let's come to terms."
                    Bansemer smiled coolly. It was impossible to resist the temptation to toy
                        with him for a while, to humble and humiliate this man who had destroyed
                        hundreds in his juggernaut ride to riches. Skilfully he drew the old man
                        out. He saw the beads of perspiration on his brow and heard the whine come
                        from his voice. Then, in the end, he sharply changed his tactics.
                    "See here, Watts, you've got a wrong impression of  this affair. I don't like your
                        inferences. I am not asking you for a cent. I wouldn't take it. You
                        have just offered me 25,000 to drop the affair.
                        That's an insult to my integrity. I've investigated this
                        girl's claim pretty thoroughly and I believe she is trying to
                        fleece you. I have given up the case. None of that sort of thing for me.
                        She'll go to some unscrupulous lawyer, no doubt, but I am out of
                        it. I don't handle that kind of business. You have insulted me. Get
                        out of my office, sir, and never enter it again."
                    "Give me that in writing," began the wily banker, but
                        Bansemer had called to Droom. Eddie Deever was standing near the door,
                        almost doggedly curious.
                    "Show Mr. Watts the door, and if he ever comes here again call the
                        police. He has tried to bribe me."
                    Watts departed in a dazed sort of way and Droom closed the door.
                    "Are you still here?" he demanded of Eddie Deever in such a
                        manner that the young man lost no time in leaving.
                    "There goes twenty-five thousand," said Bansemer, with a
                        cold grin.
                    "I guess you can afford to lose it," muttered Droom.
                        "It was slick, I suppose, but it's probably too late to
                        help."
                    "Have you telephoned to Graydon?"
                    "Not yet."
                    "Don't."
                    "Change of heart?"
                    "Change of mind."
                    "That's so. You haven't any heart."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE CRASH
                    BANSEMER was not losing his courage; it was only the dread
                        of having Graydon find out. He stuck close to his office, seeing but few
                        people. However, he did saunter into Rigby's office for a friendly
                        chat, but learned nothing from the manner of that astute young man. With a
                        boldness that astonished himselfand he was at no time timidhe asked if
                        Harbert intended to remain in Chicago for any length of time. After he had
                        gone away, Rigby rubbed his forehead in a bewildered sort of way and
                        marvelled at the nerve of the man.
                    The day passed slowly; but late in the afternoon the suspense became so keen
                        that he found it difficult to keep himself from making inquirios of the
                        proper officials as to whether affidavits had been filed by Harbert or any
                        other person. His hand did not shake now, but there was a steady pain at the
                        back of his head.
                    "Droom, I think I'll go home. If I don't appear in
                        the morning, you'll know that I'm at some police station.
                        Good-day!"
                    "Good-bye!" said Elias, with correcting emphasis. Bansemer
                        laughed heartily.
                    "I believe you'd like to see me jugged."
                    
                    "Not unless you could be convicted. I'll have to remain in
                        your employ until then, I suppose."
                    "I've often wondered why you don't quit of your
                        own accordit seems so distasteful to you."
                    "I'm working for you from force of habit."
                    "You'll turn State's evidence if I'm
                        arrested, no doubt, curse you."
                    "If my word counted for anything," and he raised his hand;
                        "I'd say'So help meI
                        shan't.'"
                    "I've never been able to understand you."
                    "I guess you've always understood my feelings towards
                        you."
                    "You hate me?"
                    "I'm no exception to the rule."
                    "But hang you, you're faithful?"
                    "Oh, I'll pay for it, never fear. You won't
                        hesitate to sacrifice me if it will help you in any way. But, let me tell
                        you something. Elias Droom has been smart enough to cover every one of his tracks, even if he hasn't been able to cover
                        yours. I can't perform miracles. You don't seem as keen to
                        bring about the family explosion as you were, I observe."
                    "By heavens, I can't bear the thought of that boyoh, well,
                        close up the office as soon as you like."
                    After he was safely out of the office Elias Droom glided into the private
                        office, drew forth his bunch of keys and opened his employer's
                        desk. A big revolver lay in the top drawer. The old clerk quickly removed
                        the five cartridges and as deftly substituted a new set of them in their
                        stead. The new ones were minus the explosive power. He grinned as he
                        replaced the  weapon and closed the desk.
                        Dropping the cartridges into his coat pocket, he returned to his own desk,
                        chuckling as he set to work on his papers.
                    "I won't betray him to the law, but I've fixed it
                        so that he can't escape it in that way."
                    Bansemer's man informed him upon his arrival home that Mr. Graydon
                        would not be in for dinner. He had left word that Mrs. Cable was very much
                        improved and that he and Miss Cable were going out for a long drivein a
                        hansom. It was his intention to dine with Mr. and Miss Cable, very
                        informally.
                    Bansemer sat in surly silence for a long time, trying to read. A fierce new
                        jealousy was growing in his heart. It was gradually dawning upon him that
                        the Cables had alienated his son's affections to no small degree.
                        The fear grew upon him that Graydon ultimately would go over to them,
                        forgetting his father in the love for the girl. Resentment, strong and
                        savage, flooded his heart. He could eat no dinner. He was full of curses for
                        the fate which forced him to dine alone while his son was off rejoicing with
                        people whom he was beginning to hate with a fervour that pained him.
                        Jealousy, envy, malice, fired his blood.
                    He went out and bought the evening papers. The thought came to him that
                        Graydon had heard the stories and was deliberately staying away from him.
                        Perhaps the Cables had been talking to him.
                    "By Heaven," he grated as he paused in front of his home,
                        "if she's turned him against me I'll turn this
                        city into anything but a paradise for her. What a  fool I've been to wait so long. I've given
                        her the chance to tell her side of the case first. She's made the
                        first impression. What could I have been thinking of? Droom was right. I
                        should have demanded less of her. A man is never too old to be a fool about
                        women. Oh, if she's turned that boy against me,
                        I'll"
                    He did not finish the threat, but started off swiftly through the night
                        toward the Cable home. He had no especial object in view; it was simply
                        impossible for him to conquer the impulse to be near his son. Like a thief
                        he lurked about the street in the vicinity of Cable's house,
                        standing in the shadows, crossing and recrossing the street many times,
                        always watching the lighted windows with heateful eyes. It was after eight
                        o'clock and the night was damp with the first breath of spring.
                        There was a slight chill in the air, but he did not feel it, although he was
                        without an overcoat.
                    The lights on the second floor, he knew, were in Mrs. Cable's room.
                        In his mind's eye, he could see Graydon there with the others
                        listening to the story as it fell from prejudiced, condemning lipsthe
                        pathetic, persuasive lips of a sick woman. He knew the effect on the
                        chivalrous nature of his son; he could feel the coldness that took root in
                        his boy's heart.
                    A light mist began to blow in his face as he paced back and forth along the
                        short block in which the Cables lived. He was working his imagination up to
                        a state bordering on frenzy. In his fancy he could hear Graydon cursing him
                        in the presence of his accusers.  At the end
                        of the street he could see the break in the sea wall where Cable and his
                        wife had met, and he could not help wishing that Droom had not pulled her
                        from the water. Then he found himself wondering if they had told Jane the
                        story of her origin. The hope that she was still undeceived flashed through
                        him; it would give him a chance for sweet revenge.
                    He confessed to himself that he was reckless. The transactions of the past
                        few days had left him at the edge of the abyss; he recognised his peril, but
                        could not see beyond his own impulses.
                    "I believe I'll do it," he was muttering to
                        himself as he paused across the street from their door. "Graydon
                        ought to hear both sides of the story."
                    He crossed the street with hesitating steps. His thin coat collar was
                        buttoned close about his neck; his gloveless hands were wet and cold from
                        the mist. As he stopped at the foot of the stone steps a man came hurrying
                        along, glancing at the house numbers as he approached.
                    "Do you know whether this is David Cable's house?"
                        he asked.
                    Bansemer saw that he was a young man and an eager one.
                    "I think it is."
                    The other bounded up the steps and rang the bell. When the servant opened the
                        door Bansemer heard the new arrival ask for Cable, adding that he was from
                        one of the newspapers, and that he must see him at once.
                    Bansemer stood stark and dumb at the foot of the  steps. The whole situation had rushed upon him like an avalanche. Harbert
                        had filed his charges and the hasty visit of the reporter proved that David
                        Cable was an instrument in them. The blood surged to his head; he staggered
                        under the shock of increased rage.
                    "Graydon is against me! They've won him over! Open the
                        door, damn you! I want my son!" He shouted the demand in the face
                        of the startled servant as he pushed rudely past him.
                    "You stay here, young fellow, and you'll hear a story that
                        will fill a whole paper. I am James Bansemer. Where is Cable? You!"
                        to the servant.
                    "Sh!" cried the frightened servant, recognising him.
                        "Mrs. Cable is resting, sir."
                    "What are you doing here?" Bansemer demanded of the
                        reporter, exerting all his crafty resourcefulness in the effort to calm
                        himself.
                    "Cable has been elected president of the" began the young
                        man just as Cable himself started down the stairway.
                    "Cable, where is my son?" demanded Bansemer loudly,
                        starting toward the steps. He had not removed his hat and was, indeed, an
                        ominous figure. Cable clutched the stair rail and glared down at him in
                        amazement. Before he could pull himself together sufficiently to reply,
                        Graydon Bansemer hurried past him and stared in alarm at the unexpected
                        figure below.
                    "What's the matter, dad?" he cried. "What
                        has happened?"
                    "Aha? You think something could have happened,  eh? Damn all of their souls, you
                        shan't be taken in by them. Come down here, boy!"
                    "Father, are you crazy?" gasped Graydon, rushing down the
                        stairs.
                    "Get him away from here, Graydon, for God's sake,"
                        exclaimed Cable. "Take him away! He's your father, but if
                        he stays in this house a minute longer I'll kill him!"
                    The man from the newspaper was shrewd enough to withdraw into a less exposed
                        spot. He saw a great "beat" in prospect.
                    Graydon stopped as if stunned by a blow. Bobby Rigby came running to the head
                        of the stairs, followed by Jane and another young woman. James Bansemer
                        could not have been expected to know it, but Rigby and Miss Clegg had come
                        to tell these friends that they were to be married in December.
                    "Kill me, eh? Not if you can't do a better job than you did
                        the other night. Here, you reporter, ask Mr. Cable to explain the mystery of
                        that affair on the lake front. Oh, I know all about it! You've
                        started in to ruin me, but I'll be in on it myself. We'll
                        have a general cleaning up."
                    "Father! What are you talking about?" cried Graydon,
                        aghast.
                    "They haven't told you about the lake front, eh? I should
                        think not! See him cringe!"
                    Cable had indeed fallen back against the wall, halfway up the steps, white
                        and trembling. His eyes were raised, and he was the first to see Mrs. Cable
                        as she came from her room.
                    
                    "Go back!" he whispered hoarsely to her. She reached the
                        banister and leaned over, her eyes filling with terror after a swift glance
                        at Jane.
                    "Take Jane away," she murmured, realising that the blow was
                        to fall.
                    "I'll stop his infernal tongue!" shouted Cable,
                        leaping down the steps, his eyes blazing. James Bansemer laughed as he
                        braced himself for the shock. They did not come together, for Graydon threw
                        his big frame in the path of the assailant. For an instant there was a
                        frightful uproar. Rigby and the servant rushed to the young man's
                        assistance. The women were screaming with terror, the men were shouting and
                        there was a violent struggle which played havoc in the hallway.
                    "Call the police!" shouted Rigby.
                    "You infernal traitor!" hissed James Bansemer.
                        "You claim to be Graydon's friend, and yet you are the one
                        who has led the plot to ruin me."
                    "What does it all mean?" cried Graydon, holding the shaking
                        Cable tightly.
                    There was a moment of intense silence, except for the heavy breathing of the
                        men. Graydon was staring wide-eyed at his father. He saw the cruel, sardonic
                        smile spread over his face and shuddered.
                    "I've simply come to take you out of the clutches of these
                        people. I've waited to see if that scheming woman up there would
                        tell you of her own accord. She hasn't told you; so I will. You
                        cannot marry that girl, for your haughty Jane Cable is a child of shame,
                        picked up on a doorstep, cast off by the woman who conceived her!"
                    
                    The crash had come. The heartless accuser stood like a tragic player in the
                        centre of his stage, pouring out his poison without a touch of pity for the
                        stricken girl who, after the first thrill of indignation and horror, had
                        shrunk back into her mother's arms, bewildered.
                    "Call the police, if you like," laughed Bansemer, at the
                        end of his tirade. "It isn't a criminal offence to tell
                        the truth. It will sound just as well in court, Mr. Rigby."
                    "Jane, Jane," Mrs Cable was murmuring, "I might
                        have saved you all this, but I couldn'toh, I couldn't pay
                        the price."
                    "You snake!" groaned Cable, weak and hoarse with rage.
                        "Jane, he has lied! There is not a word of truth in what he says. I
                        swear it to you."
                    "Ho, ho! By Heaven, she hasn't told you, after
                        all!" cried Bansemer. "You still think she is
                        yours!"
                    "Father!" exclaimed Graydon, standing straight before the
                        other. David Cable had dropped limply into a chair, his hand to his heart.
                        "I won't stand by and hear you any longer. Take back what
                        you've said about her, or, damn you, I'll forget that you
                        are my father and"
                    "Graydon!" exclaimed Bansemer, falling back, his expression
                        changing like a flash. The smile of triumph left his face and his lip
                        twitched. "You forget II am doing this for your sake. My God, boy,
                        you don't understand. Don't turn from me to them. They
                        have"
                    "That's enough, father! Don't say another word!
                        You've talked like a madman. See! Look what you've  done! Oh, Jane!" he caught sight of
                        the girl on the landing and rushed up to her.
                    "Is it true, Graydonis it true?" she wailed, beating her
                        hands upon his arm.
                    "No! It can't be true! He's gone mad,
                        dearest."
                    "Is it true, mother? Tell me, tell me!"
                    Frances Cable's white lips moved stiffly, but no sound came forth.
                        Her eyes spoke the truth, however. The girl sank limp and helpless in
                        Graydon's arms and knew no more. At the foot of the steps Rigby was
                        pointing his trembling finger at James Bansemer.
                    "You'll pay for this to-morrow!" he was saying.
                        "Your day has come! You cutthroat! You blackmailer!"
                    "Graydon!" called the father. "Come, let us go
                        home. Come, boy!"
                    "Not nownot now," answered the son hoarsely.
                        "I'llI'll try to come home to-night, father.
                        I'm not sure that I can. My place is herewith her."
                    Without a word James Bansemer turned and rushed out into the street, tears of
                        rage and disappointment in his eyes. He had not expected the gall. Until the
                        break of day he sat in his chill room waiting for the rasp of his
                        son's night keybut Graydon did not come home.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    FATHER AND SON
                    GRAYDON sat with his chin in his hands, dull, stricken,
                        crushed. He had heard the story of his father's baseness from
                        Frances Cable, and he had been told the true story of Jane; from Rigby he
                        learned of the vile transactions in which his father had dealt. At first, he
                        could scarcely believe his own ears, but in the end he saw that but half the
                        truth could be told.
                    It was past midnight when he left David Cable's, not to go to his
                        own home, but to that of Elias Droom. He knew now that the newspapers would
                        devote columns to the "sensation in high life"; he knew
                        that Jane would suffer agonies untold, but he would not blame his father for
                        that; he knew that arrest and disgrace hung over the tall grey man who had
                        shown his true and amazing side at last; he knew that shame and humiliation
                        were to be his own share in the division. Down somewhere in his aching heart
                        he nourished the hope that Elias Droom could ease the pain of these wretched
                        disclosures.
                    As he traversed the dark streets across town he was vaguely wondering whether
                        Jane's eyes would ever lose the pained, hopeless expression he had
                        last seen in them. He wondered whether she would retract her avowal that she
                        could not be his wife with the shame  upon
                        her; he rejoiced in her tearless, lifeless promise to hold him in no fault
                        for what had happened.
                    Distressed and miserable, he spent the remainder of the night in Elias
                        Droom's squalid rooms, sitting before the little stove which his
                        host replenished from time to time during the weary hours.
                    Droom answered his questions with a direct tenderness that surprised even
                        himself. He kept much to himself, however, and advised the young man to
                        reserve judgment until after he had heard his father's side of the
                        story.
                    "I've been loyal to James Bansemer, Graydon, and
                        I'll still be loyal to him. He's not done right by other
                        people, but he has tried to do right by you."
                    "If he wanted to do right by me, why did he not tell me of
                        Jane'smisfortune?" exclaimed the young man bitterly.
                    "Because he really wanted you to marry her. She was born wrong, but
                        anybody can see she is without a flaw. That's the truth, Graydon.
                        Your father was wrong in his desire to make capital of it in connection with
                        Mrs. Cable. I told him so. I don't believe he knew just what he was
                        doing. He was so used to success, you see. Can't you go to sleep,
                        boy? You need to."
                    "God, no!"
                    "I'd advise you to go home and talk it over with your
                        father."
                    "To-morrow will be time enough. After the newspapers are out. I
                        can't bear to think of the disgrace. Harbert has been interviewed,
                        they say. He's told everything."
                    
                    "Talk to your father to-night, my boy. There may bemay be warrants
                        to-morrow."
                    The young man dropped his head on his arm and burst into tears. Old Droom
                        puffed vigorously at his pipe, his eyes shifting and uncomfortable. Twice he
                        attempted to speak, and could not. In both instances he arose and poked the
                        fire. At last the young man's choking sobs grew less violent. Droom
                        cleared his throat with raucous emphasis, took his snaky gaze from a print
                        on the wall representing "Dawn," and spoke:
                    "You wouldn't think it to look at me nowor any other time,
                        for that matterbut I loved a woman once. A long time ago. She never knew it.
                        I didn't expect her to love me. How could I? Don't cry,
                        Graydon. You're not like I was. The girl you love loves you. Cheer
                        up. If I were you I'd go ahead and make her my wife. She's
                        good enough, I'll swear."
                    "She says she can't marry me. Good Heaven, Elias, you
                        don't know what a blow it was to her. It almost killed her. And my
                        own fatheroh, it was terrible!"
                    Elias Droom did not tell himnor had he ever told anyone but himselfthat the
                        woman he loved was the boy's mother. He loved her before and after
                        she married James Bansemer. He never had faltered in his love and reverence
                        for her.
                    Graydon waited in his rooms until the old man returned with the morning
                        papers. As Droom placed them on the table beside him, he grinned cheerfully.
                    "Big headlines, eh? But these are not a circumstance  to what they will be. These articles deal
                        only with the great mystery concerning the birth of one of the
                        'most beautiful and popular young women in Chicago.' Wait
                        wait until the Bansemer smash comes to reinforce the story! Fine reading,
                        eh!"
                    "Don't, Elias, for Heaven's sake,
                        don't!" cried the young man. "Have you no soft
                        spot in your heart? God, I believe you enjoy all this. Look! Look what it
                        says about her! The whole shameful story of that scene last night! There was
                        a reporter there when it happened."
                    Together they read the papers. Their comments varied. The young man writhed
                        and groaned under the revelations that were going to the public; the old
                        clerk chuckled and philosophised.
                    Every one of these papers prophesied other and more sensational developments
                        before the day was over. It promised to be war to the knife between David
                        Cable, president of the Pacific, Lakes & Atlantic, and the man
                        Bansemer. In each interview with Cable he was quoted as saying emphatically
                        that the adoption of Jane had been made with his knowledge and consent. The
                        supposed daughter was the only one to whom the startling revelations were a
                        surprise. There also was mention of the fact that the young woman had
                        immediately broken her engagement with James Bansemer's son. There
                        were pictures of the leading characters in the drama.
                    "I can't stay in Chicago after all this,"
                        exclaimed Graydon, springing to his feet, his hands clenched in despair.
                        "To be pointed out and talked about! To  be pitied and scorned! To see the degradation of my own
                        father! I'll goanywhere, just so it is away from Chicago."
                    Droom forgot his desire to scoff. His sardonic smile dwindled into a
                        ludicrously, pathetic look of dismay. He begged the young man to think twice
                        before he did anything "foolish." "In any
                        event," he implored, "let me get you some breakfast, or at
                        least, a cup of coffee."
                    In the end he helped Graydon into his coat and glided off down Wells Street
                        after him. It was seven o'clock, and every corner newsstand
                        glowered back at them with black frowns as they looked at the piles of
                        papers. Two rough-looking men walking ahead of them were discussing the
                        sensation in a lewed, brutal way. A saloonkeeper shouted to them:
                        "It don't always happen over on de West Side, does
                        it?"
                    Graydon went to the office of Clegg, Groll & Davidson early and
                        arranged his affairs so that they could be taken up at once by another; and
                        then, avoiding his fellow-workers as much as possible, presented himself to
                        Mr. Clegg at ten o'clock. Without hesitation he announced his
                        intention to give up his place in the office. All argument put forth by his
                        old friend and employer went for naught. The cause of his action was not
                        discussed, but it was understood.
                    "If you ever want to come back to us, Graydon, we will welcome you
                        with open arms. It isn't as bad as you think."
                    "You don't understand, Mr. Clegg," was all that
                        Graydon could say.
                    
                    Then he hurried off to face his father.
                    James Bansemer, haggard from loss of sleep and from fury over the alienation
                        of his son, together with the fear of what the day might bring, was pacing
                        the floor of his private office. Droom had eased his mind but little in
                        regard to his son. When he heard Graydon's voice in the outer room,
                        his face brightened ad he took several quick steps toward the door. He
                        checked himself suddenly with the remembrance that his son had turned
                        against him the night before, and his face hardened.
                    Graydon found him standing stern and unfriendly before the steam radiator in
                        the darkest corner of the room, his hands behind his back. The young man
                        plumped down heavily in his father's desk chair.
                    "Why didn't you come home last night?" demanded
                        the other.
                    "I hated the thought of it," he answered dejectedly.
                    "You've listened to their side of the story.
                        You're a splendid son, you are!" sneered the father.
                    "There is nothing base and unprincipled in their side of the story.
                        They have tried to shield her; they have never harmed her. But you! Why,
                        father, you've blighted her life forever. They were going to tell
                        her in a day or so, and they could have made it easy for her. Not like this! Why, in Heaven's name, did you strike her
                        like that? She'sshe's the talk of the town. She's
                        ostracised, that's what she is, and she's the best girl
                        that ever lived."
                    "Oh, you think they would have told her, eh? No! They would have let
                        her marry"
                    
                    "Well, and what was your position? Why were you so considerate up to
                        last night? If you knew, why did you let me go on so blindly? The truth is,
                        father, if you must have it, you have acted like a damned
                        scoundrel."
                    James Bansemer glared at his son with murder in his eyes.
                    "I wouldn't have believed the other things they say of you
                        if I hadn't this to break down my faith. I heard
                        othis with my own ears. It was too contemptible to forget in a lifetime. I
                        did not come here to discuss it with you. The thing is done. I came here to
                        tell you that I am going to leave Chicago. You won't go, so I will." Bansemer still glared at him,
                        but there was amazement mingling with rage in his eyes. "I
                        can't look a soul in the face. I am ashamed to meet the Cables.
                        Good Lord, I'm afraid even to think of Jane."
                    "I suppose youyou would marry her, like a fool, even now,"
                        muttered the father.
                    "Marry her? Of course I would. I love her more than ever.
                        I'd give my life for her; I'd give my soul to ease the
                        pain you have thrust upon her. But it's over between us.
                        Don't let our affairs worry you. She has ended it. I don't
                        blame her. How could she marry your son? Why, do you know that I have hoped
                        that I might not be your son, after all? I almost prayed that my mother
                        might have loved someone else instead of you. God, I'd like the
                        pain of knowing that."
                    Bansemer leaned heavily against the radiator, gasping for breath. Then he
                        staggered to the couch and dropped upon it, moaning.
                    
                    "Graydon, Graydon! Don't say that! Don't!
                        I'll make everything right. I'll try to undo it all! My
                        boy, you are the only thing on earth I love. I've been heartless to
                        all the rest of the world, but I love you. Don't turn against
                        me."
                    The son stood looking at him in dull wonder. His heart was touched. He had
                        not thought that this stern man could weep; he began to see the misery that
                        was breaking him.
                    "Dad, don't do that," he said, starting toward
                        him. "I'm sorry. I'm sorry for you."
                    Bansemer leaped to his feet, his mood changing like a flash.
                    "I don't want your pity. I want your love and loyalty. I
                        didn't mean to be weak. Will you leave Chicago with me? I must go.
                        We'll go at onceanywhere, only together. We can escape if we start
                        now. Come!"
                    "I won't go that way!" exclaimed Graydon.
                        "Not like a criminal."
                    "No? You won't?" There was no answer.
                        "Then, there's nothing more to say. Go! Leave me alone. I
                        had prayed that you might not have been like this. Go! I have important
                        business to attend to at once." He cast his gaze toward the drawer
                        in which the pistol lay. "I don't expect to see you again.
                        Take this message to the Cables. Say that I am the only living soul who
                        knows the names of that girl's father and mother. God alone can
                        drag them from me."
                    Graydon was silent, stunned, bewildered. His father was trembling before him,
                        and he opened his lips to  utter the question
                        that meant so much if the answer came.
                    "Don't ask me!" cried Bansemer. "You
                        would be the last I'd tell. Marry her, and be dammed!"
                    "I don't believe you know," cried Graydon.
                    "Ah, you think I'll tell you?" triumphantly.
                    "I don't want to know." He sat down, his moody
                        gaze upon his father. Neither spoke for many minutes. Neither had the
                        courage. James Bansemer finally started up with a quick look at the door.
                        Droom was speaking to someone in the outer office.
                    "Go now," he said harshly; "I want to be
                        alone."
                    "Father, are youare you afraid of these charges?" His
                        father laughed shortly and extended his hand to the young man.
                    "Don't worry about me. They can't down James
                        Bansemer. You may leave Chicago; I'll stay! Good-bye,
                        Graydon!"
                    "Good-bye, dad!"
                    They shook hands without flinching and the young man left the room. On the
                        threshold the father called after him:
                    "Where do you expect to go?"
                    "I don't know!"
                    Droom was talking to a youth who held a notebook in his hand and who appeared
                        frightened and embarrassed. Graydon shook hands with the old man. Droom
                        followed him into the hall.
                    "If you ever need a friend, Graydon," he said in a low
                        voice, "call on me. If I'm not in jail, I'll help
                        you."
                    
                    Half an hour later Graydon rang the Cables' doorbell.
                    "Miss Jane is not seeing anyone to-day, sir," said the
                        servant.
                    "Say that I must see her," protested the young man
                        "I'm going away to-night."
                    "So is she, sir."
                    "Where?"
                    "I don't know, sir. California, more than likely. Mrs.
                        Cable and she will be gone for some time."
                    "Did she tell you not to admit me?" he asked, whitefaced
                        and calm.
                    "Yes, sir. Nobody, sir."
                    He turned down the steps and walked away.
                    That afternoon he enlisted, and the following morning was going westward with
                        a party of recruits, bound eventually for service with the Regulars in the
                        Philippines.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    IN THE PHILIPPINES
                    DAVID CABLE lost no time in hurrying
                        away from Chicago with his wife and Jane. They were whisked westward in his
                        private car on the second day after the Bansemer exposure. Broken-spirited,
                        Jane acquiesced in all their plans; she seemed as one in a stupor,
                        comprehending, yet unresponsive to the pain that enveloped her.
                    "I can't see anyone that I know here," she said
                        listlessly. "Oh, the thought of what they are saying!"
                    They did not tell her that Graydon had enlisted as a private soldier in the
                        United States Army; Jane only knew that she loved him and that the bar
                        sinister existed.
                    Cable's devotion to her was beautiful. He could not have been more
                        tender had she been his own daughter, instead of his wife's
                        imposition.
                    Jane was ill in Pasadena for many weeks. Her depressed condition made her
                        recovery doubtful. It was plain to two persons, at least, that she did not
                        care whether she lived or died. The physicians were puzzled, but no
                        explanation was offered by the Cables. It was not until certain Chicago
                        sojourners generously spread the news, that the cause of her breakdown
                        became apparent to the good doctors. Before many days,  the girl who sat, wan and distrait, upon the flowershaded
                        piazza was an object of curiosity to fashionable Pasadena. As soon as she
                        was strong enough to endure the trip, the hunted trio forsook Pasadena and
                        fled northward.
                    San Francisco afforded relief in privacy. Jane's spirits began to
                        revive. There had not been, nor was there ever to be, any mention of that
                        terrible night and its revelations. What she may have felt and suffered in
                        secret could only be conjectured by those who loved her. Bansemer's
                        name was never uttered. His fate remained unknown to her. The far-away,
                        unhappy look in her eyes proved to them that Graydon was never out of her
                        thoughts.
                    David Cable was in Chicago when Mrs. Cable received word from her sister,
                        once Kate Coleman, that she soon would reach San Francisco with her husband,
                        bound for the Philippines. Kate was the wife of a West Pointer who had
                        achieved the rank of colonel in the volunteers, by virtue of political
                        necessity. His regiment had been ordered to the islands, and she was
                        accompanying him with their daughter, a girl of sixteen.
                    Colonel Harbin had seen pleasant service at the Eastern posts where his wife
                        had attained a certain kind of social distinction in the army fast set. She
                        was not especially enamoured of the prospect ahead of her in the
                        Philippines; but the new colonel was a strict disciplinarian on and off the
                        field. He expected to be a brigadier-general if fortune and favouritism
                        supported him long enough. Mrs. Harbin could never be anything  more than a private in the ranks, so far as
                        his estimation of distinction was concerned. His daughter Ethel had, by
                        means of no uncertain favouritism, advanced a few points ahead of her
                        mother, and might have ranked as sergeant in the family corps.
                    Mrs. Harbin played cards, drank highballs, flirted with the younger officers,
                        got talked about with pleasing emphasis, and was as happy as any subordinate
                        could be. They had not even thought of such a thing as divorce, and the
                        whole army wondered and expressed disgust. The army's appetite for
                        scandal is surpassed only by its bravery in war. It is even hinted that the
                        latter is welcomed as a loophole for the former. War brings peace.
                    The arrival of the Harbins and a staff of gay young cadets fresh from the
                        banks of the Hudson put new life into the recluses. The regiment was to
                        remain at the Presidio for several weeks before sailing. One of the
                        lieutenants was a Chicago boy and an acquaintance of Graydon Bansmer. It was
                        from him that Jane learned that her sweetheart was a soldier in the service,
                        doubtless now in Luzon.
                    A week before the sailing of Colonel Harbin's transport Jane
                        suddenly announced that she had but one desire on earth, and that was to go
                        to Manila with her aunt. She did not present her plea with the usual claim
                        that she wanted to be of service to her country; she was not asking to go
                        out as a heroine of the ordinary type; instead, she simply announced that
                        she wanted to go as a temporary member of Colonel Harbin's family,
                        to endure their hardships and to enjoy  their
                        enthusiasms. Mrs. Cable recognised the true motive, however.
                    Her pleadings were in vain. The Harbins had lucklessly urged Jane to join
                        them. Telegrams flew back and forth across the continent and David Cable
                        came on to present his feeble objections.
                    When the great transport sailed away, Jane Cable was one of her passengers,
                        the ward of the regiment.
                    "It's just for a little while, dad," she said
                        wistfully at the dock. "A few months. I'll think of you
                        every minute I'm away."
                    The blood of the man in the service was calling to her. The ocean was between
                        them; the longing to be near him, to tread the same soil, had conquered in
                        the eternal battle of love. After all, no matter how the end was attained,
                        she was a creature of life, brought into the world to love and to be loved.
                        She put the past behind her and began to build a new futurea future in which
                        the adoration of Graydon Bansemer was the foundation. The hope that makes
                        all human averages was at the work of reconstruction; youth was the builder.
                        The months of destruction had not left a hopeless ruin as the heritage of
                        dead impulses.
                    The world grew brighter as the ship forged westward. Each day sent warmer
                        blood into her veins and a deeper light into her eyes. The new life was not
                        inspired by the longing to be his wife, but to see him again and to comfort
                        him. She would be no man's wife.
                    At last, one hot, soft morning in early July, the great transport slipped
                        past Corregidor and turned  its nose across
                        Manila bay, past Cavite, toward the anchorage which ended the long voyage.
                        The city of Manila lay stretched out before themManila, the new American
                        capital.
                    The troops were marched off to quarters and the Harbins, with Jane Cable,
                        repaired at once to the Oriente, where they were to live prior to taking a
                        house in Ermita or San Miguel. The campaign was not being pushed vigorously
                        at this time; it was the rainy season. Desultory fighting was going on
                        between the troops and the insurgents; there were numerous scouting and
                        exploring expeditions into the enemy's country. The famous round
                        robin of the correspondents had been sent to the United States by this time,
                        taking severely to task the army censorship which prevented the real
                        condition of affairs from reaching the deluded public. The situation was
                        much worse on the island of Luzon than anyone at home could have imagined.
                        But little truth escaped the vigilant wisdom of the arbitrarians. It was not
                        until later on, however, that the effects of the round robin were felt in
                        headquarters at Manila; when that time came the Ayuntamiento in the walled
                        city was not a pleasant retreat for the newspaper men who had dared.
                    A week elapsed before Jane could find the opportunity to make inquiries
                        concerning the whereabouts of Graydon Bansemer. Her thoughts had been of
                        nothing else; her eagerness had been tempered by the diffidence of the
                        over-zealous. She and pretty Ethel Harbin had made life endurable for the
                        gay young officers who came over on the ship; the pretty wives of  certain captains and lieutenants had small
                        scope for their blandishments at close range. Flirtations were hard to
                        manage in space so small. The two girls were therefore in a state of siege
                        most of the time. The abject following fell away perceptibly when the
                        broader field of action on shore gave their married sisters a chance to
                        manoeuvre with some degree of security. A faithful few remained in train,
                        however. Ethel Harbin, like the ingenue in the play, had each finger
                        clumsily but tightly wrapped with a breathing uniform of blue. It must be
                        admitted in shame, however, that she changed the bandages often and without
                        conscience or ceremony.
                    Jane's admirers were in love with her. She was not the sort to
                        inspire idle fancieseither in married or unmarried men. In any event, it
                        looked a long time to these chaps before they could get back to the States,
                        and she was worth while.
                    Perhaps her most devoted admirer was Lieutenant Bray. Good-looking and coming
                        from an excellent Southern family, he was a great favourite with all. Jane
                        liked him better than any of the rest; she would have liked him still better
                        had he been able to resist a tendency to boast of the stock from which he
                        had sprung. The knowledge of her disadvantages in life, the contrast between
                        their respective positions, all tended to emphasise the irony of fate; and
                        she often found herself wondering how this sprig of true aristocracy would
                        conduct himself if he discovered that, after all, she was only a foundling.
                    
                    It was Lieutenant Bray who made inquiries at general  headquarters and found, after considerable trouble, that
                        Graydon Bansemer's company was in the north, subject to the
                        requirements of Young, chief of scouts.
                    Irksome were the lazy summer months for Jane. She tired of the attentions of
                        men; she sickened with longing and anxiety. Day after day she prayed that
                        the troops in the north might be relieved; she watched for the order that
                        would call for their return from the wet lands above. Sickness was prevalent
                        among the fighting corps; the wet season had undermined the health of many.
                        Constant news came down to Manila of the minor engagements, and she looked
                        at every report for news of Graydon. Colonel Harbin, occasionally, had
                        private advices from the north. She heard of Graydon's bravery more
                        than once and glowed with pride. Down in her tired, anxious heart she was
                        wondering if it were possible for her to go to the front in any capacity.
                    At last, with October, came the waning of the rainy season. November brought
                        active fighting. A general movement of the troops was directed against
                        Aguinaldo. In his prime, as a leader, he controlled the north, and his
                        capture was imperative. Lawton and Young began operations on the right;
                        McArthur on the centre; with Wheaton pushing forward on the extreme left.
                        The insurgents fell back from Tarlac. There were many big fights at San
                        Jacinto and other places now famous in history.
                    The Red Cross society held forth at Malolos, reaching gradually into the
                        country north. Sick and wounded men came into the hospitals daily and in
                        larger  numbers than one would have supposed.
                        The villages or barrios all along the line of advance saw their convents
                        turned into hospitals; as fast as possible the nurses were hurried up to
                        them. Men and women in this noble service did heroic, faithful work both for
                        the white and the brown men who went down. From the field hospitals the men
                        were taken to the convents and treated until they were able to be moved to
                        Manila.
                    Further north fled Aguinaldo and the Filipinos. Wheaton was ordered to cut
                        off his retreat; Young was killed; Cunningham took charge of the scouts who
                        scoured the country. Parties of ten or fifteen picked men fell out in
                        advance of the main body, seeking to develop the enemy and his defences.
                        These brave fellows attracted the hidden fire of ambush, exposed themselves
                        to all the treacheries of warfare, and afterwards were mustered out with a
                        kind word from the department. They were the men who tested the territory.
                        It was with one of these scouting parties that Graydon Bansemer ventured far
                        into the enemy's country early in November.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE CHASE OF PILAR
                    GREGORIO DEL PILAR,
                        the picturesque Filipino leader, about whom so much has been written in
                        praise, by the war correspondents, was leading his men back into the
                        dangerfields, inviting the American pursuers into every trap which his
                        crafty brain could devise. History tells of Pilar's call to arms.
                        He was attending a great ball in Dagupan, given in honour of his approaching
                        nuptials. In the midst of the festivities a messenger dashed in with the
                        news that the American troops were closing in on Tarlac, the
                        insurgents' seat of government. Pilar rushed from the ballroom and
                        made his way to the head of his command. His parting from the bride-to-be is
                        pathetically described by many of the writers who were in the islands at the
                        time. There was no more daring, romantic character in all the Philippines
                        than young Pilar. Educated, refined, clever and attractive, he was a
                        favourite with all, admired by friend and foe alike.
                    Captain Groce, with a company of infantry, was following him closely and
                        doggedly into the fastnesses far to the north. Village after village was
                        devastated by the white troops, always a few hours after the wily Pilar had
                        evacuated. Amigos laughed in their deceptive sleeves at the Americans and
                        misdirected them with impunity. In eight cases out of ten the amigo wore  arms underneath his garment of friendship and
                        slew in the dark whenever opportunity arose. Graydon Bansemer was one of
                        this doughty, eager company which blazed the way into the hills. Close
                        behind came the bigger and stronger forces, with guns and horse, and the
                        hospital corps. It was the hunt of death for Aguinaldo and Pilar.
                    Shortly after daybreak, one morning, a slim, black figure crept out from
                        among the trees and gave the countersign to the challenging sentry. He was
                        soon on his way to the Captain's headquarters bearing news of
                        importance. The brown-skinned scout had travelled all night over a hazardous
                        route, and he was more than welcome. He brought news that Pilar's
                        men were off to the east and the north, well intrenched and prepared to fall
                        upon the Americans when they advanced blindly into the trap laid for them.
                        The newspaper men pricked up their ears, and at once looked to a box of
                        carrier pigeons which formed a most important part of their pilgrimage. A
                        fight was at hand, doubtless an important meeting of the clashing forces.
                        The whole army was waiting for intelligence of Pilarwaiting with little less
                        anxiety than that which attached itself to the pursuit of Aguinaldo.
                    Captain Groce ordered Sergeant Connell with a picked squad to reconnoitre.
                        They scurried off in advance of the company with instructions to locate the
                        elusive enemy, and open up the secret of his position. Supposedly, Pilar was
                        ten miles off among the rocky foothills which guarded the pass through the
                        mountains. As usual, Bansemer was one of the scouts. He snatched  his rations with the others and went forth
                        eagerly to court the danger and the excitement that was promised. For days
                        they had had no fighting worthy the name. Amigos everywhere, villages
                        peopled only by women and children, treacherous peacefulness on every side;
                        this had been their encounter: an occasional rifle shot from the rice
                        fields, a crackle of guns far ahead, a prisoner or two who had not been
                        quick enough in transforming himself from combatant to friend, that was all.
                        Now, there seemed to be real fighting ahead.
                    Pilar was known to have many mengood soldiers all of them. The native scout
                        gave close and accurate directions as to his position; it remained for
                        Connell's men to draw him out, if possible. Captain Groce and the
                        remainder of his eager company did not march until long after the scouts
                        were on their precarious way.
                    Two hours after the party of eleven left the village, a Mauser bullet from
                        the clump of trees far to the right cut through the hat of one of the scouts
                        who was some distance in advance of his fellows. As he saw the scout stoop
                        to pick up his hat, Rogers turned to the man nearest him and remarked:
                    "They'll get him sure as shootin' some day if he
                        hikes along in that damn fool way."
                    It was no new experience for the scouts to find the quarry gone when they
                        reached the place where they expected to find him. Pilar's own
                        scouts had found that the ambuscade was destined to fail of its purpose, and
                        the wily leader drew back into the more accessible country. The scouting
                        party did not come in sight of the little brown soldiers. The occasional
                        crack of  a Mauser broke the silence of the
                        advance, keeping the Americans in active touch with the dangers that
                        surrounded them.
                    They found the deserted treanches and signs of recent occupation. The
                        insurgents had been gone from the position less than two hours. Treachery
                        faced the little squad of Americans on every side, but they did not falter.
                        Connell scattered his men and they stole carefully into the fastnesses,
                        finding on all sides evidences of hasty departure. Before noon they were far
                        up in the hills, everywhere met by the physical assurance that the enemy was
                        not far ahead of them. Behind them came Captain Groce and his men and the
                        two correspondents.
                    Amigos along the mountain road gave information that was not worth having. A
                        deserted village showed signs of the passage and finally there was proof
                        ahead that Pilar had stopped to give battle. He had reached his vantage
                        ground. Connell and his men drew back and waited. Nightfall came and with it
                        the spiteful crack of the Mauser rifle. A brawny trooper toppled over with a
                        great hole in his head. Pilar's pickets could see like cats in the
                        night. The native scout reported that the big village of Concepcion was not
                        far ahead; Pilar's men were making their stand before this rather
                        important stronghold.
                    "We'll get a scrap that is a scrap, boys," said
                        Connell, exultingly. "These fellows are going to put up a fight, at
                        last. They're like bees up yonder. We've got to fall back
                        on the company; if we don't, they'll chew us up before the
                        little captain can get to us."
                    
                    Too well did the men know the bellicose temperament of the big Irishman to
                        think of grumbling at such a command; yet, it was with a certain reluctance
                        which invariably accompanies a backward step that the men retired to meet
                        the advancing company.
                    Young Bansemer in his khaki uniform was not the immaculate, dbonnaire man of
                        the drawing-room. Service, though short, had been hard and gruelling. His
                        face was even handsomer with its rugged lines and set features. He was
                        thinner and browner; his eyes were clearer and a darker grey; his hair
                        seemed thicker and fairer than before; his figure more erect and sinewy. The
                        wistful look in his eyes seemed to betray hunger for action; his ever-ready
                        eagerness to be on the move told of his strength and of his weakness. He had
                        the lean, active bearing of the panther and the restless daring of that
                        lithe animal.
                    No man in the company had stood fire as valiantly as he. He courted the whiz
                        of the bullet, scoffed at the rigours of the march, and instinctively was a
                        good shot with the rifle. He bore no grudge against the department at home;
                        he had no grievance.
                    The officers recognised in him a man of parts, a man of station far above the
                        position which he had chosen in the army. He was a source of mystery to the
                        men of his own rank in the linethe ploughboys, the teamsters, the
                        roustabouts, and the ne'erdowells who had gone into the army from
                        choice or discretion. At first they had called him the
                        "dude," and had laughed at his white hands and clean jaws.
                        His indifference to their taunts annoyed them. One day he knocked  down the biggest bully of the lot'
                        and walked away without even waiting to see whether he could arise after the
                        blow. He simply glared at the next man who chaffed. It was enough. The
                        company held him in a new respect that forbade the reporting of the incident
                        to the officer of the day.
                    Every night before he lay down to sleep, in the rice field or the barrios, he
                        took from his pocket a leather case and gazed at the small portrait it
                        sheltered. No one had been permitted to see him in his devotions, for that
                        was what he called these sacred moments. His lean face, full of fierce
                        energy all day long, softened as his eyes devoured the dainty miniature.
                    On meeting their company, Connell reported the situation ahead, to his
                        superior officer; orders were given for the men to bivouac for the night in
                        a small village close at hand. That evening Bansemer was discovered leaning
                        against the corner of a nipa shack some distance from his comrades, smoking
                        silently while they talked and made merry behind him. He seldom joined in
                        the ribald but suppressed conversations of the men.
                    "Have you fellows ever noticed that he don't get any
                        letters from the Statesnever seems to expect any?" asked Johnny
                        Rogers, the one-time foundry man, who sat watching him. Graydon had not been
                        the subject of conversation, but all knew whom Johnny meant by
                        "he."
                    "I've noticed that, too," said Joe Adams.
                    "I got him sized up all right," said one of the Spurrier
                        boys. "His people don't know where he's at. That
                        feller's a swell at home an' he's had to skip
                        out. I'll  bet my breakfast his name
                        ain't Bansemer. An' if his people don't know
                        where he's at, how in thunder can they write to him? See what I
                        mean?"
                    "Think he's a bank cashier?" asked Sim Relander.
                    "Naw; it ain't money, it's some girl. I know these
                        swell guys," said Rogers. "You're right about his
                        people not knowin' where to write. He's a mystery, that
                        feller is. I'll tell what I think: his folks have fired him
                        outwon't recognise him. See? Disgraced 'em, an'
                        all that. That's why he ain't expectin'
                        nothin' from home. He knows he won't get it."
                    "I feel kind o' sorry for a feller like that,"
                        mused Tom Reagan. "I had a brother that had to skip once."
                    "That so? Did he ever come back?"
                    "I s'd say not. He ducked for good. Mother had a letter
                        from him couple o' months before I left home. He was in
                        Milwaukee."
                    "Aw, this Bansemer's not that sort. He's made
                        o' different stuff. Milwaukee? Holy Moses, it's only
                        eighty mile from Chicago!"
                    "Gee, I'd like to have a glass o' the goods that
                        made Milwaukee famous," sighed Joe Adams.
                    "I'd like a keg," said Jim Spurrier, with a
                        wistful look in his eyes.
                    "S'pose we'll ever see a glass o' beer
                        again?" asked the other Spurrier, solemnly.
                    "I'll bet Bansemer's wonderin' if
                        he'll ever taste champagne again."
                    "Ask him, Johnny."
                    "Hey, Bansemer. I've got a riddle for you. What  'u'd you sooner have right
                        now than a bottle of champagne?"
                    Graydon turned and sauntered slowly over to the group. He paused for a moment
                        in passing, a broad smile on his face.
                    "A pail of beer," said he.
                    "Good fer you!" shouted two or three vociferously. He
                        strode off to make ready for bed.
                    "He's all right," exclaimed Sim Relander
                        feelingly, as if that laconic reply had been the only thing necessary to
                        establish the young man's social standing.
                    "That feller's been out here only four months, an'
                        I'll bet they ain't any ten men in the Philippines
                        what's had as many clost calls as he's had," said
                        Johnny Rogers. "I was thinkin' about it to-day.
                        He's had more narrow escapes in tight places than"
                    "Well, the darned fool rushes right into 'em,
                        don't he? He ain't got no sense. Nobody ought to git out
                        where he can be shot at when there ain't no need. Take that blamed
                        fool trick o' his'n there at Tarlac. When he went back all
                        alone after the papers that Cap Groce dropped. I'll bet he was shot
                        at two hundred times."
                    "Well, he didn't get hit, did he? If he gets hit good
                        'n' proper once he won't be so keen about
                        showin' off," growled one of the men.
                    "Depends on where he's hit. Then, there was that time when
                        he clumb the hill back yonder and turned the fire o' the gugus
                        so's we could get up into the pass. He makes me think o'
                        Lawton. There's the boy for me. If we had a few more generals like
                        Lawton we'd put a crimp in these niggers so quick it would look
                        like  a spasm." Having delivered
                        himself of this safe prophecy, Mr. Rogers glared about him for opposition.
                        None forthcoming, he proceeded, with a satisfied snort, to refill his pipe.
                    "Lawton's makin' history, and don't you
                        forget it," observed Luke Hardy.
                    "He's from Indiana," piped up a homesick ploughboy
                        from the Hoosier State.
                    "Then, it'll be a historical novel," said the
                        gaunt young recruit from Grand Rapids. He was a cynic who had tried
                        newspaper work, and who still maintained that the generals did not have as
                        much intelligence as the privates.
                    "I'll never forget Bansemer when he first
                        enlisted," reflected Joe Adams. "He wanted to go out for a
                        cold plunge and a morning stroll, and then asked the sergeant where he could
                        get a good riding horse. He's not so keen about strolls these
                        days."
                    "He don't turn up his nose at things like he used to,
                        either."
                    "I don't see why the devil he keeps so clean,"
                        grumbled Adams. "I can't."
                    "I'll bet one thing," mused Rogers.
                        "He'll be a captain or something before this scrap is
                        over."
                    "He'll be a corpse, that's what he'll
                        be."
                    "It's my opinion he'd just as lief be shot as
                        not," said Relander. "The only trouble is that these
                        measly niggers can't hit anything they shoot at. If the darned
                        fools would only try to miss him, they'd get him sure. The devil
                        and Tom Walkerwhat's that?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE FIGHT IN THE CONVENT
                    "HALT! Who goes there!"
                    A shot rang out in the stillness of the night; it was answered at once by
                        another closer in. More shorts followed, gradually increasing to a fusillade
                        as the scouts and pickets came running back. Men sprang up from the ground,
                        but even as they did so another volley reached them, and three men dropped
                        with a groan and lay still. The alarm sounded clear from the bugle and
                        echoed back from the surrounding hills. A sharp command came from the throat
                        of the sergeant; the company seized the stacked rifles. Captain groce gave
                        another order; the formation to repel attack was made in an incredibly short
                        space of time. There was no disorder; no confusion. The little officer was
                        as cool as if on dress parade.
                    "Steady, men! Wait until they're nearer!"
                    They had not long to wait. From all sides a horde of shouting, firing men
                        were rushing on the little square.
                    "Steady, men!" was still his only command.
                    Then, when it seemed almost a physical impossibility to restrain their
                        itching fingers from pulling the triggers, the longed for word was given.
                    "Here they are! Now, then, boys, fire!"
                    Volley after volley rang out. the foremost of the  enemy fell at their feet. Hand to hand was the fighting; the
                        bayonets lunged with deadly effect, but seemed powerless to thrust the mass
                        back on itself. Men shot, hacked, stabbed and clubbed each other. It was a
                        whirl of uplifting and descending rifles and bolos.
                    Fierce oaths vied with the shrieks of the wounded for supremacy. The grunt of
                        men who slaughter; the gasps of the victims when the steel went home were
                        heard on all sides. At times the soldiers could not see on account of the
                        sweat and blood pouring from their faces; the very air was foul from the
                        steam from the living and the dead. They could not breathe; a sort of
                        vertigo overpowered them, and they only kept their feet by grappling with
                        the enemy.
                    To Bansemer, it seemed that all his life he had been doing nothing but
                        warding off and delivering blows. Fighting side by side with Rogers, he saw,
                        with horror, that the soldier's rifle had been torn from his hands,
                        and that he had no weapon to defend himself; but before he could see just
                        how it happened, this individual combat had altered its aspect: Rogers had
                        grabbed a Filipino's gun and was doing the clubbing. With renewed
                        zest Bansemer finished with the bayonet his own assailant, and saw the man
                        fall on top of poor Adams and Relander.
                    Suddenly there was an exultant yell from the enemy. Instinctively Bansemer
                        knew that one side of the square had given way. Quickly turning, he rushed
                        to give his aid, and just in time caught the arm of a native about to slash
                        him with a huge knife. With the two gripped hands high in the air struggling
                        for mastery, the adversaries  became separated
                        a bit from the rest of the chaotic mass of friend and foe, swaying out to
                        one side of the plaza, and under the walls of a convent. Bansemer was facing
                        it; and just at the moment that he felt his strength giving way and could
                        see a grin of triumph on the fiendish face, there came a flash and a report,
                        and his adversary fell at his feet. Glancing up to ascertain who had fired
                        the shot that had saved his life, he thought he saw a figure disappearing
                        from one of the windows. The incident acted as an inspiration. Gathering
                        together a few men, he reached the Captain's side and communicated
                        his plan. The opportunity was not to be lost. Groce gave an order; Connell
                        repeated it. Then interpreting a temporary lull in the murderous struggle as
                        their vantage, the men with a cheer, and dragging the field piece, broke for
                        the building; and by bayoneting and clubbing the insurgents out of the way
                        accomplished the dash with slight loss. The soldiers hurled themselves
                        against the stoutly barred door; it fell with a crash.
                    Guards were stationed and all openings and windows manned. Singularly enough,
                        these defensive actions seemed at least, temporarily unnecessary, for the
                        watchers peering out of the windows reported that the dead alone occupied
                        the recent field of battle. Not a single Filipino was to be seen on the
                        plaza.
                    Every village has its convent or barrios. Generally speaking, their size
                        corresponds in a certain ratio with the population. But this particular
                        building was an exception. Dimly lighted, it gave the impression of ranking
                        in size with many of those in far larger villages.  Immediately the thought came to the invaders that the church
                        might have sheltered the insurgent leaders. Aguinaldo or Pilar might have
                        directed the attack from inside these walls. Orders were given to search
                        every corner and crevice to ferret out concealed foes. A rear window was
                        open, proving that flight could have been by that means of egress. Bansemer
                        was almost positive that the bullet which had killed his assailant had come
                        from one of the upper windows, but whether from friend or foe, was
                        undeterminable. Was it possible that he had been mistaken? Had his eyes been
                        so blinded with the smoke of battle that they had played him false? Were
                        they not in a cunningly planned trap of some kind?
                    Considerably perplexed, Bansemer decided to keep on his guard. He was
                        ruthlessly searching the chancel when a deep groan caught his attention.
                        Presently, as he paused to listen, a dark figure leaped towards him from a
                        recess back of the altar. The flash of a pistol blinded him, and
                        momentarily, a sharp pain shot through his arm; but he recovered in time to
                        throw his tall frame forward upon the slight, almost indistinguishable
                        figure. There was a short struggle, and before his comrades could reach him
                        his adversary was safely pinned to the floor. A moment later the torches in
                        the hands of his friends were burning brightly above the figure of his
                        captivea slender boy who choked with terror and rage.
                    "Who the devil are you, my young friend?" asked Bansemer,
                        holding the boy at arm's length.
                    There was no answer from the tightly closed lips; and  Bansemer shook him a little roughly. Then, for the first time,
                        he perceived that he was not a Filipino. His skin was dark, but not the skin
                        of the native; the handsome, boyish face had regular features, European in
                        character.
                    "Spaniard?" inquired Bansemer, a trifle more gently; and
                        again the boy flashed a look of hatred into his captor's eyes.
                    "Look here, my young spalpeen," said Connell, gruffly;
                        "Filipino or Spaniard, if you want to save your hide,
                        you'd better answer questionsand no lies, do you hear?"
                    At this threat, a deep groan was heard to come from somewhere back in the
                        recesses of the chancel. The men were startled. Involuntarily, the boy cast
                        a furtive glance in that direction. Connell noticed it, and leaving the boy
                        with Bansemer, hurried away and soon was looking down into the face of a
                        prostrate man, young, but aged with emaciation.
                    "You must not touch him! Don't you see that he is
                        dying?" cried the boy piteously in broken English.
                    "He cannot fight youhe's dying;" and then, in a
                        perfect frenzy of rage to Bansemer: "Let me gopig!"
                    Not until afterwards did Bansemer recall that in the general excitement it
                        was the boy who dragged him along to the spot. And in spite of the solemnity
                        of the scene, there was something in his manner of delivering the insult
                        that amused rather than angered the American.
                    "Plucky little devil!" he said, half-aloud.
                    
                    Again the sick man groaned, tried to rise from the blankets and speak, but
                        only to fall back moaning. Connell cautioned him against exertion and
                        promised that no harm should come to either of them. While he reported the
                        discovery to Captain Groce, he had the man carried to another part of the
                        church and there made comfortable. For the first time now, Bansemer began to
                        notice the pain in his arm. Somewhat angrily, he turned to the boy:
                    "Come! Give an account of yourself! How came you here?"
                    "Prisoners," was the sullen answer.
                    "Of the Filipinos?" Bansemer asked, in surprise.
                    "Yes."
                    "Then why did you try to kill me?"
                    "I hate you both! We Spaniards, have we not as much to fear from
                        you? What difference does colour make in brutes?"
                    "By the holy apostles! you're a gritty, young
                        'un!" growled the returning sergeant.
                        "Who's the other chap?"
                    "My brotherhe's dying," said the boy, his voice
                        softening. "Holy Virgin, save him! For weeks we've been in
                        the hands of Aguinaldo's men. He's been so ill, all the
                        time; have you a doctor?"
                    "A surgeon will probably be with us before long," was the
                        sergeant's evasive reply.
                    Bansemer looked searchingly at Connell. What he saw in the other's
                        eyes caused him a sharp pang of grief. Both men turned their faces away for
                        a moment, and it was with a gulp that Connell continued:
                    
                    "Your brother will have the best of care if we get out of this mess.
                        You are both safe. We are not fighting the Spaniards;" and then,
                        pertinently: "So these were Aguinaldo's men?"
                    "Yes, he was here directing the fight," the boy answered.
                    "Aguinaldo here!" This and other ejaculations of surprise
                        and anger burst in chorus from every throat; but as suddenly they were
                        followed by expressions of chagrin. For, by contrasting the present
                        situation with that which they had anticipated, this information had
                        succeeded in intensifying their mortification.
                    But notwithstanding his share of the universal disappointment, a hasty
                        reflection of preceding events convinced Graydon that personally he had
                        little ground for complaint against the late occupants of the convent. For
                        unintentional as undoubtedly had been the act through which at the very
                        point of death his existence had been preserved, there was no evidence to
                        refute the hypothesis that the shot which had killed his assailant in the
                        plaza had been fired by one of the insurgents under cover.
                    "Great Scott!" was the exclamation to which he gave
                        utterance. "Once more, I suppose, I owe my life to the blundering
                        marksmanship of a Filipino!"
                    This half-hearted acknowledgment of his strange indebtedness educed from his
                        companions no recognition other than a puzzled stare from the sergeant and
                        an enigmatical smile on the face of the young Spaniard. Connell proceeded
                        with his examination:
                    "Why did they leave you here?"
                    
                    "They had no time to take us with them when you broke in,"
                        was the boy's answer. "Aguinaldo was on his way to some
                        village where his family is in hiding. The scouts told him of your presence;
                        then he determined not to wait for Pilar, but to surprise you. We never
                        rested day or night. My poor brotherhow he suffered!"
                    "Yes, yes, but why are they carrying you on a march like
                        this?"
                    "My brother is the only man who knows where the Spanish gold was
                        hidden when our war was endedI mean, the gold that came up with guns and
                        ammunition. Aguinaldo is looking for the hiding place. My father, a high
                        officer in the Spanish Army, died of the fever last winter. We were stolen
                        from our house in Manila by Aguinaldo's men, and have been going
                        from place to place ever since. We have not told of the hiding place. The
                        Americans do not need gold, no?" The boy laughed sarcastically.
                    "How many men has Aguinaldo?"
                    "Three hundred or more. I would advise you to look out for Pilar.
                        He, too, may come at any moment."
                    Scarcely had the words left his mouth when a storm of yells came from outside
                        the convent; and immediately the boy rushed to his brother's side.
                    "Great Caesar, there's a thousand of them!" cried
                        Rogers.
                    Instantly every man made for the position assigned to him. The gun was in
                        readiness. Outside, the Mausers rattled, bullets coming from all quarters
                        and  thumping sharply against the opposite
                        walls with a patter that warned the Americans against standing erect.
                    Occasionally, a scout would peep from a window and take a shot into the
                        darkness, but these ventures were few. All lights were extinguished; the men
                        fired at the spots from which burst the flames of rifles, then dropped
                        suddenly. After a while the firing of the Filipinos dwindled into a shot now
                        and them.
                    "Keep low! They don't dare risk a charge! Be ready to
                        defend the door!" Captain Groce commanded.
                    The night wore on, and, with the cessation of hostilities, confidence
                        increased. Reinforcements were not far off, and it did not seem possible
                        that the sounds of battle could not be heard. The men, worn out by the
                        exciting events of the day, were generally silent; Sergeant Connell,
                        however, was an exception.
                    "Get us! Not a bit of it!" he was saying. "The
                        dirty, little cowards! Major March will be here in the shake of a dead
                        lamb's tail."
                    An hour later Bansemer, his rifle in hand, sitting near one of the windows,
                        suddenly felt someone tugging at his arm. Turning, he saw the Spanish boy.
                    "Won't you come and help me to carry my brother behind the
                        stone altar wall?" he was saying. "He is exposed to the
                        bullets and cannot move himself."
                    "Willingly!" and Graydon followed his lead. As if he was a
                        child, he picked up the gaunt Spaniard and carefully bore him to the place
                        of shelter. But despite all that he could do to hide his suffering, the pain
                        in his arm, which the removal of the man had increased,  was such, for a moment, that he felt faint and staggered. The
                        boy was quick to notice it, and quickly asked:
                    "What is the matter? Wounded?"
                    "It's nothingmerely a scratch."
                    "Oh, I knowwhy, it's your armand I" The
                        boy's face crimsoned with shame and contrition. Through the
                        semi-darkness the blush escaped Graydon's notice, but not so the
                        truly feminine, little shriek of dismay, as he touched and felt the wet
                        sleeve.
                    "It was I who did it! Oh, how can you ever forgive me?"
                    Graydon, dumbfounded, stared in wonder.
                    "What?" he exclaimed; "you're a
                        girl?"
                    "YesI'm his sister," pointing to the dying man;
                        then, with some embarrassment: "These clothes? They are the only
                        ones they would give me. You see a girl would have been a burden; a boy none
                        at all. Do you think that had I been a man you could so easily have
                        overpowered me? No!"
                    The slim, little figure drew itself up straight and defiant before him.
                        Despite the loose, ugly garments of the Filipinos, Graydon noticed, for the
                        first time, that the figure was perfectly moulded and high-bred. She swept
                        off the wide hat the wore, and the man saw a mass of dark hair done up
                        tightly on her head. But even while he gazed her mood changed; she became
                        subserviently anxious and begged him to let her attend to his arm. She
                        pleaded so hard that, to please her, he yielded. Water was obtained from
                        somewhere; the slight flesh wound washed; and then, disappearing into  the darkness, to his amazement she returned
                        almost instantly with some bandages and dressed his arm.
                    While this surgical operation was going on, Graydon, for the life of him,
                        could not resist the temptation to ask her again why she had tried to shoot
                        him. At first, so terribly in earnest did she take the question and beg for
                        mercy, that he smiled at her; and then, seeing his amusement, she said,
                        coquettishly:
                    "How could I possibly have known that you were so nice? Besides, I
                        had always heard you Americans referred to as brutes."
                    Graydon laughed, then suddenly his face became very grave. The realisation of
                        her terrible situation had dawned upon him. A woman among a crowd of rough
                        soldiers! Her brother and protector dying! And all surrounded by hordes of
                        savage enemies who at any moment might kill them! The thought dismissed all
                        pleasantry from his mind. Something must be done, and at once. Presently, he
                        asked:
                    "What is your name?"
                    "My father was Colonel Ramos Jose Velasquez; that also is my
                        brother's name, except that he is not an officer. I am Teresa
                        Fortune Velasquez. My mother was Englisha sister of Sir William Fortune. She
                        is dead. For ten years we have lived in Manila."
                    "You won't mind if I call the sergeant, will you?"
                        The girl nodded a slightly bewildered assent as Graydon moved rapidly
                        towards the others. Shortly, he returned with the gallant Irishman.
                    "Senorita," began Connell, mopping his forehead and
                        assuming his most polite manner; "you are perfectly  safe with us, and as quickly as possible your
                        brother and yourself shall be sent back to Manila. You are a brave slip of a
                        girl, and we boys respect bravery in whatever dressboy or girl."
                    She looked at him in grateful surprise and her lips trembled.
                    "But I am not your friend?"
                    "Possibly, seorita;" he bowed low with almost
                        Chesterfieldian grace; "but we are your
                        friends."
                    Outside, once more the Mausers were rattling, and Connell, with a word of
                        parting hastily took his leave. Graydon, on the point of returning to his
                        post, was prevented by the girl.
                    "You were gentle with me even when I tried toDon't risk
                        your life there. Shoot from that narrow gate," pointing aloft;
                        "it's not so exposed."
                    Bansemer dragged an altar chair up to the grated window and perched himself
                        upon it. The girl sat below him, holding her brother's head in her
                        lap. He was groaning and crying out to the soldiers to kill him rather than
                        permit him to fall into the hands of the natives again.
                    Suddenly there was a great commotion, and crashing of timbers in the front
                        part of the church, followed by shouts and the rushing of feet. Graydon
                        dropped from his perch and ran forth into the chancel. As he did so the
                        banging of rifles close at hand deafened him. In an instant he saw what had
                        happened. The Filipinos had charged the door and had forced it. They were
                        crowding their way into the church in the face of the deadly
                        Krag-Jorgensens. The chapel was lighted,  but
                        not from the inside. Cunning insurgents, in the shelter of the walls, were
                        holding great torches just outside of the windows. Graydon could see his
                        comrades firing at the door from behind every conceivable barrier. Without
                        hesitation he dashed down the aisle and into the thick of the fray near the
                        door.
                    The struggle was brief but fierce. The merciless fire of many Mausers on the
                        outside opened a way through the small band of defenders, and the rush of
                        the besiegers was successful. Through the door and windows they came,
                        swarming like bees. Many of them fell to rise no more, but their comrades
                        took an eye for an eye. Once confident soldiers toppled over dead until but
                        few were left. Bansemer led them in a quick dash for the chancel, hoping
                        that the enemy would not dare attack a place so sacred.
                    Captain Groce and other officers had fallen; Connell became the leader of the
                        remnant. Bansemer stood squarely in front of the altar and blazed away at
                        the horde of Filipinos as they advanced. They shot at him wildly and without
                        effect; bullets crashed into the altar decorations behind him. He stood
                        there as one protected by God, unharmed in the shelter of the cross.
                    Behind him his comrades cowered and cursed in their dread of certain death.
                        He heard the shrill cries of the girl urging him to protect her brother. She
                        was calling upon God and the Holy Virgin to aid and shield him. And he stood
                        there with a crazy joy in his heart, savagely pulling the trigger of the
                        Krag-Jorgensen. Finally the hammer snapped with no report. As he  turned back in consternation, a small figure
                        leaped to his side with a fresh weapon.
                    He shouted a word of warning to her and wheeled again to confront the foe.
                        Even as he raised the gun a great shout arose above the noise of conflict.
                        There was a mighty rush, a new banging of guns, a sudden stampede andthe
                        chapel was filled with men in khaki!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    TERESA VELASQUEZ
                    GREAT was the disappointment of Major March and his men
                        when they found that neither Aguinaldo nor Pilar had fallen into their
                        hands. Although they had come just in time to prevent the complete
                        annihilation of the little company, the leaders had escaped with the remnant
                        of their surprised forces. Scores of Filipinos were captured, dozens were
                        killed and wounded. Eight of the dashing scouts who went out with Jerry
                        Connell gave up their lives in exchange for the final victory.
                    A small guard was left at the convent to care for the wounded, the bulk of
                        the command hurrying off at dawn to search for the routed Filipinos. Graydon
                        Bansemer was put in charge of the convent guard. A surgeon and the
                        application of "first aid to the injured" principles soon
                        transformed the convent into a well arranged hospital. Uncle Sam's
                        benevolence was also cheerfully extended to the wounded Filipinos. The days
                        of the "water cure" and "ungodly
                        butchery" had not yet come.
                    Young Velasquez died soon after daybreak. He had been dying for days. His
                        sister's grief was pathetic in the extremeaye, demoralising, for it
                        struck deep into the hearts of soldiers who had scoffed at the lifeblood of
                        man, but could not brave the tears of a woman.
                    
                    Bansemer did all in his power of comfort and console her. It was to him that
                        she clung in her despair. He had been her captor; and yet it had been he who
                        stood forth in his might to defend her and the loved one who was dead. At
                        nightfall the dead were buried in that far-off wilderness, their humble
                        graves marked and recorded before the time when the government could come to
                        give other graves in other lands to these who had given their lives.
                        Velasquez was laid beside the Americans. Teresa, a shivering, sobbing little
                        figure in the garb of an insurgent soldier, was supported by big Graydon
                        Bansemer. There was no service except the short army ritual; there was no
                        priest or pastor; there was but one real mournera pretty, heart-broken girl
                        who lay for hours beside the rude mound on the hillside.
                    Word came back at nightfall that the detachments were to form a junction at
                        one of the big villages westward in two days. The instructions were that the
                        wounded Filipinos should be left in the village, where native women and
                        doctors would care for them.
                    "What in thunder are we to do with the girl?" was the
                        question that came from the officer in command. More than one man scratched
                        his head thoughtfully and looked toward the disturbing element that had come
                        into the army. She was sitting alone and disconsolate in front of the
                        church.
                    "There's no way to send her back to her friends, and we
                        can't leave her here," said Bansemer.
                    "But, gee whiz, we can't take her on a hike like
                        this," protested the sergeant. "She'll be in the
                        way, and  she'll give out, and all
                        that. Besides, what would we do with a woman around all the time?"
                    "I fancy she can hike all right," said Graydon.
                        "Major March wouldn't expect us to leave her behind. That
                        would be heartless."
                    By the time the party and guides was ready to start on its forced march, the
                        opinion, unanimously expressed was that Teresa Velasquez should go forward
                        also, come what might. She had pleaded so hard and so effectually that the
                        men were fairly swept off their feet in a storm of sympathy.
                    "If she gives out we'll carry her," roared a
                        deeply impressed young man with long red whiskers.
                    "And when we get up to the command we'll make them derned
                        correspondents take turn about walkin', so she can ride a pony all
                        the time. They've got no business ridin',
                        anyhow."
                    And so with rosy confidence in the fitness of things and a just belief in the
                        charity of Major March, the detachment marched out into the hills, the ward
                        of the company trudging bravely beside the tall and envied Mr. Bansemerwho,
                        by the way, aside from being politely attentive, did not exhibit any undue
                        signs of exaltation.
                    The presence of a womanand a very pretty one at that, with a sadness in her
                        eyes that was appealingserved only to send his thoughts bounding back to the
                        girl he had left behind. He grew more and more morose and silent as the day
                        wore on; at times the tired, lonely girl at his side lagged and cast
                        wondering, piteous glances at him. Her woman's intuition told her
                        that  this man did not belong where he was; it
                        told her also that he had a secret and that one of her sex was deeply
                        involved.
                    The events of the next two weeks are of small consequence in this narrative,
                        which deals not so much with the history and mystery of the campaign in the
                        fall of '99 as with the welfare and emotions of a single soldier at
                        the front. Aguinaldo and Pilar had become refugees by this time, hunted and
                        hounded from place to place with relentless fervour. Pilar was somewhere in
                        the hills with his men, the pride of the insurgent forces;
                        Aguinaldo's remnant had scurried off in another direction, and
                        General Tono was on the coast with what was left of the scattered force.
                    The net about Gregorio del Pilar was being drawn in and tightened. The
                        closing week in November saw him driven to the last extremity. The tragedy
                        of Tilad Pass was near at hand.
                    Teresa Velasquez never faltered, never tired. She proved herself to be no
                        incumbrance. Day after day, the officer in command expected the expedition
                        which would take her back to Manila; forces came up from the south, but none
                        were ready to go back.
                    She was an inspiration to the camp. Men who had forgotten their manners
                        completely brushed them up and danced attendance upon the girl in the
                        Filipino uniform.
                    Every man prayed for opportunity to do brave deeds, and when chance came she
                        was permitted to witness heroism that savoured of the boyhood malady known
                        as "showing off."
                    
                    The reserved, but considerate Bansemer was her closest friend and confidant.
                        One evening, as they sat side by side watching the preparations for supper,
                        she turned suddenly and announced that she knew he was dying of love for
                        someone. He started and his hand trembled.
                    "Tell me about her," she commanded. There was a piquancy, a
                        gay impelling force in this girl that grief and hardship had not been strong
                        enough to conquer. Her hours of sadness were spent alonehours when she was
                        supposed to sleep, but instead, lay awake and sobbed without tears.
                    "Nonsense!" said Graydon. "Why do you think that
                        of me?"
                    "Because everybody else thinks it," she said; "and
                        because I am a very wise person. The men are not so charitable as I, seor.
                        They say that you joined the army because of some woman whom you could not
                        marry. I agree with them, except that it is she who would not marry you.
                        Forgive me, if I have hurt you."
                    Impulsively, she put her hand upon his, her dark eyes full of pleading. The
                        touch of her hand did not send a thrill through him; such contact, however,
                        caused the blood to tingle in the quick veins of the girl. He merely sat and
                        stared into space. After a moment, she drew her hand away.
                    "I am sorry," she said.
                    "There is a girl, Teresa," he said shortly.
                    "Yes, I know. Tell me about her."
                    "I can't," he exclaimed, bitterly. He arose and
                             walked quickly away. Teresa's
                        dark eyes followed him in pity and wonder, aye, affection. Then she shook
                        her head sadly and turned her attention elsewherenot piqued, much to her own
                        amazement.
                    Reinforcements came up two days later with the word that the commander in
                        chief expected the campaign against Pilar to end within a week, and that
                        hard fighting was ahead. The Red Cross people were following hard upon the
                        heels of the regiment and field hospitals were to be established. This
                        information was so suggestive of fierce and final combat that the men felt
                        their sluggish blood leap wildly into life.
                    Every man in the band of newcomers was singing the praises of a wonderfully
                        beautiful Red Cross nurse. The stories told of her charms were varied, but
                        none lacked enthusiasm. Some said she was the daughter of a rich magnate
                        come to do service in the cause of humanity; others were sure she was a
                        great and beautiful actress who was sacrificing everything to conspicuous
                        advertising. All, however, were agreed in the praise of her noble beauty.
                    The little detachment on guard turned up its collective nose and proudly
                        pointed to Teresa Velasquez.
                    "Look at that," said Bob Spurrier. "Can she stack
                        up with the hiking queen? Our girl is real quality. She's no common
                        American. She's a grandee's daughter. There's
                        royal blood in her. By thunder, gentlemen, she's blood kin to
                        little Alfonso."
                    Teresa sought shelter from the curious though admiring eyes of the fresh
                        arrivals.
                    "I don't like these new soldiers," she complained
                        to  Graydon. "I wish they had not
                        come. They talk of this beautiful nurse and they laugh at me. Oh, I wish I
                        had something else to wear."
                    "Don't worry, little girl, you're worth ten
                        nurses," said he.
                    "Alas, though I am dressed as a man, I do not feel as bold as
                        one," she lamented.
                    The next day reinforcements came up and the whole command advanced upon Tilad
                        Pass, where Pilar, at last, had been cornered. On the second of December a
                        desperate conflict took place. Pilar was intrenched in the Pass near the
                        celebrated rock known as El Obispo "the Bishop." His
                        resistance for a time was valorous and deadly. Corporal Parry saw him mount
                        his horse behind the barricade, six hundred yards away. Parry was the best
                        marksman in the regiment, and turning to his chief officer, asked if he
                        should take a shot at him.
                    He fired and Pilar fell, face downward; and the Americans crushed the little
                        band of insurgents. Gregorio Del Pilar was dead. His death in the great
                        hills, after a most courageous battle against an overwhelming force, brought
                        to an end a life that would have been worth much to the islands in after
                        years. In his pockets were found valuable papers, letters and keepsakes. The
                        letters were from his sweetheart, Dolores Jos, who lived at Dagupan, and
                        they were tender in the extreme. Her lace handkerchief rested over his
                        heart.
                    When the Americans, victorious and jubilant, fell back to camp, they had no
                        small number of wounded to turn  over to the
                        tender mercies of the little company of Red Cross nurses and the surgeons.
                    One of the most dangerously injured was Graydon Bansemer. He was one of the
                        first to cross the danger line; a Mauser ball from a distant hill tore
                        through his side, leaving an ugly gaping wound that foretold certain
                    death.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE BEAUTIFUL NURSE
                    WHEN the beautiful and mysterious nurse whose fame had
                        gone up with the soldiers into Tilad Pass, arrived with others to take
                        charge of the Red Cross hospital, on the day following the battle, she found
                        the man she had been longing to see for many weary, heartsick months. She
                        found him dying.
                    To the surprise of the enthralled command, she fell in a dead swoon when she
                        looked upon the pallid face of Graydon Bansemer. She had gone eagerly from
                        one pallet to another, coming upon his near the last. One glance was enough.
                        His face had been in her mind for monthsjust as she was seeing it now; she
                        had lived in the horror of finding him cold in death.
                    It was Teresa Velasquez who first understood. She knew that
                        Bansemer's one woman had found him at last. Her heart leaped with
                        hatred for one brief instant, then turned soft and contrite. If she had
                        learned to care for the big American herself during the hard days when he
                        had been so tender, she also had learned that her worship was hopeless. She
                        had felt his yearning love for another; now she was looking upon that other.
                        While the attendants were bending over their unconscious companion, the
                        Spanish girl stood guard over the man who had been her guardian, the man
                        whose  life was going out before her
                        miserable, exhausted eyes.
                    Jane Cable stirred with returning life; Teresa was quick to see that words
                        not medicine would act as the restorative. She went swiftly to the American
                        girl's side and, clasping her hands, cried sharply into her half
                        conscious ears:
                    "He is not dead! He is alive! He needs you!"
                    The effect was magical. Life leaped into Jane's eyes, vigour into
                        her body. She recovered from the swoon as mysteriously as she had succumbed
                        to it. Her sudden breakdown had puzzled her companions. It is true that she
                        was new in the service; she had seen but little of death and suffering; but,
                        with all that, she was known to possess remarkable strength of purpose and
                        fortitude. That she should collapse almost at the outset of her
                        opportunities was the source of wonder and no little contempt among her
                        fellow workers. The words of the strange girl in men's clothing
                        opened the way to smart surmises. It was not long before everyone in the
                        command knew that the "beautiful Red Cross nurse" was not
                        wearing the garb of the vocation for the sake of humanity alonein fact, it
                        was soon understood that she did not care a straw for the rest of mankind so
                        long as Graydon Bansemer needed her ministrations.
                    Ignoring the principles of the cause she served, she implored the doctors to
                        confine their efforts to one man among all of them who suffered; she pleaded
                        and stormed in turn, finally offering fabulous bribes in support of her
                        demands. For the time being, she was  half
                        crazed with fear and dread, woefully unworthy of her station, partially
                        divorced from reason.
                    The more desperately wounded were left in the village with an adequate guard,
                        the rest of the command departing with Major March. A temporary hospital was
                        established in the convent. There were two doctors and four or five nurses,
                        with a dozen soldiers under command of Lieutenant Bray. It was while the
                        apparently dead Bansemer was being moved to the improvised hospital that
                        Jane presented herself, distraught with fear, to the young Southerner who
                        had so plainly shown his love for her. She pleaded with him to start at once
                        for Manila with the wounded, supporting her extraordinary request with the
                        opinion that they could not receive proper care from the two young surgeons.
                        Bray was surprised and distressed; he could not misunderstand her motive.
                    He had gone on caring for her without suspecting that there was or had been
                        another man; she had not confided in him during those weary, pleasant months
                        since they left San Francisco behind them. To learn the true situation so
                        suddenly and unexpectedly stunned his sensibilities; he found difficulty in
                        grasping the importance of the change an hour or two had made. He had fought
                        valiantly, even exultantly, in the Pass that morning, her face ever before
                        him, her words of praise the best spoils of the victory, should they win. He
                        had come down to the village with joy and confidence in his heart, only to
                        find that he was not, and could never be, anything to her, while the life or
                        memory of this fallen comrade stood as a barrier.
                    
                    Bray's hour following the discovery that she had deliberately sought
                        out and found this stricken private was the most bitter in his life. His
                        pride suffered a shock that appalled him; his unconscious egotism, born of
                        hereditary conquests, revolted against the thought that his progress toward
                        her heart was to be turned aside by the intervention of a common soldier in
                        the ranks. Gentleman though he was, he could not subdue the feeling of
                        exultation that came over him when she approached with her plea. He knew
                        that it was a base sense of power that made him feel that he could punish
                        his pride's offender by either denying or granting her appeal. The
                        attitude of self-sacrifice appealed to his wounded vanity; he was tempted to
                        profit by an exhibition of his own pain and generosity.
                    He went with her into the convent and to the pallet on which was stretched
                        the long, still figure of Graydon Bansemer. A surgeon was standing near by,
                        studying the grey face with thoughtful eyes. Bray's first glance at
                        the suffering face sent a thrill of encouragement through his veins. The man
                        was beyond all human help; the grip of death was already upon his heart.
                    Then, the true manhood that had been his, through all generations, revolted
                        against the thought that was in his mind. The man should not die if it was
                        in his power to prevent; no matter what the cost to him, he would give his
                        aid to her and hers. He tried to put aside the feeling that death was
                        certainand very soon, at that; he sought honestly to justify himself in the
                        hope that Bansemer's life could be saved, after all.
                    
                    "Leave me alone with the doctor, Miss Cable," he said. She
                        was kneeling beside the man on the cot. Without a word, but with a dark
                        appealing look into the Virginian's eyes, she arose and went
                        swiftly away.
                    "What chance has this poor fellow, doctor?"
                    "None whatever, sir. He'll be dead in an hour. I'm
                        sorry, on her account. Strange case. I've heard she belongs to a
                        fine family in the East. Poor devil, he's got an awful hole in his
                        side."
                    "Have you made a careful examination? Is it possible that no vital
                        spot has been touched?"
                    "We haven't had time for a thorough examination; it was
                        better not to waste the time on him when there were others whom we have a
                        chance to save."
                    "You will oblige me, doctor, by giving him the quickest and most
                        careful attention. There may be a chance. He is one of the bravest men in
                        the army. Don't let him die if there is a chance for him. Misserthe
                        nursehas asked if he can be moved to-day."
                    "No. But wait; I don't see why, if it will satisfy her. He
                        will die anyhow, so why not tell her that we will start south with him
                        to-morrow?"
                    "It isn't fair. She should be told the truth."
                    "He'd die, that's allany way you put it."
                    "You will make the examination?"
                    "Yes, inat once."
                    "But youyou feel that it is hopeless?"
                    "Certainly, sir."
                    "I'mI'm sorry," said Bray, walking away.
                        The doctor looked after him with a queer expression in his eyes and then
                        called his confrre to the pallet.
                    
                    Bray found Jane waiting for him outside the door; Teresa Velasquez was
                        standing beside her, holding her hand.
                    "What does he say?" cried Jane, grey with anguish.
                    "He cannot be moved. There is nobut little hope, Miss Cable. They
                        are to make another examination."
                    "He must be saved! He must! Let
                        me go to him now. I will help. I will give my life to save his,"
                        she cried. Bray stood between her and the door, his arms extended.
                    "Don't go in now, I implore. Wait! There may be good
                        news."
                    "He is everything in the world to me!" she moaned.
                    "Come with me," whispered Teresa. Bray looked at the
                        Spanish girl, and a new light broke in upon his understanding. What was this
                        refugee to Bansemer? The answer shot into his brain like a flash and he
                        turned cold.
                    "Miss Cable, I think I understand your anxiety," he said,
                        his voice trembling. "Won't you let this young lady take
                        you away for half an hour or"
                    "But I am a nurse! Why should I be kept from him? I am here to care
                        for all of them," she protested.
                    "You are not fit to do duty just now," he said.
                        "Miss Cable, I understand why you are here. It is noble of you. I
                        am truly sorry that there is so little hope." He was leading her
                        away from the building, leaving Teresa standing there with her eyes fastened
                        upon the door with a look that could not be mistaken. "I would give
                        my own life to have his spared for your sake, Jane. Forgive me. I would
                        willingly give all I have in  life for you.
                        But I am afraid it is impossible to save him."
                    "Don't say that," she whispered.
                    "Youyou would be his wife?" he asked.
                    "No, that cannot be. I could not be his
                        wife."
                    "You meanhe is married?"
                    "No, no! not that. You can't understand. I can never marry
                        himnever!"
                    Bray struggled for a moment with the puzzle; his eyes went slowly to Teresa.
                        Then he suddenly understood why Jane Cable would not marry the man she had
                        come to find. He asked no questions of himself, but Teresa would have been
                        the result of every conjecture had he done so.
                    "He might better be dead," he thought, his eyes hardening.
                        "She's found him out. Gad, I hope" but he put it
                        from him.
                    Graydon Bansemer did not die within the hour, nor that day. The careful
                        examination of the surgeons gave little additional hope; it did, however,
                        reveal the fact that no vital organ had been destroyed or injured. The ball
                        had torn a great hole in his left side and had gone through the body.
                        Probing was not necessary. The flow of blood was frightful. There was a
                        spark of life left on which to build a frail hope, and they worked with new
                        interest.
                    The attention of everyone was directed to this tragic struggle; the efforts
                        of all were lent to the successful end. Jane Cable, dogged and tireless,
                        came to be his nurse, now that the life thread still held together. It is
                        not the purpose of this narrative to dwell 
                        upon the wretched, harrowing scenes and incidents of the wilderness
                        hospital. The misery of those who watched and waited for death; the dread
                        and suffering of those who gave this anxiety; the glow of spiritual light
                        which hovered above the forms of men who had forgotten their God until now.
                    The first night passed. There were sleepless eyes to keep company with the
                        faint moans and the scent of chloroform. Over the figure of Graydon Bansemer
                        hung the eager, tense face of Jane Cable. Her will and mind were raised
                        against the hand of death; down in her sould she was crying! "You
                        shall not die!" and he was living, living on in spite of death. The
                        still, white face gave back no sign of life; a faint pulse and an almost
                        imperceptible respiration told of the unbroken thread. Hoping against hope!
                    Dawn came, and night again, and still the almost breathless girl urged her
                        will against the inevitable. She had not slept, nor had she eaten of the
                        food they brought to her. Two persons, a soldier and a girl, stood back and
                        marvelled at her endurance and devotion; the harassed surgeons, new in
                        experience themselves, found time to minister to the seeming dead man, their
                        interest not only attracted by his remarkable vitality but by the romance
                        attached to his hope of living.
                    That night he moved, and a low moan came from his lips. The Goddess of Good
                        Luck had turned her face from the rest of the world for a brief instant to
                        smile upon this isolated supplicant for favour. Jane's eyes and
                        ears had served her well at last; she caught the change in him and her will
                        grasped the hope with more  dogged tenacity
                        than before. The word went out that there was a chance for him. Her vigil
                        ended when Bray came to lead her awayended because she dropped from
                        exhaustion.
                    The next morning, after a dead sleep of hours, she returned to his side. The
                        surgeon smiled and the nurse clasped her hands with tears in her eyes.
                        Bansemer was breathing thickly and tossing in delirum. It was as if he had
                        been lifted from the grave.
                    Lieutenant Bray was seated in front of the convent late that evening, moodily
                        studying his own emotions. Teresa, still attired as she had been for weeks,
                        hung about the chapel with the persistance of a friendless dog. He watched
                        her and pitied her, even as he pitied himself for the wound he was nursing.
                        What was to become of her? He called her to him.
                    "Seorita, they say he is better. Tell me, does it mean much to
                        you?"
                    "Oh, seor, he has been noble and good and honourable. If he lives I
                        shall always hold these weeks with him in absolute reverence."
                    "Then she does not understand?"
                    "She? What is there for her to understand? She loves him and he
                        loves her. That is enough."
                    "She says she will not marry him. There must be a reason."
                    The girl's face darkened instantly and her breath came quickly.
                    "Youyou think that I am the reason? Is it so? Because I am here in
                        these hateful clothes? You would say that to me? How dare you!"
                    
                    She burst out with tears of rage and shame and fled from his sight.
                    Jane came rapidly through the church door, out of the gloom and odour into
                        the warm sunshine and the green glow of the world, her face bright, her eyes
                        gleaming.
                    "He is conscious!" she cried. "He knows
                        me!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE SEPARATION OF HEARTS
                    WHEN Graydon Bansemer opened his eyes upon the world for
                        the second timeit was as if he had been born againhe looked up into the
                        eager, wistful face of Jane Cable. It was too much for her to expect that he
                        could see and understand at once; he would not know what had gone before,
                        nor why she was there. His feeble glance took in her face with lifeless
                        interest. Perhaps it was because he had seen her in that death-like dream;
                        perhaps his weakness kept him from true realisation. In any event, he did no
                        more than to allow the flicker of a smile to come into his eyes before he
                        closed them again. Breathlessly, she waited for the lids to lift once more.
                        She uttered his name softly, tenderly, time and again. As if hearing someone
                        calling from a great distance, he moved and again looked upward, the
                        consciousness of pain in his grey eyes. This time he stared hard at her; his
                        eyes grew brighter and then darkened with wonder. At last she saw the look
                        of surprise and joy and relief that she had been hungering for; he knew her
                        and he was beginning to understand.
                    If he heard her while she knelt and thanked God for this first great ray of
                        hope, he gave forth no sign. When she turned her eyes to his face again he
                        was  asleep. But she went forth into the day
                        with a song in her heart.
                    She looked about for Teresa. The girl was gone, no one knew whither. Bray
                        alone could say that she had started toward the thicket. He pointed out the
                        direction, but did not offer to accompany Jane when she hurried away to
                        carry the good news to the Spanish girl who had been her staunch helper
                        during the long vigil. Bray shook his puzzled head as he followed her with
                        his gaze. It had come to him suddenly that the Spanish girl was not the
                        solution to the puzzle, after all.
                    Jane found the slim boyish figure lying on the ground, deep in the wood. She
                        had been crying and made no attempt to subdue her emotions when the American
                        girl came up to her; instead, she bitterly poured out her woe into the ears
                        of the other. She told her of bray's insultas she termed his
                        unfortunate speculationand she told how it came about.
                    "I am a good girl, Miss Cable," she cried. "I am
                        of a noble familynot of the canaille. You do not believe it of me? No! He
                        had no right to accuse me. I was a prisoner; Seor Bansemer was my rescuer. I
                        loved him for it. See, I cannot help it, I cannot hide it from you. But he
                        is yours. I have no claim. I do not ask it. Oh!" and here her voice
                        rose to a wail of anguish, "can you not procure something else for
                        me to wear? These rags are intolerable. I hate them! I cannot go back there
                        unless I have"
                    "We can give you a few garments, dear," said Jane.
                    "Come! You shall wear the nurse's uniform. We are 
                        
                            "HIS FEEBLE GLANCE TOOK IN HER FACE WITH LIFELESS
                                INTEREST"
                        
                         to start on the long march to the coast
                        to-morrow. They say that all of the wounded can be moved
                        by that time."
                    It was three days, however, before the little company left the village and
                        began its slow, irksome march across the country toward the coast where the
                        ship was to pick up the wounded men and convey them to Manila. Native
                        carriers, cheerful amigos since the disaster to Pilar, went forward with the
                        stretchers, the hospital wagons and guard following. Travelling was
                        necesarily slow and the halts were frequent. There were occasional shots
                        from hidden riflemen, but there were no casualties. Food had been scarce;
                        the commissary was thinly supplied for the hard trip. Lieutenant Bray grew
                        strangely morose and indifferent. He was taciturn, almost unfriendly in his
                        attitude toward everyone.
                    The little company stopped to rest in a beautiful valley, beside the banks of
                        a swift stream. He watched Jane as she moved away from the stretcher which
                        held Bansemer, following her to the edge of the stream where she had come to
                        gaze pensively into the future.
                    "How is he?" he asked. She started and a warm glow came
                        into her cheek.
                    "He is doing nicely. If he can bear up until we reach Manila, he
                        will surely live. Are we going as rapidly as we should, Lieutenant
                        Bray?"
                    "Quite, Miss Cable. It isn't an easy march, you must
                        remember." After a long silence, he suddenly remarked:
                        "Miss Cable, I've got a rather shameful confession to
                        make. I've had some very base thoughts to  contend with. You may have guessed it or not, but I care a
                        great deal for youmore than for anyone else I've ever known. You
                        say he is to get well. For days I wished that he might die. Don't
                        look like that, please. I couldn't help it. I went so far, at one
                        stage, as to contemplate a delay in marching that might have proved fatal to
                        him. I thought of that way and others of which I can't tell you.
                        Thank God, I was man enough to put them away from me! Wait, please! Let me
                        finish. You have said you will not marry him. I don't ask why you
                        will not. I love you. Will you be my wife?"
                    She stared at him with consternation in her eyes. He had gone on so rapidly
                        that she could not check his rapid speech. Her hand went to her brow and a
                        piteous smile tried to force itself to her lips.
                    "I am sorry," she said at last. "I am sorry you
                        have spoken to me of it. I have felt for some time that youyou cared for me.
                        No, Lieutenant Bray, I cannot be your wife."
                    "I know you love him," he said.
                    "Yes, it is plain. I have not tried to hide it."
                    "You must understand why I asked you to be my wife, knowing that you
                        love him. It was to hear it from your own lips, so that I would not go
                        through life with the feeling, after all, that it might have been. Will you
                        tell me the reason why you cannot marry him? He must love you."
                    "Lieutenant Bray, he would marry me to-morrow, I think, if I were to
                        consent. It isn't that. It would not be right for me to consent.
                        You profess to love me.  I have seen it in
                        your eyesoh, I have learned much of men in the past few monthsand I
                        determined, if you ever asked me to marry you, to ask a question in return.
                        Do you really know who I am?"
                    He looked his surprise. "Why, the daughter of David Cable, of
                        course."
                    "No, I am not his daughter."
                    "His stepdaughter?"
                    "Not even that. You come from a proud Southern family. I do not know
                        who my parents were."
                    "Good Heaven, youyou don't mean you were a waif?"
                    "A waif without a name, Lieutenant Bray. This is not self-abasement;
                        it is not the parading of misfortune. It is because you have made the
                        mistake of loving me. If you care less for me now than you did before, you
                        will spread this information throughout the army."
                    "Believe me, I am not that sort."
                    "Thank you. Knowing what you now do, could you ask me to be your
                        wife?"
                    "Don't put it just that way," he stammered.
                    "Ah, I see. It was a cruel question. And yet it proves that you do
                        not love as Graydon Bansemer loves."
                    "Some day you may find out all about your parents and be happy. You
                        may have been abducted and" he was saying, his face white and wet.
                        Somehow he felt that he was chastening himself.
                    "Perhaps," she said quietly. "I might not have
                        told you this had not the story been printed in every  newspaper in the States just before I left. You see, I did not
                        know it until just a few months ago. I thought you might have read of me. II
                        am so notorious."
                    "Jane, dear Jane, you must not feel that way!" he cried, as
                        she started quickly away. "It's" But she turned
                        and motioned for him to cease. There were tears in her eyes. He stood stock
                        still. "She's wonderful!" he said to himself, as
                        she walked away.
                    "Even now, I believe I couldPshaw! It ought not to make any
                        difference! If it wasn't for my family What's in a name,
                        anyway? A name" He started to answer his own question, but halted
                        abruptly, squared his shoulders and then with true Southern, military
                        bearing strode away, murmuring:
                    "A name is something; yes, family is everything."
                    Jane went at once to Graydon. His great grey eyes smiled a glad welcome. She
                        took his hand in hers and sat upon the ground beside him, watching his face
                        until they were ready to resume the journey.
                    "Would it not be better if he were to die?" she found
                        herself wondering, with strange inconstancy to her purpose. "Why
                        could it not have been I instead of he? How hard it will be for us to live
                        after this. Dear, dear Graydon, ifif I only were different from what I
                        am."
                    Not a word of his father's conduct toward her, not a word of blame
                        for the blow his father had struck. She held him to no account for the
                        baseness of that father; only did she hold herself unfit to be his wife. All
                        of the ignominy and shame fell to her lot, none to the well-born son of the
                        traducer.
                    
                    Fortune and strength went hand in hand for the next two days and the
                        famished, worn-out company came to the coast. The wounded men were
                        half-delirious once more for lack of proper attention and the hardships of
                        travel. But the ill-wind had spent its force. Bray's instructions
                        were to place his charges on board ship at San Fernando de Union, and then
                        await further orders in the little coast town. It meant good-bye to Jane,
                        and that meant more to him than he was willing to admit, despite all that
                        she had said to him. He went to her when the ship was ready to leave port.
                    "Good-bye!" he said. "I'm more grieved
                        than I can tell you, because I believe you think I am a cad."
                    "Lieutenant Bray, a cad never would have helped me as you have
                        helped me, in spite of yourself. Goodbye!"
                    He went out of her life in that moment.
                    There were vexatious delays, however, before sailing. Almost at the last
                        moment Jane was approached by Teresa Velasquez, now partly dressed as a Red
                        Cross nurse. The Spanish girl was nerous and uneasy. Her dark eyes held two
                        ever changing lightsone sombre, the other bright and piercing.
                    "I have decided to wait for the next ship," she announced
                        briefly.
                    "You are not going with us?" cried Jane in surprise and
                        distress. "What has happened?"
                    "It is impossible; I cannot go with you. Pray do not ask for my
                        reason. Good-bye. Will you say good-bye toto him for me?"
                    
                    Jane was silent for a long time, studying the eyes of the Spanish girl.
                    "I think I understand," she said at last, taking
                        Teresa's hands in hers.
                    "It is better that it be ended here," said Teresa.
                        "I have endured it as long as I can. You have been good to me, and
                        I want to say good-bye while there is love for you in my heart. I am afraid
                        to stay near you and him. Don't you see? I cannot go on in this
                        way."
                    "Oh, Teresa!"
                    "Yes, yes, I know it is wrong, but how can I help it? I've
                        loved him ever since I first saw himsaved his life." Jane was
                        astounded. The thrust pierced her to the quick.
                    "Saved his life?"
                    "Yes, yes, I know it is wrong, but how can I help it? I've
                        loved him ever since I first saw himsaved his life." Jane was
                        astounded. The thrust pierced her to the quick.
                    "Saved his life?"
                    "Yes, though he does not know it. It was when we were prisoners of
                        the Filipinos. My poor brother was dying. From the convent Aguinaldo and his
                        men were watching and directing the fight on the plaza. They paid no
                        attention to mea girl. The noise of the fighting men was terrible, and I
                        climbed up to a window where I could see. Suddenly, below me, I saw two men
                        fighting apart from the struggling mass. In an instant it flashed through my
                        mind that the Filipino was overpowering the otherwas going to kill him.
                        Although I hated them equally, there was something in the young
                        soldier's faceI could not see him murdered. I seized a pistol that
                        was lying near me and fired; the Filipino fell. In terror of the deed and
                        fear of discovery, I ran to my brother. In a moment  the Americans broke into the convent. You know the
                        rest."
                    Jane was suffering the keenest pangs of jealousy, and asked, excitedly:
                    "Youyou did that?"
                    "And finally, when I had learned to care for him and he was wounded,
                        to have been denied the right of nursing him back to lifemy place usurped by
                        you. Surely, I have as much to be proud of as you and I love him a great
                        deal more!"
                    "As much to be proud of" Jane was saying, for the moment
                        all the warmth gone from her voice, the flame from her cheeks; but her
                        meaning could not have been understood by the other who proudly, defiantly
                        tossed back her head. Beautiful indeed was this brown-skinned, black-eyed
                        girl, as she stood there pleading her rights to an unrequited lovea heart
                        already tenanted by another, and that other, the woman before her.
                    "Now, can you imagine," the girl went on, "how it
                        has hurt me to see you caring for him, to see his eyes forever searching for
                        you? No?" They were silent a moment. A wistful look was in her eyes
                        now, and her voice unmistakably reconcilable when she resumed: "Ah,
                        he was so good and true when I was alone with thembefore you came! I pray
                        God, now, that he may be well and that you may make him happy."
                    "Alas, I am afraid that can never be! You cannot understand, and I
                        cannot explain."
                    "Your family objects because he is poor and a common soldier?
                        Yes?" She laughed bitterly, a green 
                        light in her eyes. "If it were I, no one could keep me from
                        belonging to himI would"
                    "Don't! Don't say it! You don't
                        understand!" Jane reiterated.
                    "Dios, how I loved him! I would have gone through my whole life with
                        him! He must have known it, too."
                    "He was true to me," said Jane, her figure straightening
                        involuntarily, a new gleam in her eyes.
                    "Ah, you are lucky, seorita! I love you, and I could hate you so
                        easily! Go! Go! Take him with you and give him life! Forget me as I shall
                        forget you both!" And impulsively taking from round her neck an
                        Agnus Dei which she was wearing, she placed it in Jane's hands, and
                        added: "Give this to him, please, and do not forget to tell him
                        that I sent good-bye and good luck."
                    Jane would have kissed her had not the blazing eyes of the other forbade.
                        They merely clasped hands, and Teresa turned away.
                    "My uncle lives in Manila. He will take me to Madrid. We cannot live
                        here with these pigs of Americans about us," she said shortly. A
                        moment later she was lost in the crowd.
                    Jane's heart was heavy when the ship moved away. Her eyes searched
                        through the throng for the slight figure of the girl who had abandoned a
                        lost cause.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    "IF THEY DON'T KILL YOU"
                    JANE had been a nurse in the Red Cross society for a
                        little more than six weeks. She was inexperienced but willing and there was
                        such urgent need for nurses that the army accepted any and all who seemed
                        capable of development under the training of experts. There had been
                        tremendous opposition on the part of the Harbins, but in the end, finding
                        her unalterably determined, the colonel permitted her to go out in the
                        service. She was sent forth on the special expedition in the wake of Major
                        March's forces, her secret desire being to be near Graydon Bansemer
                        in event of his injury. She gave no heed to their protest that the name of
                        Bansemer should be hateful to her; she ignored the ugly remarks of her aunt
                        and the angry reproaches of the colonel. It was more the spirit of spite
                        than any other motive which at last compelled him to accept the situation;
                        he even went so far as to growl to his wife: "Cursed good riddance,
                        that's what I say. I didn't want her to come in the first
                        place."
                    But when, after a month, she brought Bansemer back to the city, wounded
                        almost to death, the heart of the soldier was touched. It was Colonel Harbin
                        who wrestled with the hospital authorities and, after two or three days, had
                        her installed regularly as a nurse for 
                        Bansemer, a concession not willingly granted. Those days were like years to
                        her. She was thin and worn when she came down from the north, but she was
                        haggard with anxiety and despair when the two days of suspense were ended.
                    Ethel Harbin was her ablest ally. This rather lawless young person laid aside
                        the hearts with which she was toying and bent her every endeavour to the
                        cause of romance. It was not long before every young officer in the city was
                        more or less interested in the welfare of Graydon Bansemer. She threw a fine
                        cloak of mystery about the "millionaire's son"
                        and the great devotion of her cousin. The youth of the army followed Ethel
                        to and from the hospital for days and days; without Ethel it is quite
                        doubtful if anybody could have known what a monstrous important personage
                        Private Bansemer really was.
                    At the end of a fortnight he was able to sit up and converse with his nurse
                        and the occasional Ethel. Dr. G,chief of the ward, remarked to Colonel
                        Harbin:
                    "He'll get well, of course. He can't help it. I
                        never knew before what society could do for a fellow. He's got a
                        society nurse and he is visited by a society despot. It beats Christian
                        Science all to pieces."
                    "Do you think he will be able to do any more fighting? Will he be
                        strong enough?"
                    "I don't see why. The government won't let him do
                        it, that's all. He can claim a pension and get out of service with
                        an honourable dischargeand maybe a medal. He'll be strong enough,
                        however. That fellow could go on a hike inside of a month."
                    
                    "I suppose we'll all be going home before long. This war is
                        about over," growled Harbin.
                    "No sirree! We'll be fighting these fellows for ten years.
                        Ah, there's your daughter, Colonel. Goodday."
                    With the first returning strength, freed from lassitude and stupor, Graydon
                        began whispering joyous words of love to Jane. His eyes were bright with the
                        gladness that his pain had brought. She checked his weak outbursts at first,
                        but before many days had passed she was obliged to resort to a firmness that
                        shocked him into a resentful silence. She was even harsh in her command. It
                        cut her to the quick to hurt him, but she was steeling herself against the
                        future.
                    When he was able to walk out in the grounds, she withdrew farther into the
                        background of their daily life. He hungered for her, but she began to avoid
                        him with a strange aloofness that brought starvation to his heart. While she
                        was ever attentive to his wants, her smile lacked the tenderness he had
                        known in the days of danger, and her face was strangely sombre and white.
                    "Jane," he said to her one day as he came in from his walk
                        and laid down his crutches, "this can't go on any longer.
                        What is the matter? Don't you love menot at all?"
                    She stood straight and serious before him, white to the lips, her heart as
                        cold as ice.
                    "I love you, Graydon, with all my soul. I shall always love you.
                        Please, please, don't ask any more of me. You understand,
                        don't you? We cannot be as  we once
                        werenever. That is ended. But, youyou must know that I
                        love you."
                    "It is sheer madness, dearest, to take that attitude. What else in
                        the world matters so long as we love one another? I felt at first that I
                        could not ask you to be my wife after what my father did that night. That
                        was as silly of me as this is of you. I did not contend long against my
                        love. You have never been out of my mind, night or day. I was tempted more
                        than once to desertbut that was impossible, you know. It was the terrible
                        eagerness to go back to you and compel you to be mine. My father did you a
                        grave wrong. He"
                    "But my father did me a graver wrong, Graydon. I have thought it all
                        out. I have no right to be alive, so what right have I to be any
                        man's wife?"
                    "Nonsense, dearest. You are alive, and you live for me, as I do for
                        you. You have saved my life; you must save my love. These last few weeks
                        have knit our lives together so completely that neither of us has the right
                        to change God's evident purpose. I love you for yourself, Jane.
                        That is enough. There has not been an instant in which I have felt that any
                        circumstance could alter my hope to marry you. You say you have no name. You
                        forget that you may have mine, dearestand it is not much to be proud of, I
                        fear, in the light of certain things. You must be my wife, Jane."
                    "I cannot, Graydon. That is final. Don't! Don't
                        plead, dear. It will not avail. Look into my eyes. Don't you see
                        that I mean it, Graydon?"
                    
                    "By Heaven, Jane, your eyes are lying to me. You can't mean
                        what is back of them. It's cruelit's wrong."
                    "Hush! you must not become excited. You are far from strong, and I
                        am still your nurse. Be"
                    "You are my lifeyou are everything. I can't give you up.
                        It's ridiculous to take this stand. Be sensible. Look at it from my
                        point of view."
                    "There is only one point of view and love has nothing to do with it.
                        Come, let us talk of something else. Have you heard from youryour father?
                        Does he know you've been injured?"
                    He looked long into her tense face and then muttered, with the sullen despair
                        of the sick: "I don't know. I've had no word from
                        anyone."
                    "The despatches have doubtless given your name. One of the Chicago
                        correspondents was talking about you recently. Your father will surely write
                        to you now."
                    "Are you eager to have him do so? I should think you'd hate
                        his name. I can't help caring for dad, Jane. I tried to curse him
                        one time, but he really has been good to me. I don't see how he can
                        have done the things they say he's done."
                    "There may be a mistake."
                    "That's good of you, dear, but you forget your
                        mother's statements and all that Rigby saysall that. Oh,
                        I've gone over all of it, and I am convinced. I wonder what has
                        become of him. He was afraid ofofwell, there was talk of an arrest before I
                        left. I have not looked at a newspaper since I saw the headlines  that awful morning. God, how they must have
                        hurt you!"
                    "I, too, have not looked at a newspaper since then,
                        Graydon," she said simply. He smiled wearily and there was response
                        in her eyes.
                    He took her hand in his and they sat silently side by side on the bench for
                        half an hour, their thoughts far away but of one another.
                    "Graydon," she said at last, "are you going to
                        remain in the army?"
                    "No, I am through with it. My discharge is to be recommended.
                        I'm disabled."
                    "You will be as strong as ever, dear."
                    "Do you want me to stick to the army? I am only a private."
                    "You can do greater things out in the world, I know. You will be a
                        great man if you don't lose heart, Graydon."
                    "I can't be a soldier, dear, and support a wife on the pay
                        I get," he said with a smile.
                    "You shouldn't marry,"
                    "But I am going to marry," he said.
                    "I have decided to become a nurse. It is my intention to give my
                        whole life to"
                    "The Red Cross?"
                    "No. The hospitals at homethe hospitals for the poor and
                        homeless."
                    Ethel Harbin was coming through the grounds toward them. Her face was clouded
                        by a dark frown and she was visibly excited.
                    "It's all off," she announced as she came up.
                    
                    "Where is the usual hero?" asked Graydon.
                    "I'm through with the real army. They've dismissed
                        me. That is father and mother have. They are driving me into the Salvation
                        Army," she exclaimed, seating herself beside Graydon. "I
                        wish I were Jane and my own mistress."
                    "Dear me, Ethel, what an ambition!" said Jane.
                    "What has happened to upset you so?"
                    "Father has."
                    "I should have asked who, not what."
                    "I suppose they expect me to marry a Salvation Army man. They say
                        Harry isn't good enough. I think he is a very moral young
                        man."
                    "Harvy? Who is Harry?"
                    "Why, haven't you heard? Harry Soper. I'm engaged
                        to him."
                    "The lieutenant?"
                    "Certainly. He's going to be promoted, though, if he ever
                        gets on the firing line. It's not his fault that he has to do duty
                        in the walled city. He's aching to get out and fight. But
                        father" Here she paused, her lips coming together with a firmness
                        that boded ill.
                    "Colonel Harbin doesn't approve?"
                    "Nohe says Harry is a 'little pup.' It's
                        outrageous, Jane."
                    "Don't cry, dear. The world is full of men."
                    "Not for me," said Ethel dolefully. "I've
                        picked Harry out of a hundred or more and I think my discrimination ought to
                        be considered. I'm the one to be satisfied. Father has no"
                    
                    "But how about that young fellow back in New York? You used to say
                        he was the only one."
                    "He is the only one in New York. But look how far off he is! It
                        takes weeks for his letters to get to me."
                    "But he writes every day."
                    "Harry telephones every day. I tell you, Jane, the voice has a good
                        deal to do with it. You like to hear a fellow say nice
                        things. It beats ink all to pieces. It will go hard with him, perhaps, but
                        he's young. He'll get over it."
                    "You are young, too. That is why you have gotten over
                        George."
                    "I'm not as young as I was. But I've decided on
                        Harry. If father doesn't let us get married right away,
                        I'm liable to get over him, too. It's silly doing that all
                        the time; one might never get married, you know. But father is firm. He says
                        I can't, and he says he'll kick Harry into the middle of
                        next summer. Father says I shall not marry into the regular army. He says
                        they don't make good husbands. I've got the joke on him,
                        though. He appealed to mother, and she forgot herself and said the same
                        thing. They were quarrelling about it when I left the hotel. It was an awful
                        jar to father. For two cents I'd elope with Harry."
                    "It would be pretty difficult for an officer on duty to elope,
                        don't you think?" asked Graydon, amused.
                    "Not if he loved the girl. He does, too. But I haven't told
                        you the worst. Mother says I am being absolutely spoiled out here in Manila,
                        and she says  flatly, that she's
                        going to take me back to the States. Isn't it awful?"
                    "Back to the fellow in New York?" smiled Jane
                        encouragingly.
                    Ethel thought for a moment and a dear little smile came into her troubled
                        eyes.
                    "I hope he hasn't gone and fallen in love with some other
                        girl," she said.
                    It was true, as Jane soon learned, that Mrs. Harbin had concluded to return
                        to the United States with Ethel. Jane's aunt had grown immeasurably
                        tired of Manila and perhaps a little more tired of the Colonel. It was she
                        who aroused the Colonel's antipathy to little Lieutenant Soper. She
                        dwelt upon the dire misfortune that was possible if Ethel continued to bask
                        in the society of "those young ninnies." The Colonel
                        developed a towering rage and a great fear that Ethel might become fatally
                        contaminated before she could be whisked off of the island. It was decided
                        that Mrs. Harbin and Ethel should return to the United States soon after the
                        first of March, to take up their residence in New York City.
                    "Mother wants to be a soldier's widowon parole,"
                        sniffed Ethel, almost audibly enough for her father's ears.
                    Mrs. Harbin at once informed Jane that she was expected to return with them.
                        She demurred at first, purely for the sake of appearances, but in the end
                        agreed to tender her resignation to the Red Cross society. The knowledge
                        that Graydon Bansemer's discharge was soon forthcoming and that he
                        intended to  return to 'America in
                        the spring had more to do with this decision than she was willing to admit.
                        She therefore announced her ambition to become a trained nurse and gave no
                        heed to Mrs. Harbin's insinuating smile.
                    Letters, of late, from Mrs. Cable, had been urging her to return to Chicago;
                        David Cable was far from wellbreaking fastand he was wearing out his heart
                        in silent longing for her return. He wrote to her himself that he expected
                        to retire from active business early in the year, and that his time and
                        fortune from that day on would be devoted to his family. He held out
                        attractive visions of travel, of residence abroad, of endless pleasure which
                        they could enjoy together.
                    Jane had written to them that she would not live in Chicagoany place else in
                        the world, she saidand they understood. There was no word of James Bansemer
                        in all these letters. She was always daughter to them and they were father
                        and mother.
                    Graydon Bansemer one day received three lettersall from Chicago. He knew the
                        handwriting on the envelope of each. Three men had written to him, his
                        father, Elias Droom, and Rigby. A dark scowl came over his face as he looked
                        at the Rigby envelope. It was the first letter that he opened and read. Jane
                        was sitting near by watching the expression on his face.
                    "It's from Rigby," he said as he finished.
                    "What does he say?" she asked anxiously.
                    "He says he is my devoted friend for life," replied Graydon
                        bitterly. "I can't forget, though, Jane. He is not the
                        sort of friend I want."
                    "He thought it was for the best, Graydon."
                    
                    "Yes, and he may have thought he was my friend, too. This letter
                        says as much. But I like an enemy better, dear. You know what to expect of
                        an enemy at all times. Here's one from Elias Droomold
                        Elias." Droom scrawled a few words of cheer to the young soldier,
                        urging him not to re-enlist, but to come home, at the end of his two years.
                        He enclosed a letter from Mr. Clegg, in which that gentleman promised to put
                        Graydon in charge of their New York office, if he would take the place. This
                        news sent his spirits bounding. Tears of a gratefulness he never expected to
                        feel sprang to his eyes. Jane's happiness was a reflection of his
                        own.
                    james Bansemer's letter was not read aloud to Jane. When he had
                        finished the perusal of the long epistle he folded it and stuck it away in
                        his pocket. His eyes seemed a bit wistful and his face drawn, but there was
                        no word to let her know what had been written by the man who had denounced
                        her.
                    "He is well," was all he said. He did not tell her that his
                        father had urged him to go into business in the Philippines, saying that he
                        would provide ample means with which to begin and carry on any enterprise he
                        cared to exploit. One paragraph cut Graydon to the quick:
                    "I'd advise you to steer clear of Chicago. If they
                        don't kill you in the Philippines, you're better off
                        there. They hate us here."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    HOMEWARD BOUND
                    EARLY in March a great transport sailed from Manila Bay,
                        laden with sick and disabled soldiersthe lame, the healthless and the mad.
                        It was not a merry shipload, although hundreds were rejoicing in the escape
                        from the hardships of life in the islands. Graydon Bansemer was among them,
                        weak and distrustful of his own futurealbeit a medal of honour and the
                        prospect of an excellent position were ahead of him. His discharge was
                        assured. He had served his country briefly, but well, and he was not loath
                        to rest on his insignificant laurels and to respect the memory of the
                        impulse which had driven him into service. In his heart he felt that time
                        would make him as strong as ever, despite the ugly scar in his side. It was
                        a question with him, however, whether time could revive the ambition that
                        had been smothered during the first days of despair. He looked ahead with
                        keen inquiry, speculating on the uncertain whirl of fortune's
                        wheel.
                    Jane was obduracy itself in respect to his pleadings. A certain light in her
                        eyes had, at last, brought conviction to his soul. He began to fearwith a
                        mighty painthat she would not retreat from the stand she had taken.
                    She went on board with Mrs. Harbin and Ethel. There were other wives on board
                        who had found temporary  release from irksome
                        but voluntary enlistment. Jane's resignation from the Red Cross
                        society deprived her of the privileges which would have permitted her to see
                        much of Graydon. They were kept separated by the transport's
                        regulations; he was a common soldier, she of the officer's mess.
                        The restrictions were cruel and relentless. They saw but little of one
                        another during the thirty days; but their thoughts were busy with the days
                        to come. Graydon grew stronger and more confident as the ship forged nearer
                        to the Golden Gate; Jane more wistful and resigned to the new purpose which
                        was to give life another colouring, if possible. They were but one day out
                        from San Francisco when he found the opportunity to converse with her as she
                        passed through the quarters of the luckless ones.
                    "Jane, I won't take no for an answer this time,"
                        he whispered eagerly; "you must consent. Do you want to ruin both
                        of our lives?"
                    "Why will you persist, Graydon? You know I cannot"
                    "You can. Consider me as well as yourself. I want you.
                        Isn't that enough? You can't ask for more love than I will
                        give. To-morrow we'll be on shore. I have many things to do before
                        I am at liberty to go my way. Won't you wait for me? It
                        won't be long. We can be married in San Francisco. Mr. and Mrs.
                        Cable are to meet you. Tell them, dearest, that you want to go home with me.
                        The home won't be in Chicago; but it will be home just the
                        same."
                    "Dear Graydon, I am sorryI am heartsick. But I cannotI dare
                        not."
                    
                    Graydon Bansemer was a man as well as a lover. He gave utterance to a
                        perfectly man-like expression, coming from the bottom of his tried soul:
                    "It's damned nonsense, Jane!" He said it so
                        feelingly that she smiled even as she shook her head and moved away.
                        "I'll see you to-morrow on shore?" he called,
                        repentant and anxious.
                    "Yes!"
                    The next day they landed. Graydon waved an anxious farewell to her as he was
                        hurried off with the lame, the halt, and the blind. He saw David Cable and
                        his wife on the pier and, in spite of himself, he could not repel an eager,
                        half-fearful glance through the crowd of faces. Although he did not expect
                        his father to meet him, he dreaded the thought that he might be there, after
                        all. To his surprise, as he stood waiting with his comrades, he saw David
                        Cable turn suddenly, and, after a moment's hesitation, wave his
                        hand to him, the utmost friendship in his now haggard face. His heart
                        thumped joyously at this sign of amity.
                    As the soldiers moved away, Cable paused and looked after him, a grim though
                        compassionate expression in his eyes. He and Jane were ready to confront the
                        customs officers.
                    "I wonder if he knows about his father," mused he. Jane
                        caught her breath and looked at him with something like terror in her eyes.
                        He abruptly changed the subject, deploring his lapse into the past from
                        which they were trying to shield her.
                    The following morning Graydon received a note from Cable, a frank but
                        carefully worded message, in which  he was
                        invited to take the trip East in the private car of the President of the
                        Pacific, Lakes & Atlantic. Mrs. Cable joined her husband in the
                        invitation; one of the sore spots in Graydon's conscience was
                        healed by this exhibition of kindness. Moreover, Cable stated that his party
                        would delay departure until Graydon's papers were passed upon and
                        he was free from red tape restrictions.
                    The young man, on landing, sent telegrams to his father and Elias Droom, the
                        latter having asked him to notify him as soon as he reached San Francisco.
                        Graydon was not a little puzzled by the fact that the old clerk seemed
                        strangely at variance with his father, in respect to the future. In both
                        telegrams, he announced that he would start East as soon as possible.
                    There was a letter from Droom awaiting him at headquarters. It was brief, but
                        it specifically urged him to accept the place proposed by Mr. Clegg, and
                        reiterated his pressing command to the young man to stop for a few days in
                        Chicago. In broad and characteristically uncouth sentences, he assured him
                        that while the city held no grudge against him, and that the young men would
                        welcome him with open armshis groundless fears to the contraryhe would
                        advise him to choose New York. There was one rather sentimental allusion to
                        "old Broadway" and another to
                        "Grennitch," as he wrote it. In conclusion, he asked him
                        to come to the office, which was still in the UBuilding, adding that if he
                        wished to avoid the newspaper men he could find seclusion at the old rooms
                        in Wells Street. "Your father," he said, "has
                        given up his apartment and has  taken
                        lodgings. I doubt very much if he will be willing to share them with you, in
                        view of the position he has assumed in regard to your future; although he
                        says you may always call upon him for pecuniary assistance." A
                        draft for five hundred dollars was enclosed with the letter.
                    Graydon was relieved to find that there would be no irksome delay attending
                        his official discharge. When he walked out a "free man,"
                        as he called it, a gentlemanly pension attorney locked arms with him, and
                        hung on like a leech, until the irritated soldier shook him off with less
                        consideration than vigour.
                    He went directly to the Palace Hotel, where he knew the Cables were stopping.
                        David Cable came down in response to his card. The two men shook hands, each
                        eyeing the other inquiringly for an instant.
                    "I want you to understand, Graydon, that I am your friend. Nothing
                        has altered my esteem for you."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Cable. I hardly expected it."
                    "I don't see why, my boy. But, we'll let all that
                        pass. Mrs. Cable wants to see you."
                    "Before we go any farther I want to make myself clear to you. I
                        still hope to marry Jane. She says she cannot become my wife. You understand
                        why, sir. I only want to tell you that her objections are not objections to
                        me. She is Jane and I love her, sir, because she is."
                    "I hope you can win her over, Graydon. She seems determined,
                        however, and she is unhappy. You can't blame her, either. If there
                        were base or common blood  in her, it
                        wouldn't make much difference to her pride. But she's made
                        of other material. She's serious about it and I am sensible enough
                        to get her point of view. She wouldn't want to marry you with the
                        prospect of an eternal shadow that neither of you could get off of your
                        minds. I sometimes wish that I knew who were her parents."
                    "It doesn't matter, so far as I am concerned."
                    "I know, my boy, but she is thinking of the heritage that comes down
                        from her mother to her. You'll never know how it hurt me to find
                        that I had no daughter. It hurts her worse a thousandfold to learn that she
                        has no mother. I trust it may not happen that you will lose her as a
                        wife."
                    "If I really thought I couldn't win her, sir, it would ruin
                        my ambition in life. She loves me, I'm sure."
                    "By the way, Clegg tells me he has offered you the New York office.
                        It is a splendid chance for you. You will take it, of course."
                    "I expect to talk it over with Mr. Clegg when I get to
                        Chicago."
                    "Come up to our apartments. Oh, pardon me, Graydon, I want to ask
                        you if you have sufficient money to carry you through? I know the pay of a
                        private is not great"
                    "Thank you. I have saved nearly all of it. My father has sent me a
                        draft for five hundred. I don't expect to use it, of
                        course."
                    "Your father?" asked Cable, with a quick, searching look.
                    "And then I did save something in Chicago, strange  as it may seem," said Bansemer, with
                        a smile. "I have a few of your five per cents. I trust the road is
                        all right?"
                    The Cables left San Francisco on the following day, accompanied by the
                        Harbins and Graydon Bansemer. There was no mistaking the joy which lay under
                        restraint in the faces and attitude of the Cables. David Cable had grown
                        younger and less grey, it seemed, and his wife was glowing with a new and
                        subdued happiness. Graydon, sitting with the excited Ethelwho was rejoicing
                        in the prospect of New York and the other young manstudied the faces of the
                        three people who sat at the other end of the coach.
                    Time had wrought its penalties. Cable was thin and his face had lost its
                        virility, but not its power. His eyes never left the face of Jane, who was
                        talking in an earnest, impassioned manner, as was her wont in these days.
                        Frances Cable's face was a study in transition. She had lost the
                        colour and vivacity of a year ago, although the change was not apparent to
                        the casual observer. Graydon could see that she had suffered in many ways.
                        The keen, eager appeal for appreciation was gone from her eyes; in its stead
                        was the appeal for love and contentedness. Happiness, now struggling against
                        the smarting of a sober pain, was giving a sweetness to her eyes that had
                        been lost in the ambitious glitter of other days. Ethel bored hima most
                        unusual condition. He longed to be under the tender, quieting influences at
                        the opposite end of the car. He even resented his temporary exile.
                    "Jane," Cable was saying with gentle insistence;  "it is not just to him. He loves you
                        and you are not doing the right thing by him."
                    "You'll find I am right in the end," she said
                        stubbornly.
                    "I can't bear the thought of your going out as a trained
                        nurse, dear," protested Frances Cable. "There is no
                        necessity. You can have the best of homes and in any place you like. Why
                        waste your life in"
                    "Waste, mother? It would be wasting my life I did not find an
                        occupation for it. I can't be idle. I can't exist forever
                        in your love and devotion."
                    "Good Lord, child, don't be foolish," exclaimed
                        Cable. "That hurts me more than you think. Everything we have is
                        yours."
                    "I'm sorry I said it, daddy. I did not mean it in that way.
                        It isn't the money, you know, and it isn't the home,
                        either. No, you must let me choose my own way of living the rest of my life.
                        I came from a foundling hospital. A good and tender nurse found me there and
                        gave me the happiest years of my life. I shall go back there and give the
                        rest of my years to children who are less fortunate than I was. I want to
                        help them, mother, just as you didonly it is different with me."
                    "You'll see it differently some day," said Mrs.
                        Cable earnestly.
                    "I don't object to your helping the foundlings,
                        Jane," said Cable, "but I don't see why you have
                        to be a nurse to do it. Other women support such causes and not as nurses,
                        either. It's"
                    "It's my way, daddy, that's all," she
                        said firmly.
                    
                    "Then why, in the name of Heaven, were you so unkind as to keep that
                        poor boy over there alive when he might have died and ended his misery? You
                        nursed him back to life only to give him a wound that cannot be healed. You
                        would ruin his life, Jane. Is it fair? Damn me, I'm uncouth and
                        hard in many waysI had a hard, unkind beginningbut I really believe
                        I've got more heart in me than you have."
                    "David!" exclaimed his wife. Jane looked at the exasperated
                        man in surprise.
                    "Now here's what I intend you to do: you owe me something
                        for the love that I give to you; you owe Graydon something for keeping him
                        from dying. If you want to go into the nursing business, all right. But
                        I'm going to demand some of your devotion for my own sake before
                        that time comes. I've loved you all of your life"
                    "And I've loved you, daddy," she gasped.
                    "And I'm going to ask you to begin your nursing career by
                        attending to me. I'm sick for want of your love. I'm
                        giving up business for the sake of enjoying it unrestrained. Your mother and
                        I expect it. We are going abroad for our health and we are going to take you
                        with us. Right now is where you begin your career as a nurse.
                        You've got to begin by taking care of the love that is sick and
                        miserable. We want it to live, my dear. Now, I want a direct decisionat
                        once: will you take charge of two patients on a long-contemplated trip in
                        search of love and restwages paid in advance?"
                    She looked at him, white-faced and stunned. He was  putting it before her fluently and in a new light. She saw
                        what it was that he considered that she owed to themthe love of a daughter,
                        after all.
                    An hour later she stood with Graydon on the rear platform of the car. He was
                        trying to talk calmly of the country through which they were rushing and she
                        was looking pensively down the rails that slipped out behind them.
                    "We'll be in Chicago in three days," he remarked.
                    "Graydon, I have decided to go abroad for five or six months before
                        starting upon my work. They want me so much, you see," she said,
                        her voice a trifle uncertain.
                    "I wish I could have some power to persuade you," he said.
                        Changing his tone to one of brisk interest, he went on. "It is
                        right, dear. It will do you great good and it will be a joy to them.
                        I'll miss you."
                    "And I shall miss you, Graydon," she said, her eyes very
                        solemn and wistful.
                    "Won't youwon't you give me the promise I want,
                        Jane?" he asked eagerly. She placed her hand upon his and shook her
                        head.
                    "Won't you be good to me, Graydon? Don't make it
                        so hard for me. Please, please don't tell me again that you love
                        me."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE WRECKAGE
                    THE spring floods delayed the Eastern Express, bringing
                        the party to Chicago nearly a day late. The Cables and the Harbins went at
                        once to the Annex, where David Cable had taken rooms. They had given up
                        their North Side home some months before, both he and his wife retiring into
                        the seclusion that a great hotel can afford when necessary.
                    Graydon hurried off to his father's office, eager, yet half fearing
                        to meet the man who was responsible for the broken link in his lifethis odd
                        year. He recalled, as he drove across town, that a full year had elapsed
                        since he spent that unforgettable night in Elias Droom's uncanny
                        home. Was he never to forget that nightthat night when his soul seemed even
                        more squalied than the home of the recluse?
                    All of his baggage, except a suit case, had been left at the station. He did
                        not know what had become of his belongings in the former home of his father.
                        Nor, for that matter, did he care.
                    At the UBuilding he ventured a diffident greeting to the elevator boy, whom
                        he remembered. The boy looked at him quizzically and nodded with customary
                        aloofness. Graydon found himself hoping that he would not meet Bobby Rigby.
                        He also wondered,  as the car shot up, how his
                        father had managed to escape from the meshes that were drawn about him on
                        the eve of his departure. His chances had looked black and hopeless enough
                        then; yet, he still maintained the same old offices in the building. His
                        name was on the directory board downstairs. Graydon's heart gave a
                        quick bound with the thought that his father had proved the charges false
                        after all.
                    Elias Droom was busy directing the labours of two able-bodied men and a
                        charwoman, all of whom were toiling as they had never toiled before. The
                        woman was dusting law books and the men were packing them away in boxes. The
                        front room of the suite was in a state of devastation. A dozen boxes stood
                        about the floor; rugs and furniture were huddled in the most remote corner
                        awaiting the arrival of the "secondhand man"; the floor
                        was littered with paper. Droom was directing operations with a broken
                        umbrella. It seemed like a lash to the toilers.
                    "Now, let's get through with this room," he was
                        saying in his most impelling way. "The men will be here for the
                        boxes at four. I don't want 'em to wait. This back room
                        stuff we'll put in the trunks. Look out there! Don't you
                        see that nail?"
                    Eddie Deever, with his usual indolence, was seated upon the edge of the
                        writing table in the corner, smoking his cigarette, and commenting with rash
                        freedom upon the efforts of the perspiring slaves.
                    "How long are you going to keep these things in the
                        warehouse?" he asked of Droom.
                    "I'm not going to keep them there at all. They belong  to Mr. Bansemer. He'll take them out
                        when he has the time."
                    "He's getting all the time he wants now, I guess."
                        commented Eddie. "Say, talking about time, I'll be
                        twenty-one next Tuesday."
                    "Old enough to marry."
                    "I don't know about that. I'm getting pretty wise.
                        Do you know, I've just found out how old Rosie Keating is?
                        She's twenty-nine. Gee, it's funny how a fellow always
                        gets stuck on a girl older than himself! Still, she's all right.
                        I'm not saying a word against her. She wouldn't be
                        twenty-nine if she could help it."
                    "I suppose it's off between you, then."
                    "I don't know about that, either. We lunched at
                        Rector's to-day. That don't look like it's off,
                        does it? Four sixty-five, including the tip. She don't look
                        twenty-nine, does she?"
                    "I've never noticed her."
                    "Neverwell, holy mackerel! You must be blind then. She says
                        she's seen you in the elevator a thousand times. Never noticed her? Gee!"
                    "I mean, I've never noticed anyone who looked less than
                        twenty-nine. By the way, do you ever see Mr. Rigby? I believe she is in his
                        office."
                    "I don't go to Rigby's any more," said
                        Eddie, with sudden stiffness. "He's a cheap
                        skate."
                    "I heard he threw you out of the office one
                        day," with a dry cackle.
                    "He did not! We couldn't agree in certain things regarding
                        the Bansemer affair, that's all. I told him to go to the devil, or
                        words to that effect."
                    
                    "Something loose about your testimony, I believe, wasn't
                        there?"
                    "Oh, the whole thing doesn't amount to a whoop.
                        I'm trying to get Rosie another job. She oughtn't to write
                        in there with that guy."
                    "Well, you're twenty-one. Why don't you open an
                        office of your own? Your mother's got plenty of money. She can buy
                        you a library and a sign, and that is all a young lawyer needs in
                        Chicago."
                    "Mother wants me to run for alderman in our ward, next spring.
                        I'll be able to vote at that election."
                    "You've got as much right in the council as some others, I
                        suppose."
                    "Sure, mother owns property. The West Side ought to be as well
                        represented as the North Side. Property interests is what we need in the
                        council. That's"
                    "I don't care to hear a political speech, boy. Are you busy
                        this afternoon?"
                    "No. I wouldn't be here if I was."
                    "Then get up there and hand those books down to me. Nobody loafs in
                        this office to-day."
                    "Well, doggone, if that isn't the limit! All right.
                        Don't get mad. I'll do it." The young gentleman
                        leisurely ascended to the top of the stepladder and fell into line under the
                        lash.
                    "Young Mr. Graydon Bansemer will be here this afternoon,"
                        said Droom. "I want to get things cleaned up a bit
                        beforehand."
                    "How does he feel about his father?"
                    "He doesn't know about him, I'm afraid."
                    "Gee! Well, it'll jar him a bit, won't
                        it?"
                    
                    The office door was opened suddenly and a tall young man strode into the
                        room, only to stop aghast at the sight before him. Droom's lank
                        figure swayed uncertainly and his eyes wavered.
                    "What's all this?" cried Graydon, dropping his bag
                        and coming toward the old man, his hand outstretched. Droom's
                        clammy fingers rested lifelessly in the warm clasp.
                    "How are you, Graydon? I'mI'm very glad to see
                        you. You are looking well. Oh, this? Wewe are moving," said the old
                        man. The helpers looked on with interest. "Come into the back
                        office. It isn't so torn up. I didn't expect you so soon.
                        They said it was twenty-four hours late. Well, well, how are you, my
                        boy?"
                    "I'm quite well again, Elias. Hard siege of it, I tell you.
                        Moving, eh? What' that for?"
                    "Never mind those books, Eddie. Thank you for helping me. Come in
                        some other time. You fellowsI mean youpack the rest of these and then
                        I'll tell you what to do next. Come in, Graydon."
                    Eddie Deever took his departure, deeply insulted because he had not been
                        introduced to the newcomer. Graydon, somewhat bewildered, followed Droom
                        into his father's consultation room. He looked around inquiringly.
                    "Where is father? I telegraphed to him."
                    An incomprehensible grin came into Droom's face. He twirled the
                        umbrella in his fingers a moment before replying. His glance at the closed
                        door was no more significant than his lowered tones.
                    
                    "It didn't go very well with him, Graydon. He
                        isn't here any more."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "I mean the trial. There was a trial, you see. Haven't you
                        heard anything?"
                    "Trial? Hehe was arrested?" came numbly from the young
                        man's lips.
                    "I can't mince matters, Graydon. I'll get it over
                        as quickly as possible. Your father was tried for blackmail and was
                        convicted. He is inhe's in the penitentiary."
                    The son's face became absolutely bloodless; his eyes were full of
                        comprehension and horror, and his body stiffened as if he were turning to
                        stone. The word penitentiary fell slowly, mechanically from his lips. He
                        looked into Droom's eyes, hoping it might be a joke of the
                        calloused old clerk.
                    "Youitit can't be true," he murmured, his
                        trembling hands going to his temples.
                    "Yes, my boy, it is true. I didn't write to you about it,
                        because I wanted to put it off as long as I could. It's for five
                        years."
                    "God!" burst from the wretched son. A wave of shame and
                        grief sent the tears flooding to his eyes. "Poor old dad!"
                        He turned and walked to the window, his shoulders heaving. Droom stood
                        silent for a long time, watching Bansemer's son, pity and triumph
                        in his face.
                    "Do you want to hear about it?" he asked at last.
                        Graydon's head was bent in assent.
                    "It came the day after you left Chicago with the  recruits. I knew you would not read the
                        newspapers. So did he. Harbert swore out the papers and he was arrested here
                        in this office. I believe he would have killed himself if he had been given
                        time. His revolver wasernot loaded. Before the officers came he discharged
                        me. I was at liberty to go or to tertify against him. I did neither. Of
                        course, I was arrested, but they could only prove that I was a clerk who
                        knew absolutely nothing about the inside workings of the office. I offered
                        to go on his bond but he would not have me. He made some arrangement,
                        through his attorney, and bail was secured. In spite of the fact that he was
                        charged with crime, he insisted on keeping these offices and trying to do
                        business. It wasn't because he needed money, Graydon, but because
                        he wanted to lead an honest life, he said. He has a great deal of money, let
                        me tell you. The grand jury indicted him last spring but the trial did not
                        come up until last monthnearly a year laterso swift is justice in this city.
                        In the meantime, I saw but little of him. I was working on an invention and,
                        besides, there were detectives watching every movement I made. I stuck close
                        to my rooms. By the way, I want to show you a couple of models I have
                        perfected. Don't let me forget it. They"
                    "Yes yesbut father? Go on!"
                    "Well, the trial came up at last. That man Harbert is a devil. He
                        had twenty witnesses, any one of whom could have convicted your father. How
                        he got onto them, I can't imagine. He uncovered every deal
                        we'veerhe had in Chicago and"
                    "Then he really was guilty!" groaned Graydon.
                    
                    "Yes, my boy, I knew it, of course. They could not force me to
                        testify against him, however. I was too smart for them. Well, to make it
                        short, he was sentenced five weeks ago. The motion for a new trial was
                        overruled. He went to Joliet. If he had been a popular alderman or ward boss
                        he would have been out yet on continuances, spending most of his sentence in
                        some fasionable hotel, to say the least."
                    "Is hewearing stripes?"
                    "Yes, it's the fashion there."
                    "For God's sake, don't jest. For five
                        years!" The young man sank into a chair and covered his face with
                        his hands.
                    "There'll be something of for good behaviour, my boy. He
                        wanted to behave well before he went there, so I suppose he'll keep
                        it up. The whole town was against him. He didn't have a
                        friend."
                    "How did you escape?" demanded Graydon, looking up
                        suddenly, "State's evidence?"
                    "No, not even after he tried to put most of the blame upon me. He
                        tried that, my boy. I just let him talk. It saved me from prison. Usually
                        the case with the man who keeps his mouth closed."
                    "But, EliasElias, why have I been kept in the dark? Why did he not
                        tell me about it? Why has"
                    "You forget, Graydon, that you turned from him first. You were
                        really the first to condemn him. He wanted you to stay away from this
                        country until he is free. That was his plan. He didn't want to see
                        you. Now he wants you to come to him. He wants you to bring Jane Cable to
                        see him."
                    
                    "What!"
                    "Yes, that's it. I believe he intends to tell her the names
                        of her father and mother. I think he wants her to forgive him and he wants
                        to hear both of you say it to him."
                    Graydon stared blankly from the window. The old clerk was smiling to himself,
                        an evil, gloating smile that would have shocked Bansemer had he turned
                        suddenly.
                    "He wants both of us toto come to the penitentiary?"
                        muttered the son.
                    "Yes, as soon as possible. Do you think she'll
                        go?" demanded Droom anxiously.
                    "I don't know. I'm afraid not."
                    "Not even to learn who her parents are?"
                    "It might tempt her. But she hates father."
                    "Well, she can gloat over him, can't she? That ought to be
                        some satisfaction. Talk it over with her. She's here,
                        isn't she?"
                    "Elias, do you know who her parents were?" asked Graydon
                        quickly. "I've thought you knew as much about it as
                        father."
                    The old man's eyes shifted.
                    "It's a silly question to ask of men. I was not a member of
                        the Four Hundred, my boy."
                    "Nor was my father. Yet you think he knows."
                    "He's a much smarter man than I, Graydon. You'll
                        go with me to see him?"
                    "Yes. I can't speak for Miss Cable."
                    "See her to-morrow. Come out to my place to-night, where the
                        reporters can't find you. Maybe you won't  care to sleep with meI've but one
                        bed, you seebut you can go to a quiet hotel downtown. I'm packing
                        these things to store them for your father. Then I'm going back to
                        New York to live on my income. It's honest money, too."
                    "Who sent me the draft for five hundred?"
                    "I did, Graydon. Forgive me. It was just a loan, you know. I thought
                        you'd need something"
                    "I haven't touched it, Elias. Here it is. Thank you. No, I
                        won't accept it."
                    "I'm sorry," muttered the old man, taking the slip
                        of paper.
                    Graydon resumed his seat near the window and watched Droom with leaden eyes
                        as he turned suddenly to resume charge of the packing.
                        "We'll soon be through," he said shortly.
                    For an hour the work went on, and then Droom dismissed the workers with their
                        pay. The storage van men were there to carry the boxes away. Graydon sat
                        still and saw the offices divested. Secondhand dealers hurried off with the
                        furniture, the pictures and the rugs; an expressman came in for the things
                        that belonged to Elias Droom.
                    "There," said the clerk, tossing the umbrella into a
                        corner. "It's finished. There's nothing left to
                        do but remove ourselves."
                    "Elias, did Mr. Clegg know about father's conviction when
                        he offered me the place in New York?" asked Graydon as they started
                        away.
                    "Yes, that's the beauty of it. He admires you.
                        You'll take the place?"
                    
                    "Not until I've talked it all over with
                        himtomorrow."
                    Droom called a cab and the two drove over to the Wells Street rooms, Graydon
                        reliquishing himself completely to the will of the old man. During the
                        supper, which Droom prepared with elaborate care, and far into the night,
                        the young man sat and listened without interest to the garrulous talk of his
                        host, who explained the mechanism and purpose of two models.
                    One was in the nature of a guillotine by which a person could chop his own
                        head off neatly without chance of failure, and the other had to do with the
                        improvement of science in respect to shoelaces.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    THE DRINK OF GALL
                    MR. CLEGG was not long in convincing
                        Graydon that his proposition to him was sincere and not the outgrowth of
                        sentiment. A dozen men in the office greeted Graydon with a warmth that had
                        an uplifting effect. He went away with a heart lighter than he had once
                        imagined it could ever be again. In two weeks he was to be in absolute
                        control of the New York branch; he assured the firm that his physical
                        condition was such that he could go to work at once, if necessary.
                    As he hastened to the Annex, misgivings again entered into his soul. The
                        newspapers had heralded his return and had hinted broadly at romantic
                        developments in connection with Miss Cable, "who is at the Annex
                        with Mr. and Mrs. Cable." There were brief references to the causes
                        which sent both of them to the Philippines, and that was all.
                    Without hesitation, he came to the point by asking if she knew what had
                        befallen his father. Jane had heard the news the night before. He thereupon
                        put the whole situation before her just as it had been suggested in
                        Droom's ironical remark. It was not until after the question had
                        been passed upon by Mr. and Mrs. Cable that she reluctantly consented to
                        visit Graydon's fathersolely for the purpose of gleaning what
                        information she could regarding her parentage.
                    
                    They left the next day with Elias Droom, depressed, nervous, dreading the
                        hour ahead of them. Neither was in the mood to respond to the eager, excited
                        remarks of the old clerk. The short railroad trip was one never to be
                        forgotten; impressions were left in their lives that could not be effaced.
                    James Bansemer, shorn and striped, was not expecting visitors. He was
                        surprised and angry when he was told that visitors were waiting to see him.
                        For four weeks he had laboured clumsily and sourly in the shoe factory of
                        the great prison, a hauler and carrier. His tall figure was bent with
                        unusual toil, his hands were sore and his heart was full of the canker of
                        rebellion. Already, in that short time, his face had taken on the look of
                        the convict. All the viciousness in his nature had gone to his face and
                        settled there. He had the sullen, dogged, patient look of the man who has a
                        number but no name.
                    The once dignified, aggressive walk had degenerated into a slouch; he
                        shuffled as he came to the bars where he was to meet his first visitors. He
                        was not pleased but he was curious. Down in his heart he found a hope that
                        his attorney had come with good news. It was not until he was almost face to
                        face with his son that he realised who it was; not until then that he felt
                        the full force of shame, ignominy, loathing for himself.
                    He started back with an involuntary oath and would have slunk away had not
                        Graydon called out to himcalled out in a voice full of pain and misery. The
                        convict's face was ashen and his jaw hung loose with the paralysis
                        of dismay; his heart dropped like a chunk  of
                        ice, his feet were as leaden weights. A look of utter despair came into his
                        hard eyes as he slowly advanced to the bars.
                    "My God, Graydon, why did you come? Why did you come here?"
                        he muttered. Then he caught sight of Jane and Elias Droom. His eyes dropped
                        and his fingers twitched; to save his life he could not have kept his lower
                        lip from trembling nor the burning tears from his eyes. His humiliation was
                        complete.
                    A malevolent grin was on Droom's face; his staring blue eyes looked
                        with a great joy upon the shamed, beaten man in the stripes. The one thing
                        that he had longed for and cherished had come to pass; he had lived to see
                        James Bansemer utterly destroyed even in his own eyes.
                    "Father, I can't believe it. I can't tell you how
                        it hurts me. I would willingly take your place if it were possible. Forgive
                        me for deserting you" Graydon was saying incoherently when his
                        father lifted his face suddenly, a fierce, horrified look of understanding
                        in the eyes that flashed upon Elias Droom. Even as he clasped his
                        son's hand in the bitterness of small joy, his lips curled into a
                        snarl of fury. Droom's eyes shifted instantly, his uneasy gaze
                        directing itself as usual above the head of its victim.
                    "You did this, curse you!" came from the convict's
                        livid lips. "And this girl, too! Good God, you knew I would rather
                        have died than to meet Graydon as I am now. You knew it and you brough him
                        here. I hope you will rot in hell for this, Elias Droom. She comes here,
                        too, to gloatto rejoiceto see how I  look
                        before my son in prison stripes!" He went on violently for a long
                        stretch, ending with a sob of rage. "I suppose you are
                        satisfied," he said hoarsely to Droom.
                    Graydon and Jane looked on in surprise and distress. Droom's gaze
                        did not swerve nor his expression change.
                    "Father, didn't you expect me to come?" asked
                        Graydon. "Don't you want to see me?"
                    "Not here. Why should I have tried to keep you from returning to
                        this country? God knows how I hoped and prayed that you'd not see
                        me here. Elias Droom knew it. That's why he brought you here.
                        Don't lie to me, Droom. I know it!"
                    "What could you expect?" mumbled Droom. "Down in
                        your heart you wanted to see him. I've done you a
                        kindness."
                    "For which I'll repay you some day," cried the
                        prisoner, a steady look in his eyes. "Now go away, all of you!
                        I'am through with you. You've seen me. The girl is
                        satisfied. Go"
                    "Nonsense, father," cried Graydon, visibly distressed by
                        his father's anguish. "Elias said that you wanted to see
                        us. Jane did not come out of curiosity. She is here to ask justice of you;
                        she's not seeking vengeance."
                    "I'll talk to you alone," said the prisoner
                        shortly. "Send her away. I've nothing to say to her or
                        Droom."
                    Jane turned and walked swiftly away, followed by Droom, who rubbed his long
                        fingers together and tried to look sympathetic. The interview that ensued
                        between  father and son was never to be
                        forgotten by either. Graydon heard his father's bitter story in
                        awed silence; heard him curse deeply and vindictively; heard all this and
                        marvelled at the new and heretofore unexposed side of his nature.
                    There was something pathetic in the haggard face and the expressions of
                        impotent rage. His heart softened when his father bared his shame to him and
                        cried out against the fate which had brought them together on this day.
                    "It doesn't matter, father," said Graydon
                        hoarsely. "I deserted you and I'm sorry. No matter what
                        you've done to bring you here, I'm glad I've come
                        to see you. I don't blame Elias. For a while I'm afraid I
                        rather held out against coming. Now, I am glad for my own sake. I
                        won't desert you now. I am going to work for a pardon, if your
                        appeal does not go through."
                    "Don't! I won't have it!" exclaimed the
                        other. "I'm going to stay it out. It will give me time to
                        forget, so that I can be a better man. If they let me out now I'd
                        do something I'd always regret. I want to serve my time and start
                        all over again. Don't worry about me. I won't hamper you.
                        I'll go awayabroad, as Harbert suggested. Damn him, his advice was
                        good, after all. Understand, Graydon, I do not want parole or pardon. You
                        must not undertake it. I am guilty and I ought to be punished the same as
                        these other fellows in here. Don't shudder. It's true.
                        I'm no better than they."
                    "I hate to think of you in this awful place" began Graydon.
                    
                    "Don't think of me."
                    "But, my God, I've seen you here, father," cried
                        the son.
                    "A pretty spectacle for a son," laughed the father
                        bitterly. "Why did you bring that girl here? That was
                        cruelheartless."
                    Graydon tried to convince him that Jane had not come to gloat but to ask a
                        favour of him.
                    "A favour, eh? She expects me to tell all I know about her, eh?
                        That's good!" laughed Bansemer.
                    "Father, she has done you no wrong. Why are you so bitter against
                        her? It's not rightit's not like you."
                    Bansemer looked steadily at him for a full minute.
                    "Is she going to marry you, Graydon?"
                    "She refuses, absolutely."
                    "Then, she's better than I thought. Perhaps I'm
                        wrong in hating her as I do. It's because she took you away from
                        me. Give me time, Graydon. Some day I may tell you all I know.
                        Don't urge me now; I can't do it now. I don't
                        want to see her again. Don't think I'm a fool about it,
                        boy, and don't speak of it again. Give me time."
                    "She is the gentlest woman in the world."
                    "You love her?"
                    "Better than my life."
                    "Graydon, II hope she will change her mind and become your
                        wife."
                    "You do? I don't understand."
                    "That's why I'd rather she never could know who
                        her parents are. The shadow is invisible now; it  wouldn't help matters for her if it were visible.
                        She's better off by not knowing. Has Droom intimated that he
                        knows?"
                    "He says he does not."
                    "He lies, but at the same time he won't tell her.
                        It's not in him to do it. God, he has served me ill to-day. He has
                        always hated me, but he was always true to me. He did me a vile trick when
                        he changed the cartridges in my revolver. By God, I discharged him for that.
                        I told him to appear against me if he would. He was free to do so. But,
                        curse him, he would not give me the satisfaction of knowing that he was a
                        traitor. He knew I'd go over the road, anyhow. He's been
                        waiting for this day to come. He has finally given me the unhappiest hour in
                        my life."
                    After a few moments he quieted down and asked Graydon what his plans were for
                        the future. In a strained uncertain way the two talked of the young
                        man's prospects and the advantages they promised.
                    "Go ahead, Graydon, and don't let the shadow of your father
                        haunt you. Don't forget me, boy, because I love you better than all
                        the world. These are strange words for a man who has fallen as I have
                        fallen, but they are true. Listen to this: you will be a rich man some day;
                        I have a fortune to give you, my boy. They can't take my money from
                        me, you know. It's all to be yoursevery cent of it. You
                        see"
                    "FatherIlet us not talk about it now," said Graydon
                        hastily, a shadow of repugnance in his eyes. Bansemer studied his face for a
                        moment and a deep red mounted to his brow.
                    
                    "You mean, Graydon," he stammered, "that youyou do
                        not want my money?"
                    "Why should we talk about it now?"
                    "Because it suggests my death?"
                    "No, no, father. I"
                    "You need not say it. I understand. It's enought. You feel
                        that my money was not honestly made. Well, we won't discuss it.
                        I'll not offer it to you again."
                    "It won't make any difference, dad. I love you. I
                        don't love your money."
                    "Or the way I earned it. Some day, my boy, you'll learn
                        that very few make money by dealing squarely with their fellow men.
                        It's not the custom. My methods were a little broader than common,
                        that's all. I now notify you that I intend to leave all I have to
                        sweet charity. I earned most of my ill-gotten wealth in New York and
                        Chicago, and I'm going to give it back to these cities. Charity
                        will take anything that is offered, but it doesn't always give in
                        return."
                    At the expiration of the time allotted to the visitor, Graydon took his
                        departure.
                    "Graydon, ask her to think kindly of me if she can."
                    "I'll come down again, father before I go East."
                    "No!" almost shouted James Bansemer. "I
                        won't have it! For my sake, Graydon, don't ever come here
                        again. Don't shame me more than you have to-day. I'll
                        never forget this hour. Stay away and you'll be doing me the
                        greatest kindness in the world. Promise me, boy!"
                    "I can't promise that, dad. It isn't a sane
                        request. I am your son"
                    
                    "My God, boy, don't you see that I can't bear to
                        look at you through these bars? Go! Please go! Good-bye! Write to me, but
                        don't come here again. Don't! It's only a few
                        years."
                    He turned away abruptly, his shoulder drawn upward as if in pain, and Graydon
                        left the place, weakened and sick at heart.
                    Jane and Droom were awaiting him in an outer office. The former looked into
                        his eyes searchingly, tenderly.
                    "I'm so sorry, Graydon," she said as she took his
                        hand in hers.
                    All the way back to Chicago Elias Droom sat and watched them from under
                        lowered brows, wondering why it was that he felt so much lonelier than he
                        ever had felt before,wondering, too, in a vague sort of way, why he was not
                        able to exult, after all.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    THE TRANSFORMING OF DROOM
                    JANE was ill and did not leave her room during the two
                        days following the visit to the penitentiary. She was haunted by the face of
                        James Bansemer, the convict. It was beyond her powers of imagination to
                        recall him as the well-groomed, distinguished man she once had known.
                        Graydon was deeply distressed over the pain and humiliation he had subjected
                        her to through Droom's unfortunate efforts. The fact that she could
                        not or would not see him for two days hurt him more than he could express,
                        even to himself. The day before he left for New York, however, she saw him
                        in their parlour. She was pale and very quiet.
                    Neither mentioned the visit to the prison; there was nothing to say.
                    "You will be in New York next week?" he asked as he arose
                        to leave. His spirit was sore. She again had told him that he must not hope.
                        With an hysterical attempt to lead him on to other topics, she repeated her
                        conversations with Teresa Valesquez, urging him with a hopeless attempt at
                        bravado, to seek out the Spanish girl and marry her. He laughed lifelessly
                        at the jest.
                    "We will leave Chicago on Monday. Father will have his business
                        affairs arranged by that time. I would not let him resign the presidency. It
                        would seem as if I were taking it away from him. We expect to be in Europe
                        for six or eight months. Then, I am coming 
                        back to New York, where I was born, Graydonto work!"
                    He went away with the feeling in his heart that he was not to see her again.
                        A single atom of determination lingered in his soul, however, and he tried
                        to build upon it for the future. Rigby's wedding invitation had
                        come to him that morningalmost as a mockery. He tore it to pieces with a
                        scowl of recollection.
                    Droom's effects were on the way to New York. He hung back, humbly
                        waiting for Graydon to suggest that they should travel East on the same
                        train. His grim, friendless old heart gave a bound of pure joythe first he
                        had knownwhen the young man made the suggestion that night.
                    Together they travelled eastward and homeward, leaving behind them the grey
                        man in stripes.
                    Jane's six months in Europe grew into a yearand longer. It was a
                        long but a profitable year for Graydon Bansemer; he had been enriched not
                        only in wealth but in the hope of ultimate happiness. Not that Jane
                        encouraged him. Far from it, she was more obdurate than ever with an ocean
                        between them. But his atom of determination had grown to a purpose. His face
                        was thinner and his eyes were of a deeper, more wistful grey; they were full
                        of longing for the girl across the sea, and of pity and yearning for the man
                        back there in the West.
                    He had toiled hard and well; he had won. The shadow of '99 still
                        over him, but the year and a new ambition had lessened its blackness.
                        Friends were legion  in the great metropolis;
                        he won his way into the hearts and confidence of new associates and renewed
                        fellowship with the old. Invitations came thickly upon him, but he
                        resolutely turned his back upon most of them. He was not socially hungry in
                        these days.
                    Once a week he wrote to his father, but there never was a reply. He did not
                        expect one, for James Bansemer, in asking him to write, had vowed that his
                        son should never hear from him again until he could speak as a free man and
                        a chastened one. True to his promise, Graydon instituted no movement to
                        secure a pardon. He did, by a strong personal appeal, persuade Denis Harbert
                        to drop further prosecution. There were enough indictments against his
                        father to have kept him behind the bars for life.
                    Elias Droom had rooms in Eighth Avenue not a great distance from Herald
                        Square. He was quite proud of his new quarters. They had many of the
                        unpleasant features of the old ones in Wells Street, but they were less
                        garish in their affront to an aesthetic eye. The incongruous pictures were
                        there and the oddly assorted books, but the new geraniums had a chance for
                        life in the broader windows; the cook stove was in the rear and there was a
                        venerable Chinaman in charge of it; the bedroom was kept so neat and clean
                        that Droom quite feared to upset it with his person. But, most strange of
                        all, was the change in Droom himself.
                    "I've retired from active work," he informed
                        Graydon one day, when that young man stared in astonishment at him.
                        "What's the use, my boy, in Elias Droom dressing like a
                        dog of a workingman, when he is a  gentleman
                        of leisure and affluence? It surprises you to see me in an evening suit, eh?
                        Well, by Jove, my boy, I've got a dinner jacket, a Prince Albert
                        and a silk hat. There are four new suits of clothes hanging up in that
                        closet," he said, adding, with a sarcastic laugh, "That
                        ought to make a perfect gentleman of me, oughtn't it? What are you
                        laughing at?"
                    "I can't help it, Elias. Who would have dreamed that
                        you'd go in for good clothes!"
                    "I used to dream about it, long ago. I swore if I ever got back to
                        New York I'd dress as New Yorkers dresseven if I was a hundred
                        years old. I've got a servant, too. What d'ye think of
                        that? He can't understand a word I say, nor can I understand him.
                        That's why he stays on with me. He doesn't know when
                        I'm discharging him, and I don't know when he's
                        threatening to leave. What do you think of my rooms?"
                    It was Graydon's first visit to the place, weeks after their return
                        to New York. He had not felt friendly to Droom since the day at the proson;
                        but now he was forgetting his resentment, in the determination to wrest from
                        him the names of Jane's father and mother. He was confident that
                        the old man knew.
                    "Better than Wells Street, eh? Well, you see, I was in trade then.
                        Different now. I'm getting to be quite a fop. Do you notice that I
                        say 'By Jove' occasionally?" He gave his raucous
                        laugh of derision. "Dined at Sherry's the other night, old
                        chap," he went on with raw mimicry. "They thought I was a
                        Christian and let me in. I used to look like the devil, you know."
                    
                    "By the Lord Harry, Elias," cried Graydon, "you
                        look like the devil now."
                    "I've got these carpet slippers on because my shoes hurt my
                        feet," explained Droom sourly. "My collar rubbed my neck,
                        so I took it off. Otherwise, I'm just as I was when I got in at
                        Sherry's. Funny what a difference a little thing like a collar
                        makes, isn't it?"
                    "I should say so. I never gave it a thought until now. But, Elias, I
                        want to ask a great favour of you. You can"
                    "My boy, if your father wouldn't tell you who her parents
                        are, don't expect me to do so. He knows; I only suspect."
                    "You must be a mind reader," gasped Graydon.
                    "It isn't hard to read your mind these days. What do you
                        hear from her?" Graydon went back to the subject after a few
                        moments. "I am morally certain that I know who her father and
                        mother were, but it won't do any good to tell her. It
                        didn't make me any better to learn who my father was. It made me
                        wiser, that's all. How's your father?"
                    After this night Graydon saw the old man often. They dined together
                        occasionally in the small cafs on the West Side. Droom could not, for some
                        reason known only to himself, be induced to go to Sherry's again.
                    "When Jane comes back, I'll give you both a quiet little
                        supper there after the play maybe. It'll be my treat, my
                        boy."
                    The old man worked patiently and fruitlessly over his
                        "inventions." They came to naught, but they lightened his
                        otherwise barren existence. There was  not a
                        day or night in which his mind was wholly free from thoughts of James
                        Bansemer.
                    He counted the weeks and days until the man would be free, and his eyes
                        narrowed with these furtive glances into the future. He felt in his heart
                        that James Bansemer would come to him at once, and that the reckoning for
                        his single hour of triumph would be a heavy one to pay. Sometimes he would
                        sit for hours with his eyes staring at the Napoleon above the bookcase,
                        something like dread in their depths. Then again he would laugh with glee,
                        pound the table with his bony handmuch to the consternation of Changand
                        exclaim as if addressing a multitude:
                    "I hope I'll be dead when he gets out of there! I hope I
                        won't live to see him free again. That would spoil everything. Let
                        me see, I'm seventy-one now; I surely can't live much
                        longer. I want to die seeing him as I saw him that day. The last thing I
                        think of on earth must be James Bansemer's face behind the bars.
                        Ha, ha, ha! It was worth all the years, that one hour! It was even worth
                        while being his slave. I'm not afraid of him! No! That's
                        ridiculous. Of course, I'm not afraid of him. I only want to know
                        he's lying in a cell when I die out here in the great, free world!
                        By my soul, he'll know that a handsome face isn't always
                        the best. He laughed at my face, curse him. His face won herhis good looks!
                        Well, well, well, I only hope she's where she can see his face
                        now!"
                    He would work himself into a frenzy of torment and glee combined, usually
                        collapsing at the end of his harangue. It disgusted him to think that his
                        health  was so good that he might be expected
                        to live beyond the limit of James Bansemer's imprisonment.
                    At the end of eighteen months, Jane was coming home. She had written to
                        Graydon from London, and the newspapers announced the sailing of the Cables
                        on one of the White Star steamers.
                    "I am coming home to end all of this idleness," she wrote
                        to him. "I mean to find pleasure in toil, in doing good, in lifting
                        the burdens of those who are helpless. You will see how I can work, Graydon.
                        You will love me more than ever when you see how I can do so much good for
                        my fellow creatures. I want you to love me more and more, because I shall
                        love you to the end of my life."
                    The night before the ship was to arrive Graydon was dining with the Jack
                        Percivals. There were a dozen in the partya blas, bored collection of human
                        beings who had dined out so incessantly that eating was a punishment. They
                        had come to look upon food as a foe to comfort and a grievous obstacle in
                        the path of pleasure. Bridge was just beginning to take hold of them; its
                        grip was tightening with new coils as each night went by. Nobody thought of
                        dinner; the thought was of the delay in getting at the game; an instinct
                        that was not even a thought urged them to abhor the food that had come into
                        their lives so abundantly.
                    Night after night they dined out; night after night they toyed with their
                        forks, ate nothing, drank to hide their yawns, took black coffee and said
                        they enjoyed the food tremendously.
                    Graydon Bansemer was new to this attitude. He was  vigorous and he was not surfeited with food; he had an
                        appetite. Just before six o'clock his host called him up by
                        'phone, and, in a most genial way, advised him to eat a hearty meal
                        before coming up to dinner. Graydon made the mistake of not following this
                        surprising bit of advice.
                    He sat next to Mrs. Percival. She appeared agitated and uncertain. Servants
                        came in with the dishes and almost immediate-y took them
                        away again. No one touched a mouthful of the food; no one except Graydon
                        noticed the celerity with which the plates and their contents were removed;
                        no one felt that he was expected to eat. Graydon, after his first attempt to
                        really eat of the third course, subsided with a look of amazement at his
                        hostess. She smiled and whispered something into his ear. He grew very red
                        and choked withwas it confusion or mirth?
                    Everybody gulped black coffee and everybody puffed violently at cigars and
                        cigarettes and then everybody bolted for the card tables.
                    Jack Percival grasped Graydon's arm and drew him back into the
                        dining-room. He was grinning like an ape.
                    "It worked, by Georgeworked like a charm. Great Scott, what a money
                        and time saver! I was a little worried about you, Bansemer, but I knew the
                        others wouldn't catch on. Great, wasn't it?"
                    "What the dickens does it mean?" demanded Graydon.
                    "Mean! Why, good Lord, man, nobody ever eats at these damned
                        dinners. They can't eat. They're sick of
                        dinners. That crowd out there takes tea and things  at five or six o'clock. They wouldn't any
                        more think of eating anything at a dinner after the caviar and oysters than
                        you'd think of flying. It's a waste of time and money to
                        give 'em real food. This is the second time I've tried my
                        scheme and it's worked both times. I can serve this same dinner
                        twenty times. Everything's made of wax and papier mache. See what I
                        mean? And I'll leave it to you that there isn't a soul out
                        there who is any the wiser. By George, it's a great invention.
                        I'm going to patent it. Come on; let's get in there.
                        They're howling for us to begin."
                    Graydon, his mind full of Jane, played at a table with Colonel Sedgwick, a
                        blas old Knickerbocker whose sole occupation in life was saying rude things
                        about other people. To-night he was particularly attentive to his
                        profession. He kept Graydon and the two women sitting straight and
                        uncomfortable in their chairs between hands and positively chilled while the
                        game went on.
                    Graydon's game was a poor one at best, but he was playing abominably
                        on this occasion. He could not tear his thoughts from the ship that was
                        drawing nearer and nearer to New York harbour with each succeeding minute.
                        In his mind's eye he could look far out over the black waters and
                        see the lonely vessel as it rushed on through the night. He wondered if Jane
                        were asleep or awake and thinking of him.
                    The Colonel's irascibility finally drove him from the game. He
                        apologised for his wretched playing, but the Colonel did not apologise for
                        the disagreeable things he had said.
                    
                    It was one o'clock when Graydon reached his rooms. There he found a
                        note from Elias Droom.
                    "I have an especial reason," he wrote, "for asking
                        you and Miss Cable to dine with me on Monday night. We will go to
                        Sherry's. Let me know as soon as you have seen her."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    ELIAS DROOM'S DINNER PARTY
                    HE was mystified and not a little upset by this almost
                        peremptory summons from the old man. He hurried over to Droom's
                        quarters the next morning, after ascertaining that the steamer would not
                        reach the dock until two or three o'clock. Droom was at work on one
                        of his amazing models.
                    "Hello," he said ungraciously. "I thought I
                        invited you for to-night."
                    "I want to know something about it, Elias," said Graydon,
                        sitting upon the end of the workbench. "She'll not get in
                        before the middle of the afternoon, and she may not feel like going to
                        Sherry's to-night."
                    "Just as she likes," said Droom pettishly. "You
                        mean that she would not like to be seen there with me unless there is to be
                        something in it for her, eh?"
                    "Nonsense. You've got something on your mind, Elias. What
                        is it? Why do you insist on going to-night?"
                    "I don't. It's to-night or not at all, however.
                        I'm not in the habit of letting people decide when I shall dine at
                        Sherry's. If she doesn't want to come, let her say
                        so." That was all Graydon could get out of him, so he left in a
                        more perplexed frame of mind than before.
                    
                    He was at the dock long before the steamer came to a stop after its eight
                        days of ceaseless throbbing. She was waving to him from the rail, her face
                        beaming with happiness. It was just as he had seen it in his dreams of this
                        day. More than ever he arrayed his love against her principle; more than
                        ever was he determined to overcome the obstacles which she had thrown up in
                        her self-arraignment.
                    There was a cold, biting wind blowing, with the suggestion of snow in the
                        skies. The passengers came down with rosy cheeks, coloured by the
                        frost-laden hours on deck. After the tedious, disagreeable hour with the
                        customs officials, the Cables were driven to the Holland House. Graydon
                        Bansemer, sitting opposite to Jane in the carriage, was almost speechless
                        with joy and eagerness. The old restraint was still upon him, but it was
                        being worn down by degrees as he gathered encouragement from the clear,
                        inviting eyes of the girl he worshipped. The love in those happy, glowing
                        eyes could not be mistaken for loyal indifference.
                    She was more beautiful than ever to his hungry, patient eyes; she was more
                        desirable, more priceless. David Cable and his wife had been immensely
                        benefited in every way by their months abroad. Jane and found the sunshine
                        for them and it had been her purpose in all these months to keep them free
                        from the shadows. They had travelled Europe over and they had lived in the
                        full warmth of pleasure.
                    Cable took Graydon aside as they entered the hotel. The latter had implored
                        Jane to give him a few minutes alone at the earliest possible moment.
                    
                    "Tell me about your father, Graydon," said David Cable.
                    "He is still inin Joliet," replied the young man quietly.
                    "He has not offered to help us in clearing up the mystery?"
                    "I have had no word from him, Mr. Cable. He seems to be in his tomb.
                        I am afraid he will not help us, sir. He has said he would not; that means a
                        great deal, I am sorry to say."
                    He then told him of Elias Droom's strange invitation, adding that he
                        believed the old man was ready to reveal all that he knew.
                    "She must go with you to-night, then," said Cable.
                        "It is necessary. She wants to know the truth. She has said
                        so."
                    "It won't matter, sir, so far as I am concerned.
                        She"
                    "She has come back, my boy, determined to go on with her plans. I am
                        sorry, Graydon, but I am at last convinced that she means to give her life
                        to the work."
                    "By Heaven, Mr. Cable, she shall not do it! I can't live
                        without her," cried Graydon miserably. Cable smiled sadly as he
                        shook his head.
                    At half past seven o'clock Jane Cable and Graydon met Droom at
                        Sherry's. She was paler than usual and there was a queer chill in
                        her heart. Bansemer was more nervous than he had ever been before in his
                        life.
                    Elias Droom, the strangest creature in the big restaurant,  arose to greet them as they entered the
                        doors. He had been waiting inside and out for half an hour, and his welcome
                        was quite in keeping with his character. He uttered a few gruff words of
                        greeting to her, accompanied by a perfunctory smile that gave out no warmth;
                        then he started off with rude haste toward the table he had reserved. Not a
                        word concerning her welfare, her health, her return to the homelandno sign
                        of interest or consideration. They followed him silently, anxiously.
                    The old man was conspicuously repulsive in his finery. It is unnecessary to
                        say that his clothes did not fit his lank figure: tailors cannot perform
                        miracles. His long chin was carefully shaven, but the razor could not remove
                        the ruts and creases that hid the thick stubble of grey and black. Not one
                        but one hundred diners looked with curiosity upon the nervous, uncouth old
                        man. There was a buzz of interest and a craning of necks when the crowd saw
                        the handsome couple join him at the table in the corner.
                    "I wish you'd order the dinner for me, Graydon,"
                        he said, rather plaintively. "I can pay for it, Miss
                        Cable," he added with an attempt at joviality, "but
                        I'm no good at ordering. These young swells know all about it. Get
                        champagne, Graydon. Order something nice for Miss Cable. Anywhere up to
                        twenty dollars. I'm not a millionaire, Miss Cable. Tell the waiter
                        I'll pay for it, Graydon. This is a swell place, isn't it,
                        Miss Cable? I've never been in Europe, but they say they
                        can't touch our restaurants over there. Get oysters,
                        Graydon."
                    
                    "By Jove, Elias, you are giving us a treat," laughed
                        Graydon. The old man's mood had changed suddenly. He was beaming in
                        his effort to be agreeable. A glance around the room had convinced him that
                        the prettiest woman there was sitting at his table. He felt a new sense of
                        pride.
                    "I am proud of myself," said Droomand he meant it.
                    "It's very good of you to ask me to come, Mr.
                        Droom," said Jane, her bright eyes meeting his before they could
                        lift themselves into the customary stare above her head.
                    "I'm not so sure about that," said Elias. From
                        time to time he glanced uneasily toward a table at his left. It was set for
                        six persons, none of whom had arrived. "I trust it will not be the
                        last time you will honour me, Miss Cable. I am getting very hospitable in my
                        old age. If you don't mind, Graydon, I won't drink this
                        cocktail. I may take the champagne. I'm quite a teetotaler, you
                        see. Milk, always. By the way, Graydon," he said, turning suddenly
                        to the young man, "I suppose you've led her to believe
                        that I had a motive in asking her to dine to-nightI mean other than the
                        pleasure it would give to me."
                    "II rather thought something of the sort," stammered
                        Graydon.
                    "Well, there is a motive. I've decided at last to tell all
                        I knew. Don't look like that, Miss Cable. You'll attract
                        attention. Calm yourself. It will be some time before the story is
                        forthcoming. Besides, I doubt very much whether you'll get any
                        great satisfaction out of  it, although it may
                        clear things up a bit for you. If you've been hoping that your
                        father and mother well, we'll take our time. Here are the oysters.
                        Oysters make me think of your father, Graydon. Don't choke, my
                        boy," he chuckled as Graydon stiffened quickly. "He had a
                        woman arrested at her own dinner party one nightright over there in Fifth
                        Avenue, too. Search warrant, and all that. The oysters were being served
                        when the papers were served. Ah, he was a great man for effective revenge.
                        She had dared him, you see. Did you ever hear of the other time when he
                        permitted an ignorant host to invite two deadly enemies to the same dinner?
                        One fellow had robbed the other fellow of his wife. Terrible scandal. Your
                        father knew that they expected to kill one another on sight. And yet when
                        the host told him whom he expected to invite he let him ask the two men. He
                        told me about it afterward. It amused him. Everybody but the host knew of
                        the row and there was a panic in the drawing-room."
                    "Good Lord," gasped Graydon, helplessly pushing the oysters
                        away. "Why are you telling me this?"
                    "Oh, it was a great joke. It's a good dinner story. The
                        joke comes in at the end. Both those fellows got tight and went home with
                        their arms about one another. By the way, Graydon, what do you hear from
                        your father?"
                    Graydon looked uncomfortably at Jane, whose face was set with distress.
                    "Elias, you've got no right to" began the young
                        man coldly.
                    
                    "I beg your pardon if I've offended," said Droom
                        abjectly. "II don't know the etiquette of small
                        talkforgive me. I was interested, that is all."
                    "It may interest you to know that I had a long talk with Mr. Clegg
                        this afternoon. He says there is a movement on foot to secure a pardon for
                        father. Father hasn't asked anyone to intercede. It is known that
                        he will go to England to live as soon as he is released. That's an
                        inducement, you see," he said bitterly.
                    Droom's face turned a frozen white; his steely eyes took on a
                        peculiar glaze, and his hand grasped his leg as if it were a vise intended
                        to hold him in his chair.
                    "I haven't told you about it, Jane," went on
                        Graydon. "Mr. Clegg has seen father and he says he is indifferent
                        about it. He intends to leave the country in any event. I am going to write
                        to him to-night, asking him to let them apply for the pardon. It may save
                        him from three years more of servitude. Mr. Clegg is sure he can get his
                        releasewhat's the matter, Elias?"
                    The old clerk's body had stiffened and the look in his face was
                        something horrible to behold. Terror was visible in every lineament. His
                        companions started from their chairs in alarm. With a mighty effort the old
                        man succeeded in regaining a semblance of selfcontrol. His body relaxed, and
                        his jaw dropped; his voice was trembling and weak as he responded, an
                        apologetic grin on his face.
                    "Nothingnothing at all. A momentary pain. Don't mind me.
                        Don't mind me," he mumbled. "I have them often. I
                        think it's my heart. What were you saying,  Graydon? Oh, yes, the pardon. II hope you'll mention
                        me in writing to your father. Tell him I hope toto see him if he comes to
                        New York."
                    "I don't believe he likes you, Elias," said
                        Graydon, half jestingly.
                    "Whawhat has he said to you?" demanded Droom sharply.
                    "He rather resented your taking Jane and me to Joliet that
                        day." The old man's grin was malicious. "He
                        won't forgive you that."
                    "I shall never forget how he looked at you, Mr. Droom,"
                        said Jane with a shudder. Droom trembled with a new spasm of fear.
                    Attention was diverted by the arrival of the party of six. The men were
                        distinguished in appearance, the women aristocratic but spirited. That they
                        were well known to many of the diners in those days at Sherry's was
                        at once apparent; they were bowing right and left to near-by acquaintances.
                        After much ado they finally relapsed into the chairs obsequiously drawn back
                        fro them and the buzz of conversation throughout the place was resumed.
                    Graydon, lowering his voice, named the newcomers to Jane, who looked at them
                        with fresh interest. The names were well known to New York and European
                        society. For the moment Elias Droom was unnoticed. He took the opportunity
                        to collect his nerves and to subdue his too apparent emotion. Jane was
                        recalled from her polite scrutiny of the women at the next table by hearing
                        her name mentioned in Droom's hoarsest voice, modified into
                        something like a whisper.
                    
                    "Miss Cable, I not only asked you to come here in order to tell you
                        the name of your father, but to point him out to you."
                    There was an instant of breathless silence at the table. So startling was his
                        announcement that every other sound in the room escaped the ears of his two
                        listeners.
                    "There was a new hundred dollar bill found in the basket with you.
                        Your grandfather's signature was on that bill. He was the president
                        of the bank which issued it. Your mother was" Here he leaned
                        forward and whispered a name that fairly stunned his hearers. Graydon caught
                        his breath and a new light appeared in his eyes. He was beginning to believe
                        that the old man's brain was affected. Jane leaned forward in her
                        chair, an incredulous smile on her lips.
                    "Don't jest, Elias," began Graydon, somewhat
                        roughly.
                    "I am not jesting. It is the truth, I swear it," snapped
                        Elias.
                    "But, great Heaven, man, consider what you've said.
                        It's one of the best families in this countryit's
                        preposterous to say"
                    "Of course, her family is one of the best. She was a blue stocking.
                        That's where Miss Cable gets most of her good blood."
                    "My God, Elias, I can't believe it!" cried
                        Graydon.
                    Jane was staring blankly at the old man's face.
                    "Your father will tell you the same. For more than twenty years I
                        have known the secret. There is no documentary proof, but this much I do
                        know: James  Bansemer received fifty thousand
                        dollars for keeping his mouth closed. He found out the truth and he profited
                        by it as usual. Oh, he knew that hundred dollar bills are not left with
                        pauper babes. I don't know how he unearthed the truth about
                        Miss"
                    "Sh! Don't mention the name aloud!"
                    "But he did unearth it, beyond all possible chance of mistake. Your
                        father, Miss Cable, is sitting at that table. Don't look up just
                        yet. He is staring at you. He doesn't know you, but he does know
                        you are a pretty woman. The gentleman with the grey hair, Graydon. See? That
                        man is her father."
                    Graydon half started up in his chair, his lips apart, his eyes riveted on the
                        man designated. Every drop of blood seemed to have frozen in his veins.
                    "Good God, Elias!" he whispered. "Why, that
                        is" The name stuck in his throat.
                    "The son of the man who signed the banknote. He is Jane's
                        father. There's blue blood in himthere has been since King
                        Henry's daybut he is a villain for all that. Now, Miss Cable,
                        I've done my duty. I've told you the absolute truth. You
                        could not have expected moreyou could not have asked a greater climax. The
                        name of Vanderbilt or Astor is no better known than that man's
                        name, and no ancestry is better than that of your mother. I will now give to
                        you one of the articles of proof that connects you with their
                        history." He handed to her a small package. "It is the
                        letter written to James Bansemer by your paternal grandfather, agreeing to
                        an appointment to discuss a question of grave moment. I found the letter
                        that  same day, and I've kept it all
                        these years. It bears your grandfather's signature. That is all. I
                        heard part of that interview, and I stake my soul that what I've
                        told you is true."
                    Jane sat looking at him as if paralysed. Her mind was quite incapable of
                        grasping the full import of his wordsthe words she had craved for so many
                        months, and yet dreaded.
                    "I knew he was coming here to-night. He gives a theatre party.
                        To-morrow he goes abroad. That is all."
                    "He's living in Paris," muttered Graydon
                        mechanically. Jane spoke for the first time, as in a daze.
                    "II have seen him many times in Paris. My father? Oh, oh, it
                        can't be true."
                    "Jane, let me take you away from here" began Graydon,
                        observing her pallor.
                    "No. Let me stay. It can't matter, Graydon. I want to look
                        at him again and again," she said, shrinking back as if the whole
                        world were staring at her. By the most prodigious effort she regained
                        control of her fleeing composure. It was a trying moment.
                    "He's worth millions," said Droom. "It
                        will be worth while for you to"
                    "No!" she exclaimed passionately. "Do you think I
                        will present myself to him after he has cast me off! No! a thousand times,
                        no!"
                    At that instant the party of six hurriedly arose to leave the place. The tall
                        man with the grey hairthe handsomest man of allwas staring boldly at
                        Jane's averted face, now red with consciousness. As he passed 
                        
                            "THE HANDSOMEST MAN OF ALLWAS STARING BOLDLY AT
                                JANE'S AVERTED FACE"
                        
                         her in going out of the room, his look grew
                        more insistent. She glanced up and a faint smile crossed his face.
                    "Devilish handsome girl," he remarked to the man behind him
                        and then he passed out of her sight, perhaps forever.
                    "The woman with him?" cried Jane, her eyes following the
                        beautiful creature at his side, "is she my mother?"
                    "No," said Graydon, averting his eyes to avoid her
                        expression; "she is his wife."
                    Droom waited until the party was out of the restaurant before uttering a
                        word.
                    "Inside of two years I have pointed out two fathers to their
                        childrenyours and his, Jane. Your mothers are dead. There isn't
                        much choice as to fathers. If I were you, I'd say I had the better
                        of the bargain. Take an old man's advice, both of you, and let
                        bygones be bygones. Start life now, just as if nothing had happened before,
                        and get every atom of happiness out of it that you can. Don't you
                        two pay for the sins of your fathers."
                    "I couldn't live in New York if he were living
                        here," murmured Jane.
                    "Hey, waiter, your bill," said Droom, with sudden
                        harshness.
                    It was snowing and the wind was blowing a gale when they emerged from the
                        place. Jane hung heavily upon Graydon's arm; he could feel that she
                        was sobbing. He did not dare to look into her face, but he felt something
                        cruelly triumphant surging in his heart. Elias  Droom waited until their cab came up. Then he offered his hand to both,
                        hesitatingly, even timidly.
                    "Good-night. Be happy. There is nothing else left for you but that.
                        Graydon, when you write to your father, give him my love."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    DROOM TRIUMPHS OVER DEATH
                    DROOM stood for a few moments in the hurtling snowstorm,
                        abstractedly gazing toward Longacre Square. The chill in his marrow was not
                        from the blizzard that swept down upon him; the gaunt grey look in his face
                        was not that of hunger or want. There was fever in his brain and chill in
                        his heart. He had forgotten Jane's trivial tragedy; his one
                        overwhelming thought was of James Bansemer.
                    The heavy ulster was unbuttoned and the snowflakes pelted in against his
                        neglected shirt front. A doorman called his attention to the oversight. He
                        came to himself, drew the coat close about his long frame, and hurried off
                        down Fifth Avenue. The storm was so vicious that he boarded a crosstown car
                        at Fortysecond Street. A man elbowed him in the narrow vestibule. He looked
                        up and gasped aloud in sudden terror. An instant later he laughed at his
                        fears; the man was not James Bansemer. A cold perspiration started out over
                        his body, however. Through his brain there went racing the ever-revolving
                        cry:
                    "He'll come straight to mestraight to me!"
                    The hour was not late, but the blizzard had driven the crowds from the
                        streets. Eighth avenue sidewalks were deserted except for the people who
                        were obliged to brave the storm. As Droom hurried south to his lodgings  he became possessed of a racking belief that
                        someone was following close upon his heelssomeone who was rushing up to deal
                        him a murderous blow in the back. The old man actually broke into a frantic
                        run in covering the last half block.
                    It was not until he was in his rooms, with the door bolted that he could rid
                        himself of the dread. The fire had gone out and the light was low. His teeth
                        chattered and his hand shook as he raised the wick in the lamp. The palsy of
                        inexplicable fear was upon him. Kneeling before the stove he began to
                        rebuild the fire. His back was toward the door and he turned an anxious face
                        in that direction from time to time. Footsteps on the stairway sent a new
                        chill through his gaunt frame. They passed on up the next flight, but he
                        waited breathlessly until he heard the door of the apartment above slam
                        noisily.
                    For half an hour he sat huddled in front of the stove without removing his
                        hat and ulster.
                    "Curse the luck," he was saying over and over again to
                        himself, sometimes aloud. "Why should he have a pardon? What are
                        the laws for? Curse that meddling old fool Clegg! They'll set him
                        free, and he'll hunt me out, I know he will. He won't
                        forgive me for that day's work. He may be free nowit may have been
                        he who followed me. But no! That's a silly thing to think. It takes
                        weeks and months to get a pardon. Maybemaybe they won't get it,
                        after all."
                    He tried to throw off his desperate feeling of apprehension, chattering all
                        sorts of comforting reasons and excuses to himself as he scurried about the
                        rooms  with aimless haste. Try as he would,
                        however, when the time came, he could not readnot even of his
                        courage-inspiring Napoleon. The howl of the wind annoyed and appalled him;
                        he caught himself listening intently for sounds above and not of the storm.
                        A nervous, intermittent laugh broke from his lips as he went on cursing
                        himself for a fool to be so disturbed by Graydon's report.
                    "What have I to fear from him? Why should I let that look of his
                        unnerve me so? Why can't I forget it? Itit didn't mean
                        anything. I'm a fool to think of it. Nearly two years ago, that
                        was. Why, he may be" A new thought chased the old one out before it
                        was formed. His eyes caught sight of one of his completed models, standing
                        in the corner. It was the model for the guillotine.
                    For a long time he sat staring at the thing, a hundred impressions forming
                        and reforming in his brain.
                    "I wonder if I'll really die before he is
                        liberated," he was saying dumbly to himself. "I wonder if
                        I will. There's no sign of it now. I'm strong and well
                        enough to live for years. Suppose he is freed inside of a month or two, what
                        then? By Heaven, I'd be losing the dearest hope of my whole life.
                        My last sight of himthat beautiful vision behind the barswould be spoiled,
                        undone, wiped out. He'd be as free as I. I won't die
                        inside of a month, I'm sure. He'd come here and laugh at
                        me and he'd kill me in the end. God! I know he would. He'd
                        have the joy of seeing my pain and terror and defeathe'd see me last! I'd be bloody and crushed and"
                    
                    He checked himself in the midst of these dire forebodings to rise suddenly
                        and cross to the ghastly looking frame with the cords, the hinges, and the
                        great broadaxe that lay harmlessly in the grooves at the top. For many
                        minutes he stood and gazed at the axe, his flesh as cold as ice. Then he
                        tested the cords. The axe dropped heavily to the block below. He smiled with
                        cunning triumph at his own skill.
                    The odour of geranium leaves assailed his nostrils. With an ugly impulse he
                        turned and swept the pots from the window box, scattering them over the
                        floor.
                    "I'm in a devil of a humour," he laughed as he
                        surveyed the wreck. "Something's gone wrong with me.
                        I've never mistreated my flowers before." He lifted the
                        broadaxe to its place, tenderly, almost lovingly. "By my soul,
                        it's a beautiful piece of work. It's as sure as the grave
                        itself."
                    Again he stood off and looked at the infernal bit of his own handiwork, his
                        eyes glistening with dread of the thing. He turned and fled to the opposite
                        side of the room, keeping his back toward the silent guillotine which seemed
                        to be calling to him with mocking yet fascinating persistency.
                    "Curse the thing," he groaned. "Damn it, I
                        didn't make it for my own use. What is the matter with
                        me?" He glanced slyly, fearfully over his shoulder and then faced
                        the thing deliberately, his jaws set, his eyes staring.
                    "It is a quick waya sure way," he muttered. "I
                        haven't anything to live for and but a few years at most. Nobody
                        cares whether I live or dienot even  I. James
                        Bansemer could not batter me down, as he surely will, if I"
                    He crossed to an old chest and unlocked its lid wiht feverish haste. A bundle
                        of papers came up in the grasp of his tense fingers. Casting dreadful
                        glances at the insistent axe, he seated himself at the table and began
                        looking over the papers.
                    "He won't take his father's rotten money, but
                        he'll take mine. It's honest. It represents wages
                        honestly, bitterly earned. There's more than twenty thousand to
                        give him. He'll be surprised. Twenty thousand." He laid
                        the first paper, his will drawn in favour of Graydon Bansemer, signed and
                        addressed, upon the table, and then carelessly tossed the other documents
                        into the chest. "By the Lord Harry, I'll have the best of
                        James Bansemer yet. His boy will take my money even though he spurns his.
                        God, I wish I could see him when he knows all this. It would be
                        glorious."
                    He fingered the document for a tense moment, and then arose to remove his
                        coat and vest. These he hung away in his closet with all his customary
                        carefulness. In the middle of the room he stopped, his quivering face turned
                        toward the gaunt thing of execution. His feet seemed nailed to the floor;
                        his brain was urging him to go on with the horrid deed, his body was
                        rebelling. The torture of terror was overpowering him.
                    Suddenly he found his strength of limb. With a guttural howl he clasped his
                        hands to his eyes and fled blindly into his bedroom. Hurling his long,
                        shivering frame upon the bed, he tried to shut out the enticing call of the
                        thing of death. How long he quivered there, 
                        shuddering and struggling, he could not have told. In the endand as suddenly
                        as he had fledhe leaped up and with a shrill laugh dashed back into the
                        other room.
                    There was no hesitation in his body now. With a maniacal glee he rushed upon
                        the devilish contrivance in the corner, tearing the axe from its place with
                        ruthless hands. Throughout the building rang the sounds of smashing wood,
                        furious blows of steel upon wood, and high above the din arose the laugh of
                        Elias Droom. In two minutes, the guillotine lay in chips and splinters about
                        the roomdestroyed even as it was on the point of destroying him.
                    Dropping back against the wall, wet with perspiration, a triumphant grin upon
                        his face, Elias surveyed the wreckage. His muscles relaxed and his eyes lost
                        the dread that had filled them. The smile actually grew into an expression
                        of sweetness and peace that his face had never known before.
                    As he staggered to a chair close by, a great sigh of relief broke from his
                        lips.
                    "There!" he gasped. "It's over!
                        it's over! My head is on my shouldersit really is after all! It is
                        not rolling into the cornerno! no! By my headmy own head, tooit was a close
                        call for you, Elias Droom. Now, I'll take what comes. I'll
                        wait for James Bansemer! I'll stick it out to the end. If he comes,
                        he'll find me here. I've conquered the infernal death that
                        stood waiting so long for me in that cornerand I never suspected it, either.
                        God, how near it was to me! It stood there and waited for me to come. It
                        knew  that I would come sooner or later! But
                        I've smashed itit's gone! It's not
                        there!"
                    With eager hands he gathered up the pieces of wood and cast them into the
                        stove. As the remains of that frightful minister of death crackled and spit
                        with defeated venom, Elias Droom calmly pulled on his worn dressing gown,
                        lighted his pipe and cocked his feet upon the stove rail, a serene look in
                        his eyes, a chuckle in his throat.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    TO-MORROW
                    JANE CABLE, upon entering the cab,
                        offered no resistance when Graydon drew her head over against his shoulder.
                        His strong right hand clasped her listless fingers and the warmth of his
                        heart came bounding into her veins as if by magic. He did not speak to her,
                        but she knew that he was claiming her then for all time; she knew that
                        nothing could stand in the way of his purpose. The sobs grew less
                        despairing, her understanding of things less vague and uncertain. A few
                        moments before she had felt that she was no kin to the world; now there was
                        a new appreciation of love and its greatness in her soul.
                    This man had loved her, and he would take her up and shield her against the
                        hate of the world. There had not been a moment when her own love for him
                        wavered; she worshipped him now as she had in the beginning. The revelation
                        of Droom, the theatric scenes in the caf, the crushing of the small hope she
                        had cherished, all conspired in this secure moment to waken her into a
                        realisation of what an overbalancing power love is.
                    Unconsciously her fingers tightened upon his and her body drew closer; she
                        was arraying herself against the fear that she might lose this haven of rest
                        and joy, after allthe haven she had been willing to scourge  and destroy in the bitterness of her heart. A
                        great wave of pity for herself came sweeping over her. It grew out of the
                        dread that he might, after all, deny her the place that no one else in the
                        world could give.
                    Graydon's cold face was suddenly illumined; the incomprehensible
                        sweetness of pain rushed through his blood. He had given up his hope as
                        blighted after the harsh hour with Droom; he could not believe his newfound
                        success. Doubt, unbelief, enveloped him as he raised her head, a kiss crying
                        for its kind. His arm crept behind her shoulders. She did not offer a
                        repulse; her wet cheek touched his in submission. It was the first time his
                        hungry arms had held her in centuries it seemed to himand to her; it was the
                        first time their lips had metexcept in dreamssince that horrid night so long
                        ago.
                    "Jane, Jane!" he was whispering in her ear; her plans, her
                        purposes, her sacrifices, were running away from her in riotous disorder.
                        She could not hold them in check; they fled like weaklings before the older
                        and stronger hopes and desires.
                    They did not know of the blockade of cabs at the corner of Forty-second
                        Street, nor how long they stood there. Shouting cabmen and police officers
                        tried to rival the white blizzard in profuseness, but they did not hear
                        them.
                    "Oh, Graydon, I cannot, I must not," she was crying,
                        holding his hand with almost frenzied disdain for the words so plaintively
                        loyal. "It is out of the question, dearest. You know it is. I love
                        you, oh, how I love you. But II must not be your wife. II"
                    
                    "I've had enough of this, Jane," he said so firmly
                        that she stiffened perceptibly in his arms. "It's all
                        confounded rot. Excuse me, but it is. I know you think you're
                        right, but you're not. Old Elias gave the best advice in the world.
                        You know what it was. We've just got to make our own happiness.
                        Nobody else will do it for us, and it's just as easy to be happy as
                        it is to be the other way. I'm tired of pleading. I've
                        waited as long as I intend to. We're going to be married
                        to-morrow."
                    "Graydon!"
                    "Don't refuse! It's no use, dearest.
                        We've lost a year or two. I don't intend to lose another
                        day. What do I care about your father and mother? What did they care about
                        you? You owe all the rest of your life to yourself and to me. Come! will you
                        consent willingly or" He paused. She was very still in his arms for
                        a long time.
                    "I do so want to be happy," she said at last, reflectively.
                        "No, no! don't say anything yet. I am only wondering how
                        it will be after we've been married for a few years. When
                        I'm growing old and plain, and you begin to tire of me as most men
                        grow weary of their wiveswhat then? Ah, Graydon, II have thought about all
                        that, too. You'll never reproach me openlyyou couldn't do
                        that, I know. But you may secretly nourish the scorn which"
                    "Jane," he said, dropping the tone of confident authority
                        and speaking very tenderly, "you forget that my father is a
                        convict. You forget that he has done things which will forever keep me a
                        beggar at  your feet. I am asking you to forget and overlook much more than you could ever ask of
                        me. Old Elias, wretch that he is, has pointed out our ways for us; they run
                        together in spite of what may conspire to divide them. Jane, I love my soul,
                        but I love you ten thousand times better than my soul."
                    "I did not believe I could ever be so happy again," she
                        murmured, putting her hands to his face.
                    "To-morrow, dear?"
                    "Yes."
                    Graydon, rejoicing in his final victory, hurried to his rooms later in the
                        evening. As he was about to enter the elevator he noticed a grey-suited boy
                        in brass buttons, who stood near by, an inquiring look in his face.
                    "This is Mr. Bansemer," observed the laconic youth who ran
                        the single elevator in the apartment building.
                    "Something for me?" demanded Graydon, turning to the boy in
                        grey.
                    "Special delivery letter, sir. Sign here."
                    Graydon took the thick envelope from the boy's hand. With a start,
                        he recognised his father's handwriting. Curiously he turned the
                        letter over in his fingers as he ascended in the car, wonder growing in his
                        brain. He did not wait to remove his overcoat on entering his rooms, but
                        strode to the light and nervously tore open the envelope. Dread, hope,
                        anxiety, conspired to make his fingers tremble. There were many closely
                        written pages. How well he remembered his father's writing!
                    As he read, his eyes grew wide with wonder and unbelief.  They raced through the pages, wonder giving way to joy and
                        exultation as he neared the end of the astounding message from the far-away
                        prisoner.
                    A shout forged to his lips; he hugged the letter to his heart; tears came
                        into his eyes, a sob broke in his throat.
                    "Thank God!" he cried, throwing himself into a chair to
                        eagerly read and reread the contents of the letter. Suddenly he sprang to
                        his feet and dashed across the room to the telephone.
                    "She will die of joy!" he half sobbed, in the transports of
                        exhilaration. Five minutes later he was on his way to her hotel, clutching
                        the priceless letter in his bare fingers, deep down in his overcoat pocket.
                        He had shouted over the 'phone that the good news would not keep
                        till morning, and she was waiting up for him with Mr. and Mrs. Cable,
                        consumed by curiosity.
                    "This letter"he gasped, as he entered the room
                        "from father. He's written, Janeeverything. I knew he
                        would. Elias didn't know it all. He knew half of the truth,
                        that's all. Good Lord, II can't read it, Mr. Cable.
                        Youplease."
                    David Cable, white-faced and trembling, read aloud the letter from James
                        Bansemer. It was to "My beloved son." The first appealing
                        sentences were given to explanation and apology for the determined silence
                        he had maintained for so many months. He spoke casually of his utter
                        indifference to the success of certain friends who were working for his
                        pardon. "If they secure my release," he wrote, "I
                        shall find happiness if you clasp my hand but once before I leave America
                             forever." Farther on he said:
                        "I will not accept parole. It is a poor premium on virtue, and, as
                        you know, my stock of that commodity has been miserably low."
                    "I may be required to serve my full term," read David
                        Cable. "In that case, we should not see one another for years, my
                        son. You have much to forgive and I have much more to forget. We can best
                        see our ways to the end if we seek them apart. The dark places
                        - seem so black... My sole purpose in writing this letter
                        to you, my son, is to give back to you as much happiness as I can possibly
                        extract from this pile of misery. I am not pleading for anything; I am
                        simply surrendering to the good impulses that are once more coming into
                        their own, after all these years of subjection... I am not apologising to
                        the Cables. I am doing this for your sake and for the girl who has wronged
                        no one and to whom I have acted with a baseness which amazes me as I reflect
                        upon it inside these narrow walls.
                    "You will recall that I would have permitted you to marry herI mean,
                        in the beginning. Perhaps it was spite which interposed later on. At least,
                        be charitable enough to call it that. Clegg has been here to see me. He says
                        you are bound to make Jane Cable your wife. I knew you would. For a long
                        time I have held out, unreasonably, I admit, against having her as my
                        daughter. I could not endure the thought of giving you up altogether.
                        Don't you comprehend my thought? I cannot bring myself to look
                        again into her eyes after what she saw in this accursed  prison... She was born in wedlock... The story is not a long
                        one. Elias Droom knows the names of her father and mother, but I am
                        confident that he does not know all of the circumstances. For once, I was
                        too shrewd for him. The story of my dealings in connection with Jane Cable
                        is a shameful one, and I cannot hope for pardon, either from you or from
                        her."
                    Here he related, as concisely as possible, the incidents attending Mrs.
                        Cable's first visit to his office and the subsequent adoption of
                        the babe.
                    "I knew that there was wealth and power behind the mystery. There
                        was a profitable scandal in the background. Unknown to Mrs. Cable, I began
                        investigations of my own. She had made little or no effort to discover the
                        parents of the child. She could have had no purpose in doing so,
                        I'll admit... [Here he gave in detail the progress of his
                        investigations at the Foundlings' Home, at the health office, at
                        certain unsavory hospitals and in other channels of possibility.] ...At
                        last, I found the doctor, and then the nurse. After that, it was easy to
                        unearth the records of a child's birth and of a mother's
                        deathall in New York City... Droom can tell you the names of Jane's
                        parents, substantiating the names I have just given to you. He did not know
                        that they had been married nearly two years prior to the birth of the child.
                        It was a clandestine marriage... I went straight to the father of the
                        foundling. He was then but little more than twenty-one years of agea wild,
                        ruthless, overbearing, heartless scoundrel, who had more money  but a much smaller conscience than I...
                        To-day he is a great and, I believe, respected gentleman, for he comes of
                        good stock... I had him trembling on his knees before me. He told me the
                        truth. Egad, my son, I am rather proud of that hour with him.
                    "It seems that this young scion of a wealthy house had lost his
                        insecure heart to the daughter of a real aristocrat. I say real, because her father was a pure Knickerbocker of the old
                        school. He was, naturally, as poor as poverty itself. With his beautiful
                        daughter he was living in lower New Yorkbarely subsisting, I may say, on the
                        meagre income that found its way to him through the upstairs lodgers in the
                        old home. Here lived Jane's mother, cherishing the traditions of
                        her blood, while her father, sick and feeble, brooded over the days when he
                        was a king in Babylon. The handsome, wayward lover came into her life when
                        she was nineteen. They were married secretly in the city of Boston.
                    "The young husband imposed silence until after he had attained his
                        majority. There was a vast fortune at stake. In plain words, his father had
                        forbidden the marriage. He had selected another one to be the wife of his
                        son... Jane was born in the second year of their wedded life. It was, of
                        course, important that the fact should be kept secret. I am inclosing a slip
                        of paper containing the names of the minister, the doctor and the nurse who
                        afterwards attended her, together with the record of death. It is more
                        convenient to handle than this bulky letterwhich I trust you will destroy.
                        You will also find the name of the  hospital
                        in which Jane was born and where her mother died, ten days later. I may say,
                        in this connection, that not one of the persons mentioned knew the true name
                        of the young mother, nor were they sure of the fact that she was a wife. Her
                        gravestone in the old cemetery bears the name of the maiden, not the wife.
                        Her father never knew the truth...
                    "What I did in the premises need not be told. That is a part of my
                        past. I learned how the cowardly young father, glad to be out of the affair
                        so easily, hired the nurse to leave the baby on the doorstep. Then I went to
                        the banker whose son he was. I had absolute proof of the marriage. He paid
                        me well to keep the true story from reaching the public. The son was whisked
                        abroad and he afterwards married the girl of his father's choice. I
                        do not believe that he has ever given a thought to the whereabouts or
                        welfare of his child. It was her heritage of caste!
                    "If Jane cares to claim her rights as this man's lawful
                        daughter, proof is ample and undeniable. I fancy, however, she will find
                        greater joy as the daughter of David Cable. Her own father has less of a
                        heart than yours, for, after all, my son, I love you because you are mine.
                        Love me, if you can; I have nothing else left that I care for. Remember that
                        I am always
                    Your loving father, JAMES BANSEMER."
                    
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
