
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. In Pastures New: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2420
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
                IN PASTURES NEW
                
            
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                    
                        Holds it the same as a slide trombone
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    IN PASTURES NEW
                
                BY
                    GEORGE ADE
                
                    NEW YORK
                    McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO.
                    MCMVI
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                
                    Copyright, 1906, by
                     McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO.
                Published, October, 1906
                Copyright, 1906, by George Ade
            
            
            
            	ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                
                    Many of the letters appearing in this volume were printed in a
                        syndicate of newspapers in the early months of 1906. With these letters have
                        been incorporated extracts from letters written to the Chicago Record in
                        1895 and 1898. For the use of the letters which first appeared in the
                        Chicago Record, acknowledgment is due Mr. Victor F. Lawson.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    In London
                
                
                    I. GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
                            3
                    II. A LIKE ON THE OCEAN WAVE, WITH MODERN
                            VARIATIONS 17
                    III. WITH MR. PEASLEY IN DARKEST LONDON
                        37
                    IV. HOW IT FEELS TO GET INTO LONDON AND THEN BE ENGULFED
                        55
                    V. AS TO THE IMPORTANCE OF THE PASSPORT AND THE HANDY LITTLE CABLE CODE
                         63
                    VI. WHAT ONE MAN PICKED UP IN LONDON AND SENT
                            BACK TO HIS BROTHER
                         72
                
                
                    In Paris
                
                
                    VII. HOW AN AMERICAN ENJOYS LIFE FOR EIGHT MINUTES AT A TIME
                            83
                    VIII. A CHAPTER OF FRENCH JUSTICE AS DEALT OUT IN THE DREYFUS CASE
                         90
                    IX. THE STORY OF WHAT HAPPENED TO AN AMERICAN
                            CONSUL
                         98
                
                
                    In Naples
                
                
                    X. MR. PEASLEY AND HIS VIVID IMPRESSIONS OF FOREIGN PARTS
                            117
                
                
                
                    In Cairo
                
                
                    XI. CAIRO AS THE ANNUAL STAMPING GROUND FOR AMERICANS AND WHY THEY MAKE THE TRIP
                         135
                    XII. ROUND ABOUT CAIRO, WITH AND
                        WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF THE DRAGOMAN
                            OR SIMON LEGREE OF THE ORIENT
                         152
                    XIII. ALL ABOUT OUR VISIT TO THE
                            PYRAMID OF CHEOPS
                         168
                    XIV. DASHING UP THE NILE IN COMPANY WITH MR. PEASLEY AND OTHERS
                         185
                    XV. DAY BY DAY ON THE DROWSY NILE, WITH SOMETHING ABOUT THE WONDERFUL HASSIM
                         203
                    XVI. THE MOHAMMEDAN FLY AND OTHER CREATURES ALONG THE NILE
                         225
                    XVII. IN AND AROUND LUXOR, WITH A
                            SIDE LIGHT ON RAMESES THE GREAT
                         242
                    XVIII. THE ORDINARY HUMAN FAILINGS OF THE ANCIENT
                            MOGULS
                         261
                    XIX. ROYAL TOMBS AND OTHER PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
                            274
                
                
                    In Cairo
                
                
                    XX. MR. PEASLEY AND HIS FINAL SIZE-UP OF EGYPT
                         293
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	IN PASTURES NEW
                
                    IN LONDON
                    
                    IN LONDON
                    
                        CHAPTER I
                        GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH THE ENGLISH
                            LANGUAGE
                        
                            I
                            T may be set down as a safe proposition that every
                            man is a bewildered maverick when he wanders out of his own little
                            bailiwick. Did you ever see a stock broker on a stock farm, or a cow
                            puncher at the Waldorf?
                        A man may be a large duck in his private puddle, but when he strikes deep
                            and strange waters he forgets how to swim.
                        Take some captain of industry who resides in a large city of the Middle
                            West. At home he is unquestionably IT. Everyone knows the size of his
                            bank account, and when he rides down to business in the morning the
                            conductor of the trolley holds the car for him. His fellow passengers
                            are delighted to get a favouring nod from him. When he sails into the
                            new office building the elevator captain gives him a cheery but
                            deferential "good morning." In his private office he
                            sits at a $500 roll top desk from Grand Rapids, surrounded by push
                            buttons, and  when he gives the word someone
                            is expected to hop. At noon he goes to his club for luncheon. The head
                            waiter jumps over two chairs to get at him and relieve him of his hat
                            and then leads him to the most desirable table and hovers over him even
                            as a mother hen broods over her first born.
                        This Distinguished Citizen, director of the First National Bank, trustee
                            of the Cemetery Association, member of the Advisory Committee of the Y.
                            M. C. A., president of the Saturday Night Poker Club, head of the
                            Commercial Club, and founder of the Wilson County Trotting Association,
                            is a whale when he is seated on his private throne in the corn belt. He
                            rides the whirlwind and commands the storm. The local paper speaks of
                            him in bated capital letters, and he would be more or less than human if
                            he failed to believe that he was a very large gun.
                        Take this same Business Behemoth and set him down in Paris or Rome or
                            Naples. With a red guide book clutched helplessly in his left hand and
                            his right hand free, so that he can dig up the currency of the realm
                            every thirty seconds, he sets forth to become acquainted with medival
                            architecture and the work of the old masters. He is just as helpless and
                            apprehensive as a country boy at Coney 
                            Island. The guides and cabmen bullyrag him. Newsboys and beggars pester
                            him with impunity. Children in the street stop to laugh at his Kansas
                            City hat known to the trade as a Fedora. When he goes into a shop the
                            polite brigand behind the showcase 
                                
                                    Stop to laugh at his Kansas City hat
                                
                             charges him two prices and gives him bad money for change.
                        Why? Because he is in a strange man's town, stripped of his
                            local importance and battling with a foreign language. The man who
                            cannot talk back immediately becomes a weakling.
                        What is the chief terror to travel? It is the lonesomeness  of feeling that one cannot adapt himself to
                            the unfamiliar background and therefore is sure to attract more or less
                            attention as a curio. And in what city does this feeling of lonesomeness
                            become most overwhelming? In London.
                        The American must go to England in order to learn for a dead certainty
                            that he does not speak the English language. On the Continent if he
                            kicks on the charges and carries a great deal of hand luggage and his
                            clothes do not fit him any too well he may be mistaken for an
                            Englishman. This great joy never awaits him in London.
                        I do not wish to talk about myself, yet I can say with truthfulness that
                            I have been working for years to enrich the English language. Most of
                            the time I have been years ahead of the dictionaries. I have been so far
                            ahead of the dictionaries that sometimes I fear they will never catch
                            up. It has been my privilege to use words that are unknown to Lindley
                            Murray. Andrew Lang once started to read my works and then sank with a
                            bubbling cry and did not come up for three days.
                        It seems that in my efforts to enrich the English language I made it too
                            rich, and some who tried it afterward complained of mental gastritis. In
                            one of my fables, written in pure and undefiled Chicago,  reference was made to that kind of a table d'hte restaurant which serves an
                            Italian dinner for sixty cents. This restaurant was called a
                            "spaghetti joint." Mr. Lang declared that the
                            appellation was altogether preposterous, as it is a well-known fact that
                            spaghetti has no joints, being invertebrate and quite devoid of osseous
                            tissue, the same as a caterpillar. Also he thought that
                            "cinch" was merely a misspelling of
                            "sink," something to do with a kitchen. Now if an
                            American reeking with the sweet vernacular of his native land cannot
                            make himself understood by one who is familiar with all the ins and outs
                            of our language, what chance has he with the ordinary Londoner, who gets
                            his vocabulary from reading the advertisements carried by sandwich
                            men?
                        This pitiful fact comes home to every American when he arrives in
                            Londonthere are two languages, the English and the American. One is
                            correct; the other is incorrect. One is a pure and limpid stream; the
                            other is a stagnant pool, swarming with bacilli. In front of a shop in
                            Paris is a sign, "English spokenAmerican understood."
                            This sign is just as misleading as every other sign in Paris. If our
                            English cannot be understood right here in England, what chance have we
                            among strangers?
                        
                        One of the blessed advantages of coming here to England is that every
                            American, no matter how old he may be or how often he has assisted at
                            the massacre of the mother tongue, may begin to get a correct line on
                            the genuine English speech. A few Americans, say fifty or more in Boston
                            and several in New York, are said to speak English in spots. Very often
                            they fan, but sometimes they hit the ball. By patient endeavor they have
                            mastered the sound of "a" as in
                            "father," but they continue to call a clerk a clerk,
                            instead of a "clark," and they never have gained the
                            courage to say "leftenant." They wander on the suburbs
                            of the English language, nibbling at the edges, as it were. Anyone
                            living west of Pittsburg is still lost in the desert.
                        It is only when the Pilgrim comes right here to the fountain head of the
                            Chaucerian language that he can drink deep and revive his parched
                            intellect. For three days I have been camping here at the headwaters of
                            English. Although this is my fourth visit to London and I have taken a
                            thorough course at the music halls and conversed with some of the most
                            prominent shopkeepers on or in the Strand, to say nothing of having
                            chatted almost in a spirit of democratic equality with some of the most
                            representative waiters, I still feel as if were a little child  playing by the seashore while the great
                            ocean of British idioms lies undiscovered before me.
                        Yesterday, however, I had the rare and almost delirious pleasure of
                            meeting an upper class Englishman. He has family, social position,
                            wealth, several capital letters trailing after his name (which is long
                            enough without an appendix), an ancestry, a glorious past and possibly a
                            future. Usually an American has to wait in London eight or ten years
                            before he meets an Englishman who is not trying to sell him dress shirts
                            or something to put on his hair. In two short dayspractically at one
                            boundI had realised the full ambition of my countrymen.
                        Before being presented to the heavy swell I was taken into the chamber of
                            meditation by the American who was to accompany me on this flight to
                            glory. He prepared me for the ceremony by whispering to me that the chap
                            we were about to meet went everywhere and saw everybody; that he was a
                            'varsity man and had shot big game and had a place up country,
                            and couldn't remember the names of all his clubshad to hire a
                            man by the year just to remember the names of his clubs.
                        May I confess that I was immensely flattered to know that I could meet
                            this important person? When we are at long range we throw bricks at the
                                 aristocracy and landed gentry, but
                            when we come close to them we tremble violently and are much 
                                
                                    Just to remember the names of his clubs
                                
                             pleased if they differentiate us from the furniture of the
                            room.
                        Why not tell the truth for once? I was tickled  and overheated with bliss to know that this social lion was
                            quite willing to sit alongside of me and breathe the adjacent
                            atmosphere.
                        Also I was perturbed and stage frightened because I knew that I spoke
                            nothing but the American language, and that probably I used my nose
                            instead of my vocal chords in giving expression to such thoughts as
                            might escape from me. Furthermore, I was afraid that during our
                            conversation I might accidentally lapse into slang, and I knew that in
                            Great Britain slang is abhorred above every other earthly thing except
                            goods of German manufacture. So I resolved to be on my guard and try to
                            come as near to English speech as it is possible for anyone to come
                            after he has walked up and down State Street for ten years.
                        My real and ulterior motive in welcoming this interview with a registered
                            Englishman was to get, free of charge, an allopathic dose of 24-karat
                            English. I wanted to bask in the bright light of an intellect that had
                            no flickers in it and absorb some of the infallibility that is so
                            prevalent in these parts.
                        We met. I steadied myself and said:"I'm glad to know
                            you that is, I am extremely pleased to have the honour of making your
                            acquaintance."
                        
                        He looked at me with a kindly light in his steel blue eye, and after a
                            short period of deliberation spoke as
                            follows:"Thanks."
                        "The international developments of recent years have been such
                            as should properly engender a feeling of the warmest brotherhood between
                            all branches of the Anglo-Saxon race," I said. "I
                            don't think that any fair-minded American has it in for Great
                            Britainthat is, it seems to me that all former resentment growing out of
                            early conflicts between the two countries has given way to a spirit of
                            tolerant understanding. Do you not agree with me?"
                        He hesitated for a moment, as if not desiring to commit himself by a
                            hasty or impassioned reply, and then delivered himself as
                            follows:"Quite."
                        "It seems to me," I said, following the same line of
                            thought, "that fair-minded people on both sides of the water
                            are getting sorethat is, losing patience with the agitators who preach
                            the old doctrine that our altitude toward Great Britain is necessarily
                            one of enmity. We cannot forget that when the European Powers attempted
                            to concert their influence against the United States at the outset of
                            the late war with Spain you bluffed them outthat is, you induced them to
                            relinquish their unfriendly intentions. Every thoughtful man in America
                            is on to 
                            
                                
                                    "Thanks"
                                
                            
                             this factthat is, he understands how
                            important was the service you rendered usand he is correspondingly
                            grateful. The American people and the English people speak the same
                            language, theoretically. Our interests are practically identical in all
                            parts of the worldthat is, we are trying to do everybody, and so are
                            you. What I want to convey is that neither nation can properly work out
                            its destiny except by co-operating with the other. Therefore any policy
                            looking toward a severance of friendly relations is unworthy of
                            consideration."
                        "Rot!" said he.
                        "Just at present all Americans are profoundly grateful to the
                            British public for its generous recognition of the sterling qualities of
                            our beloved Executive," I continued. "Over in the
                            States we think that 'Teddy' is the goodsthat is, the
                            people of all sections have unbounded faith in him. We think he is on
                            the levelthat is, that his dominant policies are guided by the spirit of
                            integrity. As a fairminded Briton, who is keeping in touch with the
                            affairs of the world, may I ask you your candid opinion of President
                            Roosevelt?"
                        After a brief pause he spoke as follows:"Ripping!"
                        "The impulse of friendliness on the part of the  English people seems to be more evident
                            year by year," I continued. "It is now possible for
                            Americans to get into nearly all the London hotels. You show your faith
                            in our monetary system by accepting all the collateral we can bring
                            over. No identification is necessary. Formerly the visiting American was
                            asked to give references before he was separated from his incomethat is,
                            before one of your business institutions would enter into negotiations
                            with him. Nowadays you see behind the chin whisker the beautiful trade
                            mark of consanguinity. You say, 'Blood is thicker than
                            water,' and you accept a five-dollar bill just the same as if
                            it were an English sovereign worth four dollars and eighty-six
                            cents."
                        "Jolly glad to get it," said he.
                        "Both countries have adopted the gospel of
                            reciprocity," I said, warmed by this sudden burst of
                            enthusiasm. "We send shiploads of tourists over here. You send
                            shiploads of English actors to New York. The tourists go home as soon as
                            they are brokethat is, as soon as their funds are exhausted. The English
                            actors come home as soon as they are independently rich. Everybody is
                            satisfied with the arrangement and the international bonds are further
                            strengthened. Of course, some of the English actors blow upthat is, fail
                            to meet with any great measure  of
                            financial successwhen they get out as far as Omaha, but while they are
                            mystifying the American public some of our tourists are going around
                            London mystifying the British public. Doubtless you have seen some of
                            these tourists?"
                        The distinguished person nodded his head in grave acquiescence and then
                            said with some feeling:"Bounders!"
                        "In spite of these breaches of international faith the situation
                            taken as a whole is one promising an indefinite continuation of cordial
                            friendship between the Powers," I said. "I am darned
                            glad that such is the case; ain't you?"
                        "Rather," he replied.
                        Then we parted.
                        It was really worth a long sea voyage to be permitted to get the English
                            language at first hand; to revel in its unexpected sublimities, and gaze
                            down new and awe-inspiring vistas of rhetorical splendour.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II
                        A LIFE ON THE OCEAN WAVE, WITH MODERN
                            VARIATIONS
                        
                            A
                            MONTH before sailing I visited the floating
                            skyscraper which was to bear us away. It was hitched to a dock in
                            Hoboken, and it reminded me of a St. Bernard dog tied by a silken
                            thread. It was the biggest skiff afloat, with an observatory on the roof
                            and covered porches running all the way around. It was a very large
                            boat.
                        After inspecting the boat and approving of it, I selected a room with
                            southern exposure. Later on, when we sailed, the noble craft backed into
                            the river and turned round before heading for the Old World, and I found
                            myself on the north side of the ship, with nothing coming in at the
                            porthole except a current of cold air direct from Labrador.
                        This room was on the starboard or port side of the shipI forget which.
                            After travelling nearly one million miles, more or less, by steamer, I
                            am still unable to tell which is starboard and which is port. I can tell
                            time by the ship's bell if you let me use a  pencil, but "starboard"
                            means nothing to me. In order to make it clear to the reader, I will say
                            that the room was on the "haw" side of the boat. I
                            thought I was getting the "gee" side as the vessel lay
                            at the dock, but I forgot that it had to turn 
                                
                                    I complained to one of the officers
                                
                             around in order to start for Europe, and I found myself
                            "haw." I complained to one of the officers and said
                            that I had engaged a stateroom with southern exposure. He said they
                            couldn't back up  all the way
                            across the Atlantic just to give me the sunny side of the boat. This
                            closed the incident. He did explain, however, that if I remained in the
                            ship and went back with them I would have southern exposure all the way
                            home.
                        Our ship was the latest thing out. To say that it was about seven hundred
                            feet long and nearly sixty feet beam and 42,000 tons displacement does
                            not give a graphic idea of its huge proportions. A New Yorker might
                            understand if told that this ship, stood on end, would be about as tall
                            as two Flatiron buildings spliced end to end.
                        Out in Indiana this comparison was unavailing, as few of the residents
                            have seen the Flatiron Building and only a small percentage of them have
                            any desire to see it. So when a Hoosier acquaintance asked me something
                            about the ship I led him out into Main Street and told him that it would
                            reach from the railroad to the Presbyterian church. He looked down
                            street at the depot and then he looked up street at the distant
                            Presbyterian church, and then he looked at me and walked away. Every
                            statement that I make in my native town is received with doubt. People
                            have mistrusted me ever since I came home years ago and announced that I
                            was working.
                        Evidently he repeated what I had said, for in a  few minutes another resident came up and casually asked me
                            something about the ship and wanted to know how long she was. I repeated
                            the Presbyterian church story. He merely remarked "I thought
                            'Bill' was lyin' to me," and then
                            went his way.
                        It is hard to live down a carefully acquired reputation, and therefore
                            the statement as to the length of the vessel was regarded as a specimen
                            outburst of native humour. When I went on to say that the bout would
                            have on board three times as many people as there were in our whole
                            town, that she had seven decks, superimposed like the layers of a jelly
                            cake, that elevators carried passengers from one deck to another, that a
                            daily newspaper was printed on board, and that a brass band gave
                            concerts every day, to say nothing of the telephone exchange and the
                            free bureau of information, then all doubt was dispelled and my local
                            standing as a dealer in morbid fiction was largely fortified.
                        The chief wonder of our new liner (for all of us had a proprietary
                            interest the moment we came aboard) was the system of elevators. Just
                            think of it! Elevators gliding up and down between decks the same as in
                            a modern office building. Very few passengers used the elevators, but it
                            gave us something to talk about on board ship and it would give  us something to blow about after we had
                            returned home.
                        Outside of the cage stood a young German with a blonde pompadour and a
                            jacket that came just below his shoulder blades. He was so clean he
                            looked as if he had been scrubbed with soap and then rubbed with
                            holystone. Every German menial on board seemed to have two guiding
                            ambitions in life. One was to keep himself immaculate and the other was
                            to grow a U-shaped moustache, the same as the one worn by the
                            Kaiser.
                        The boy in charge of the elevator would plead with people to get in and
                            ride. Usually, unless he waylaid them, they would forget all about the
                            new improvement and would run up and down stairs in the old-fashioned
                            manner instituted by Noah and imitated by Christopher Columbus.
                        This boy leads a checkered career on each voyage. When he departs from
                            New York he is the elevator boy. As the vessel approaches Plymouth,
                            England, he becomes the lift attendant. At Cherbourg he is transformed
                            into a garcon d'ascenscur, and as the ship
                            draws near Hamburg he is the Aufzugsbehueter, which is
                            an awful thing to call a mere child.
                        Goodness only knows what will be the ultimate result of present
                            competition between ocean liners. As  our
                            boat was quite new and extravagantly up-to-date, perhaps some
                            information concerning it will be of interest, even to those old and
                            hardened travellers who have been across so often that they no longer
                            set down the run of the ship and have ceased sending pictorial
                            post-cards to their friends at home.
                        In the first place, a telephone in every room, connected with a central
                            station. The passenger never uses it, because when he is a thousand
                            miles from shore there is no one to be called up, and if he needs the
                            steward he pushes a button. But it is therea real German telephone,
                            shaped like a broken pretzel, and anyone who has a telephone in his room
                            feels that he is getting something for his money.
                        After two or three lessons any American can use a foreign telephone. All
                            he has to learn is which end to put to his ear and how to keep two or
                            three springs pressed down all the time he is talking. In America he
                            takes down the receiver and talks into the 'phone. Elsewhere he
                            takes the entire telephone down from a rack and holds it the same as a
                            slide trombone.
                        In some of the cabins were electric hair curlers. A Cleveland man who
                            wished to call up the adjoining cabin on the 'phone, just to
                            see if the thing would 
                            
                                
                                    Holds it the same as a slide trombone
                                
                            
                             work, put the hair curler to his ear and
                            began talking into the dynamo. There was no response, so he pushed a
                            button and nearly ruined his left ear. It was a natural mistake. In
                            Europe, anything attached to the wall is liable to be a telephone.
                        On the whole, I think our telephone system is superior to that of any
                            foreign cities. Our telephone girls have larger vocabularies, for one
                            thing. In England the "hello" is never used. When an
                            Englishman gathers up the ponderous contrivance and fits it against his
                            head he asks:"Are you there?" If the other man answers
                            "No," that stops the whole conversation.
                        Travellers throughout the world should rise up and unite in a vote of
                            thanks to whoever it was that abolished the upper berth in the newer
                            boats. Mahomet's coffin suspended in mid air must have been a
                            cheery and satisfactory bunk compared with the ordinary upper berth.
                            Only a trained athlete can climb into one of them. The woodwork that you
                            embrace and rub your legs against as you struggle upward is very cold.
                            When you fall into the clammy sheets you are only about six inches from
                            the ceiling. In the early morning the sailors scour the deck just
                            overhead and you feel as if you were getting a shampoo. The arial
                            sarcophagus is built deep, like a trough, 
                            so that the prisoner cannot roll out during the night. It is narrow, and
                            the man who is addicted to the habit of "spraddling"
                            feels as if he were tied hand and foot.
                        In nearly all of the staterooms of the new boat there were no upper
                            berths, and the lower ones were wide and springythey were almost beds,
                            and a bed on board ship is something that for years has been reserved as
                            the special luxury of the millionaire.
                        I like the democracy of a shipboard community. You take the most staid
                            and awe-inspiring notable in the world, bundle him in a damp storm-coat
                            and pull a baggy travelling cap down over his ears and there is none so
                            humble as to do him reverence. One passenger may say to another as this
                            great man teeters along the deck, squinting against the wind:
                            "Do you know who that man is?"
                        "No, who is it?"
                        "That's William Bilker, the millionaire philanthropist.
                            He owns nearly all the coke ovens in the worldhas built seven
                            theological seminaries. He's going to Europe to escape a
                            Congressional investigation."
                        That is the end of it so far as any flattering attentions to Mr. Bilker
                            are concerned. If he goes  in the
                            smoking-room some beardless youth will invite him to sit in a game of
                            poker. His confidential friend at the table may be a Montana miner, a
                            Chicago real estate agent or a Kentucky horseman. He may hold himself
                            aloof from the betting crowd and discourage those who would talk with
                            him on deck, but he cannot by any possibility be a man of importance.
                            Compared with the captain, for instance, he is a worm. And the captain
                            draws probably $2500 a year. It must be a lot of fun to stay on board
                            ship all the time. Otherwise the ocean liner could not get so many high
                            class and capable men to work for practically nothing.
                        On the open sea a baby is much more interesting than a railway president
                            and juveniles in general are a mighty welcome addition to the passenger
                            list. If a child in the house is a wellspring of pleasure, then a child
                            on a boat is nothing less than a waterspout. The sea air, with its cool
                            vapours of salt and iodine, may lull the adult into one continuous and
                            lazy doze, but it is an invigorant to the offspring. We had on board
                            children from Buffalo, Chicago, Jamestown, Poughkeepsie, Worcester,
                            Philadelphia, and other points. These children traded names before the
                            steamer got away from the dock, and as we went down the bay under a
                            bright sunshine they  were so full of
                            emotion that they ran madly around the upper decks, shrieking at every
                            step. Nine full laps on the upper deck make a mile, and one man gave the
                            opinion that the children travelled one hundred miles that first
                            afternoon. This was probably an exaggeration.
                        The older people lay at full length in steamer chairs and drowsed like so
                            many hibernating bears. That is, they slept when they were not eating.
                            The boat was one of a German line, and on a German boat the
                            passenger's first duty is to gorge. In the smoking-room the
                            last night out there was a dispute as to the number of meals, whole or
                            partial, served every day. One man counted up and made it nine. Another,
                            who was trying to slander the company, made the number as low as five. A
                            count was taken and the following schedule was declared to be accurate
                            and official:
                        6 a. m.Coffee and rolls in the dining room.
                        8 to 10 a. m.Breakfast in the dining room.
                        11 a. m.Sandwiches and bouillon on deck.
                        12:35 p. m.Luncheon.
                        4 p. m.Cakes and lemonade on deck.
                        6 p. m.Dinner.
                        9 p. m.Supper (cold) in dining room.
                        10 to 11:30 p. m.Sandwiches (Swiss cheese, 
                            caviar, tongue, beef, cervelat wurst, etc.) in the smoking-room.
                        It will be noted that anyone using ordinary diligence is enabled to stay
                            the pangs of hunger at least eight times a day. But the company in order
                            to cover all emergencies, has made the humane provision that articles of
                            food may be obtained at any hour, either in the smoking room or dining
                            room, or by giving the order to a steward. It is said that geese being
                            fattened for the market or encouraged to develop the liver are tied to
                            the ground so that they cannot take any harmful exercise, and large
                            quantities of rich food are then pushed into them by means of a stick.
                            Anyone who has spent a lazy week on a German steamer can sympathise with
                            the geese.
                        Of course we had wireless messages to give us an occasional throb of
                            excitement. Wireless telegraphy, by the way, is more or less of an
                            irritant to the traveller. The man with stocks purchased and lawsuits
                            pending, and all sorts of deals under way, knows that he can be reached
                            (probably) in some sort of a zig-zag manner by wireless telegraphy, no
                            matter where he may be on the wide ocean, and so, most of the time, he
                            is standing around on one foot waiting for bad news. On shore he
                            doesn't fret so much about possible calamities, but as soon as
                            he  gets away from Sandy Hook he begins to
                            draw mental pictures of the mistakes being made by lunk-headed
                            subordinates, and then he hangs around the Marconi station up on the sun
                            deck, waiting for his most horrible fears to be confirmed.
                        In 1895, during my first voyage to Europe, I wrote the following in one
                            of my letters, intending it as a mild pleasantry:
                        "Some day, perhaps, there will be invented a device by which
                            ocean steamers may tap the Atlantic cable for news bulletins and stock
                            quotations, or else receive them by special transmission through the
                            water, and then the last refuge will be denied the business slave who is
                            attempting to get away from his work."
                        And to think that ten years later the miracle of shooting a message
                            through an open window and across five hundred miles of nothing but
                            atmosphere has become a tame and every-day occurrence!
                        On the steamer I met an old friendMr. Peasley, of Iowa. We first collided
                            in Europe in 1895, when both of us were over for the first time and were
                            groping our way about the Continent and pretending to enjoy ourselves.
                            About the time I first encountered Mr. Peasley he had an experience
                            which, in all probability, is without parallel in human history.  Some people to whom I have told the story
                            frankly disbelieved it, but then they did not know Mr. Peasley. It is
                            all very true, and it happened as follows:
                        Mr. Peasley had been in Rotterdam for two days, and after galloping madly
                            through churches, galleries, and museums for eight hours a day he said
                            that he had seen enough Dutch art to last him a million years, at a very
                            conservative estimate, so he started for Brussels. He asked the
                            proprietor of the hotel at Rotterdam for the name of a good hotel in
                            Brussels and the proprietor told him to go to the Hotel Victoria. He
                            said it was a first-class establishment and was run by his
                            brother-in-law. Every hotel keeper in Europe has a brother-in-law
                            running a hotel in some other town.
                        Mr. Peasley was loaded into a train by watchful attendants, and as there
                            were no Englishmen in the compartment he succeeded in getting a good
                            seat right by the window and did not have to ride backward. Very soon he
                            became immersed in one of the six best sellers. He read on and on,
                            chapter after chapter, not heeding the flight of time, until the train
                            rolled into a cavernous train shed and was attacked by the usual
                            energetic mob of porters and hotel runners. Mr. Peasley looked out and
                            saw that  they had arrived at another large
                            city. On the other side of the platform was a large and beautiful
                            'bus marked "Hotel Victoria." Mr. Peasley
                            shrieked for a porter and began dumping Gladstone bags, steamer rugs,
                            cameras, and other impedimenta out through the window. The man from the
                            Victoria put these on top of the 'bus and in a few minutes Mr.
                            Peasley was riding through the tidy thoroughfares and throwing mental
                            bouquets at the street-cleaning department.
                        When he arrived at the Victoria he was met by the proprietor, who wore
                            the frock coat and whiskers which are the world-wide insignia of
                            hospitality.
                        "Your brother-in-law in Rotterdam told me to come here and put
                            up with you," explained Mr. Peasley. "He said you were
                            running a first-class place, which means, I s'pose, first class
                            for this country. If you fellows over here would put in steam heat and
                            bathrooms and electric lights and then give us something to eat in the
                            bargain your hotels wouldn't be so bad. I admire the stationery
                            in your writing rooms, and the regalia worn by your waiters is certainly
                            all right, but that's about all I can say for
                            you."
                        The proprietor smiled and bowed and said he hoped his brother-in-law in
                            Rotterdam was in good  health and enjoying
                            prosperity, and Mr. Peasley said that he, personally, had left with the
                            brother-in-law enough money to run the hotel for another six months.
                        After Mr. Peasley had been conducted to his room he dug up his Baedeker
                            and very carefully read the introduction to Brussels. Then he studied
                            the map for a little while. He believed in getting a good general idea
                            of the lay of things before he tackled a new town. He marked on the map
                            a few of the show places which seemed worth while, and then he sallied
                            out, waving aside the smirking guide who attempted to fawn upon him as
                            he paused at the main entrance. Mr. Peasley would have nothing to do
                            with guides. He always said that the man who had to be led around by the
                            halter would do better to stay right at home.
                        It was a very busy afternoon for Mr. Peasley. At first he had some
                            difficulty in finding the places that were marked in red spots on the
                            map. This was because he had been holding the map upside down. By
                            turning the map the other way and making due allowance for the
                            inaccuracies to be expected in a book written by ignorant foreigners,
                            the whole ground plan of the city straightened itself out, and he boldly
                            went his way. He visited an old cathedral 
                            and two art galleries, reading long and scholarly comments on the more
                            celebrated masterpieces. Some of the paintings were not properly
                            labelled, but he knew that slipshod methods prevailed in Europethat a
                            civilisation which is on the downhill and about to play out cannot be
                            expected to breed a businesslike accuracy. He wrote marginal corrections
                            in his guide book and doctored up the map a little, several streets
                            having been omitted, and returned to the hotel at dusk feeling very well
                            repaid. From the beginning of his tour he had maintained that when a man
                            goes out and gets information or impressions of his own unaided efforts
                            he gets something that will abide with him and become a part of his
                            intellectual and artistic fibre. That which is ladled into him by a
                            verbose guide soon evaporates or oozes away.
                        At the table d'hte Mr. Peasley had the good
                            fortune to be seated next to an Englishman, to whom he addressed
                            himself. The Englishman was not very communicative, but Mr. Peasley
                            persevered. It was his theory that when one is travelling and meets a
                            fellow Caucasian who is shy or reticent or suspicious the thing to do is
                            to keep on talking to him until he feels quite at ease and the entente cordiale is fully established. So Mr. Peasley
                            told the Englishman all  about Iowa and
                            said that it was "God's country." The
                            Englishman fully agreed with himthat is, if silence gives consent. There
                            was a lull in the conversation and Mr. Peasley, seeking to give it a new
                            turn, said to his neighbour, "I like this town best of any
                            I've seen. Is this your first visit to Brussels?"
                        "I have never been to Brussels," replied the
                            Englishman.
                        "That is, never until this time," suggested Mr.
                            Peasley. "I'm in the same boat. Just landed here
                            to-day. I've heard of it before, on account of the carpet
                            coming from here, and of course everybody knows about Brussels sprouts,
                            but I had no idea it was such a big place. It's bigger than
                            Rock Island and Davenport put together."
                        The Englishman began to move away, at the same time regarding the
                            cheerful Peasley with solemn wonderment. Then he said:
                        "My dear sir, I am quite unable to follow you. Where do you
                            think you are?"
                        "Brusselsit's in Belgiumcapital, same as Des Moines in
                            Iowa."
                        "My good man, you are not in Brussels. You are in
                            Antwerp."
                        "Antwerp!"
                        "Certainly."
                        
                        "Why, I've been all over town to-day, with a guide
                            book, and" He paused and a horrible suspicion settled upon him.
                            Arising from the table he rushed to the outer office and confronted the
                            manager.
                        "What's the name of this town I'm
                            in?" he demanded.
                        "Antwerp," replied the astonished manager.
                        Mr. Peasley leaned against the wall and gasped. "Well,
                            I'll be!" he began, and then language failed him.
                        "You said you had a brother-in-law in Rotterdam," he
                            said, when he recovered his voice.
                        "That is quite true."
                        "And the Victoria Hotelis there one in Brussels and another in
                            Antwerp?"
                        "There is a Victoria Hotel in every city in the whole world. The
                            Victoria Hotel is universalthe same as Scotch whiskey."
                        "And I am now in Antwerp?"
                        "Most assuredly."
                        Mr. Peasley went to his room. He did not dare to return to face the
                            Englishman. Next day he proceeded to Brussels and found that he could
                            work from the same guide book just as successfully as he had in
                            Antwerp.
                        
                        When I met him on the steamer he said that during all of his travels
                            since 1895 he never had duplicated the remarkable experience at Antwerp.
                            As soon as he alights from a train he goes right up to someone and asks
                            the name of the town.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III
                        WITH MR. PEASLEY IN DARKEST LONDON
                        
                            W
                            E did not expect to have Mr. Peasley with us in
                            London. He planned to hurry on to Paris, but he has been waiting here
                            for his trunk to catch up with him. The story of the trunk will come
                            later.
                        As we steamed into Plymouth Harbour on a damp and overcast Sabbath
                            morning, Mr. Peasley stood on the topmost deck and gave encouraging
                            information to a man from central Illinois who was on his first trip
                            abroad. Mr. Peasley had been over for six weeks in 1895, and that gave
                            him license to do the "old traveller" specialty.
                        In beginning a story he would say, "I remember once I was
                            crossing on the Umbria," or possibly,
                            "That reminds me of a funny thing I once saw in
                            Munich." He did not practise to deceive, and yet he gave
                            strangers the impression that he had crossed on the Umbria possibly twelve or fourteen times and had spent years
                            in Munich.
                        The Illinois man looked up to Mr. Peasley as a  modern Marco Polo, and Mr. Peasley proceeded to unbend to
                            him.
                        "A few years ago Americans were very unpopular in
                            England," said Mr. Peasley. "Every one of them was
                            supposed to have either a dynamite bomb or a bunch of mining stock in
                            his pocket. All that is changed nowall changed. As we come up to the
                            dock in Plymouth you will notice just beyond the station a large
                            triumphal arch of evergreen bearing the words, 'Welcome,
                            Americans!' Possibly the band will not be out this morning,
                            because it is Sunday and the weather is threatening, but the Reception
                            Committee will be on hand. If we can take time before starting for
                            London no doubt a committee from the Commercial Club will haul us around
                            in open carriages to visit the public buildings and breweries and other
                            points of interest. And you'll find that your money is
                            counterfeit out here. No use talkin', we're all one
                            peoplejust like brothers. Wait till you get to London. You'll
                            think you're right back among your friends in
                            Decatur."
                        It was too early in the morning for the Reception Committee, but there
                            was a policemanone solitary, water-logged, sad-eyed policemanwaiting
                            grew-somely on the dock as the tender came alongside. He stood by the
                            gangplank and scrutinised us carefully  as
                            we filed ashore. The Illinois man looked about for the triumphal arch,
                            but could not find it. Mr. Peasley explained that they had taken it in
                            on account of the rain.
                        While the passengers were kept herded into a rather gloomy waiting room,
                            the trunks and larger baggage were brought ashore and sorted out
                            according to the alphabetical labels in an adjoining room to await the
                            customs examination. When the doors opened there was a rush somewhat
                            like the opening of an Oklahoma reservation. In ten minutes the trunks
                            had been passed and were being trundled out to the special train. Above
                            the babel of voices and the rattle of wheels arose the sounds of
                            lamentation and modified cuss words. Mr. Peasley could not find his
                            trunk. It was not with the baggage marked "P." It was
                            not in the boneyard, or the discard, or whatever they call the heap of
                            unmarked stuff piled up at one end of the room. It was not anywhere.
                        The other passengers, intent upon their private troubles, pawed over
                            their possessions and handed out shillings right and left and followed
                            the line of trucks out to the "luggage vans," and Mr.
                            Peasley was left alone, still demanding his trunk. The station agent and
                            many porters ran hither and thither, looking into all sorts of
                            impossible places, while the  locomotive
                            bell rang warningly, and the guard begged Mr. Peasley to get aboard if
                            he wished to go to London. Mr. Peasley took off his hat and leaned his
                            head back and howled for his trunk. The train 
                                
                                    And howled for his trunk
                                
                             started and Mr. Peasley, after momentary indecision, made a
                            running leap into our midst. There were six of us in a small padded
                            cell, and five of the six listened for the next fifteen minutes to a
                            most  picturesque and impassioned harangue
                            on the subject of the general inefficiency of German steamships and
                            English railways.
                        "Evidently the trunk was not sent ashore," someone
                            suggested to Mr. Peasley. "If the trunk did not come ashore you
                            could not reasonably expect the station officials to find it and put it
                            aboard the train."
                        "But why didn't it come ashore?" demanded Mr.
                            Peasley. "Everyone on the boat knew that I was going to get off
                            at Plymouth. It was talked about all the way over. Other people got
                            their trunks, didn't they? Have you heard of any German being
                            shy a trunk? Has anybody else lost anything? No; they went over the
                            passenger list and said, 'If we must hold out a trunk on
                            anyone, let's hold it out on Peasleyold good thing
                            Peasley."
                        "Are you sure it was put on board at Hoboken?" he was
                            asked.
                        "Sure thing, I checked it myself, or, rather, I got a fellow
                            that couldn't speak any English to check it for me. Then I saw
                            it lowered into the cellar, or the subway, or whatever they call
                            it."
                        "Did you get a receipt for it?"
                        "You bet I did, and right here she is."
                        He brought out a congested card case and fumbled 
                            
                                
                                    Let's hold it out on Peasley
                                
                            
                             over a lot of papers, and finally unfolded
                            a receipt about the size of a one-sheet poster. On top was a number and
                            beneath it said in red letters at least two inches tall, "This
                            baggage has been checked to Hamburg."
                        We called Mr. Peasley's attention to the reading matter, but he
                            said it was a mistake, because he had been intending all the time to get
                            off at Plymouth.
                        "Nevertheless, your trunk has gone to Hamburg."
                        "Where is Hamburg?"
                        "In Germany. The Teuton who checked your baggage could not by
                            any effort of the imagination conceive the possibility of a person
                            starting for anywhere except Hamburg. In two days your trunk will be
                            lying on a dock in Germany."
                        "Well, there's one consolation," observed Mr.
                            Peasley; "the clothes in that trunk won't fit any
                            German."
                        When he arrived in London he began wiring for his trunk in several
                            languages. After two days came a message couched in Volapuk or some
                            other hybrid combination, which led him to believe that his property had
                            been started for London.
                        Mr. Peasley spent a week in the world's metropolis  with no clothes except a knockabout
                            travelling outfit and what he called his "Tuxedo,"
                            although, over here they say "dinner jacket." In
                            Chicago or Omaha Mr. Peasley could have got along for a week without any
                            embarrassment to himself or others. Even in New York the
                            "Tuxedo" outfit would have carried him through, for it
                            is regarded as a passable apology for evening dress, provided the wearer
                            wishes to advertise himself as a lonesome "stag." But
                            in London there is no compromise. In every hotel lobby or dining-room,
                            every restaurant, theatre or music hall, after the coagulated fog of the
                            daytime settles into the opaque gloom of night, there is but one style
                            of dress for any mortal who does not wish to publicly pose as a
                            barbarian. The man who affects a "Tuxedo" might as
                            well wear a sweater. In fact it would be better for him if he did wear a
                            sweater, for then people would understand that he was making no effort
                            to dress; but when he puts on a bobtail he conveys the impression that
                            he is trying to be correct and doesn't understand the
                            rules.
                        An Englishman begins to blossom about half-past seven P.
                                M. The men seen in the streets during the day seem a pretty
                            dingy lot compared with a well-dressed stream along Fifth Avenue. Many
                            of the tall hats bear a faithful resemblance to fur caps. The  trousers bag and the coat collars are
                            bunched in the rear and all the shoes seem about two sizes too large.
                            Occasionally you see a man on his way to a train and he wears a
                            shapeless bag of a garment made of some loosely woven material that
                            looks like gunny-sack, with a cap that resembles nothing so much as
                                
                                
                                    Dressed down" and "Dressed
                                        up"
                                
                             a welsh rabbit that has "spread." To
                            complete the picture, he carries a horse blanket. He thinks it is a rug,
                            but it isn't. It is a horse blanket.
                        If the Englishman dressed for travel is the most  sloppy of all civilised beings, so the Englishman in his
                            night regalia is the most correct and irreproachable of mortals. He can
                            wear evening clothes without being conscious of the fact that he is
                            "dressed up." The trouble with the ordinary American
                            who owns an open-faced suit is that he wears it only about once a month.
                            For two days before assuming the splendour of full dress he broods over
                            the approaching ordeal. As the fateful night draws near he counts up his
                            studs and investigates the "white vest" situation. In
                            the deep solitude of his room he mournfully climbs into the
                            camphor-laden garments, and when he is ready to venture forth, a tall
                            collar choking him above, the glassy shoes pinching him below, he is
                            just as much at ease as he would be in a full suit of armour, with
                            casque and visor.
                        However, all this is off the subject. Here was Mr. Peasley in London,
                            desirous of "cutting a wide gash," as he very prettily
                            termed it, plenty of good money from Iowa burning in his pocket, and he
                            could not get out and "associate" because of a mere
                            deficiency in clothing.
                        At the first-class theatres his "bowler" hat condemned
                            him and he was sent into the gallery. When he walked into a restaurant
                            the head waiter would give him one quick and searching glance and then
                                 put him off in some corner, behind a
                            palm. Even in the music halls the surrounding
                            "Johnnies" regarded him with wonder as another
                            specimen of the eccentric Yankee.
                        We suggested to Mr. Peasley that he wear a 
                                
                                    His bowler hat condemned him
                                
                             placard reading "I have some clothes, but my trunk is
                            in Hamburg." He said that as soon as his swell duds arrived he
                            was going to put them on and revisit all of the places at which he had
                            been humiliated and  turned down, just to
                            let the flunkeys know that they had been mistaken.
                        Mr. Peasley was greatly rejoiced to learn one day that he could attend a
                            football game without wearing a special uniform. So he went out to see a
                            non-brutal game played according to the Association rules. The gentle
                            pastime known as football in America is a modification and
                            overdevelopment of the Rugby game as played in Great Britain. The
                            Association, or "Socker" game, which is now being
                            introduced in the United States as a counter-irritant for the
                            old-fashioned form of manslaughter, is by far the more popular in
                            England. The Rugby Association is waning in popularity, not because of
                            any outcry against the character of the play or any talk of
                            "brutality," but because the British public has a more
                            abiding fondness for the Association game.
                        In America we think we are football crazy because we have a few big
                            college games during October and November of each year. In Great Britain
                            the football habit is something that abides, the same as the tea
                            habit.
                        We are hysterical for about a month and then we forget the game unless we
                            belong to the minority that is trying to debrutalise it and reduce the
                            death rate.
                        
                        Here it was, February in London, and on the first Saturday after our
                            arrival forty-five Association games and thirty-eight Rugby games were
                            reported in the London papers. At sixteen of the principal Association
                            games the total attendance was over two hundred and fifty thousand and
                            the actual receipts at these same games amounted to about $45,000. There
                            were two games at each of which the attendance was over thirty thousand,
                            with the receipts exceeding $5,000. A very conservative estimate of the
                            total attendance at the games played on this Saturday would be five
                            hundred thousand. In other words, on one Saturday afternoon in February
                            the attendance at football games was equal to the total attendance at
                            all of the big college games during an entire season in the United
                            States. No wonder that the English newspapers are beginning to ask
                            editorially "Is football a curse?" There is no clamour
                            regarding the roughness of the game, but it is said to cost too much
                            money and to take up too much time for the benefits derived.
                        The game to which Mr. Peasley conducted us was played in rather inclement
                            weatherthat is, inclement London weatherwhich means that it was the most
                            terrible day that the imagination can picturea dark, chilly, drippy day,
                            with frequent downpours.  It has been said
                            that one cannot obtain icewater in London. This is a mistake. We
                            obtained it by the hogshead.
                        In spite of the fact that the weather was bad beyond description,
                            seventeen thousand spectators attended the game and saw it through to a
                            watery finish.
                        Mr. Peasley looked on and was much disappointed. He said they used too
                            many players and the number of fatalities was not at all in keeping with
                            the advertised importance of the game. It was a huge crowd, but the
                            prevailing spirit of solemnity worried Mr. Peasley. He spoke to a native
                            standing alongside of him and asked:"What's the matter
                            with you folks over here? Don't you know how to back up a team?
                            Where are all of your flags and ribbons, your tally-hos and tin horns?
                            Is this a football game or a funeral?"
                        "Why should one wear ribbons at a football game?" asked
                            the Englishman.
                        "Might as well put a little ginger into the exercises,"
                            suggested Mr. Peasley. "Do you sing during the
                            game?"
                        "Heavens, no. Sing? Why should one sing during a football game?
                            In what manner is vocal music related to an outdoor pastime of this
                            character?"
                        
                        "You ought to go to a game in Iowa City. We sing till
                            we're black in the faceall about 'Eat 'em up,
                            boys,' 'Kill 'em in their tracks,'
                            and 'Buck through the line.' What's the use
                            of coming to a game if you stand around all afternoon and don't
                            take part? Have you got any yells?"
                        "What are those?"
                        "Can you beat that?" asked Mr. Peasley, turning to us.
                            "A football game without any yells!"
                        The game started. By straining our eyes we could make out through the
                            deep gloom some thirty energetic young men, very lightly clad, splashing
                            about in all directions, and kicking in all sorts of aimless directions.
                            Mr. Peasley said it was a mighty poor excuse for football. No one was
                            knocked out; there was no bucking the line; there didn't even
                            seem to be a doctor in evidence. We could not follow the fine points of
                            the contest. Evidently some good plays were being made, for occasionally
                            a low, growling sounda concerted murmurwould arise from the multitude
                            banked along the side lines.
                        "What is the meaning of that sound they are making?"
                            asked Mr. Peasley, turning to the native standing alongside of him.
                        "They are cheering," was the reply.
                        "They are what?"
                        
                        "Cheering."
                        "Great Scott! Do you call that cheering? At home, when we want
                            to encourage the boys we get up on our hind legs and make a noise that
                            you can hear in the next township. We put cracks in the azure dome.
                            Cheering! Why, a game of croquet in the court house yard is eight times
                            as thrilling as this thing. Look at those fellows juggling the ball with
                            their feet. Why doesn't somebody pick it up and butt through
                            that crowd and start a little rough work?"
                        The native gave Mr. Peasley one hopeless look and moved away.
                        We could not blame our companion for being disappointed over the
                            cheering. An English cheer is not the ear-splitting demoniacal shriek,
                            such as an American patriot lets out when he hears from another batch of
                            precincts.
                        The English cheer is simply a loud grunt, or a sort of guttural
                            "Hey! hey!" or "Hurray!"
                        When an English crowd cheers the sound is similar to that made by a Roman
                            mob in the wings of a theatre.
                        After having once heard the "cheering" one can
                            understand the meaning of a passage in the Parliamentary report, reading
                            about as follows: "The  gentleman
                            hoped the house would not act with haste. (Cheers). He still had
                            confidence in the committee (cheers), but would advise a careful
                            consideration (cheers), etc."
                        It might be supposed from such a report that Parliament was one
                            continuous "rough house," but we looked in one day and
                            it is more like a cross between a Presbyterian synod and
                            bee-keepers' convention.
                        About four o'clock we saw a large section of the football crowd
                            moving over toward a booth at one end of the grounds. Mr. Peasley
                            hurried after them, thinking that possibly someone had started a fight
                            on the side and that his love of excitement might be gratified after
                            all. Presently he returned in a state of deep disgust.
                        "Do you know why all those folks are flockin' over
                            there?" he asked. "Goin' after their tea.
                            Tea! Turnin' their backs on a football game to go and get a cup
                            of tea! Why, that tea thing over there is worse than the liquor habit.
                            Do you know, when the final judgment day comes and Gabriel blows his
                            horn and all of humanity is bunched up, waitin' for the sheep
                            to be cut out from the goats and put into a separate corral, some
                            Englishman will look at his watch and discover that it's five
                            o'clock and then the  whole
                            British nation will turn its back on the proceedings and go off looking
                            for tea."
                        After we had stood in the rain for about an hour someone told Mr. Peasley
                            that one team or the other had won by three goals to nothing, and we
                            followed the moist throng out through the big gates.
                        "Come with me," said Mr. Peasley, "and I will
                            take you to the only dry place in London."
                        So we descended to the "tuppenny tube."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV
                        HOW IT FEELS TO GET INTO LONDON AND THEN BE
                            ENGULFED.
                        
                            O
                            NE good thing about London is that, in spite of its
                            enormous size, you are there when you arrive. Take Chicago, by way of
                            contrast. If you arrive in Chicago along about the middle of the
                            afternoon you may be at the station by night.
                        The stranger heading into Chicago looks out of the window at a country
                            station and sees a policeman standing on the platform. Beyond is a sign
                            indicating that the wagon road winding away toward the sunset is 287th
                            street, or thereabouts.
                        "We are now in Chicago," says someone who has been over
                            the road before.
                        The traveller, surprised to learn that he has arrived at his destination,
                            puts his magazine and travelling cap into the valise, shakes out his
                            overcoat, calls on the porter to come and brush him, and then sits on
                            the end of the seat waiting for the brakeman to announce the terminal
                            station. After a half-hour  of intermittent
                            suburbs and glorious sweeps of virgin prairie he begins to think that
                            there is some mistake, so he opens his valise and takes out the magazine
                            and reads another story.
                        Suddenly he looks out of the window and notices that the train has
                            entered the crowded city. He puts on his overcoat, picks up his valise
                            and stands in the aisle, so as to be ready to step right off as soon as
                            the train stops.
                        The train passes street after street and rattles through grimy yards and
                            past towering elevators, and in ten minutes the traveller tires of
                            standing and goes back to his seat. The porter comes and brushes him
                            again, and he looks out at several viaducts leading over to a skyline of
                            factories and breweries, and begins to see the masts of ships poking up
                            in the most unexpected places. At last, when he has looked at what seems
                            to be one hundred miles of architectural hash floating in smoke and has
                            begun to doubt that there is a terminal station, he hears the welcome
                            call, "Shuh-kawgo!"
                        When you are London bound the train leaves the green country (for the
                            country is green, even in February), dashes into a region of closely
                            built streets, and you look out from the elevated train across an
                            endless expanse of chimney-pots. Two or 
                            three stations, plated with enameled advertising signs, buzz past. The
                            pall of smoky fog becomes heavier and the streets more crowded. Next,
                            the train has come to a grinding stop under a huge vaulted roof. The
                            noise of the wheels give way to the roar of London town.
                        You step down and out and fall into the arms of a porter who wishes to
                            carry your "bags." You are in the midst of parallel
                            tracks and shifting trains. Beyond the platform is a scramble of cabs.
                            The sounds of the busy station are joined into a deafening monotone. You
                            shout into the ear of your travelling companion to get a
                            "four-wheeler" while you watch the trunks.
                        He struggles away to hail a four-wheeler. You push your way with the
                            others down toward the front of the train to where the baggage is being
                            thrown out on the platform. You seize a porter and engage him to attend
                            to the handling of the trunks. As you point them out he loads them onto
                            a truck. Your companion arrives in a wild-eyed search for you.
                        "I've got a four-wheeler," he gasps.
                            "All the baggage here?"
                        "Yes, yes, yes."
                        Everybody is excited and hopping about, put 
                            into a state of hysteria by the horrible hubbub and confusion.
                        "It's number 48."
                        The porter handling the truck leads the way to the cab platform and howls
                            "Forty-ite! Forty-ite!"
                        "'Ere you are," shouts forty-eight, who is
                            wedged in behind two hansoms.
                        By some miracle of driving he gets over or under or past the hansoms and
                            comes to the platform. The steamer trunks are thrown on top and the
                            porter, accepting the shilling with a " 'k you,
                            sir," slams the door behind you.
                        Then you can hear your driver overhead managing his way out of the
                            blockade.
                        "Pull a bit forward, cahn't you?" he shouts.
                            Then to someone else, " 'Urry up, 'urry up,
                            cahn't you?"
                        You are in a tangle of wheels and lamps, but you get out of it in some
                            way, and then the rubber tires roll easily along the spattering pavement
                            of a street which seems heavenly quietude.
                        This is the time to lean back and try to realise that you are in London.
                            The town may be common and time-worn to those people going in and out of
                            the shops, but to you it is a storehouse of novelties, a library of
                            things to be learned, a museum of the landmarks of history.
                        
                        We could read the names on the windows, and they were good homely
                            Anglo-Saxon names. We didn't have to get out of the
                            four-wheeler and go into the shops to convince ourselves that Messrs.
                            Brown, Jones, Simpson, Perkins, Jackson, Smith, Thompson, Williams, and
                            the others were serious men of deferential habits, who spoke in hollow
                            whispers of the king, drank tea at intervals and loved a pipe of tobacco
                            in the garden of a Sunday morning.
                        Some people come to London to see the Abbey and the Tower, but I fear
                            that our trusty little band came to see the shop windows and the crowds
                            in the streets.
                        May the weak and imitative traveller resist the temptation to say that
                            Fleet street is full of publishing houses, that the British museum
                            deserves many visits, that the Cheshire Cheese is one of the ancient
                            taverns, that the new monument in front of the Courts of Law marks the
                            site of old Temple Bar, that the chapel of King Henry VII. is a superb
                            example of its own style of decoration, and that one is well repaid for
                            a trip to Hampton Court. Why seek to corroborate the testimony of so
                            many letter-writers?
                        Besides, London does not consist of towers, abbeys, and museums. These
                            are the remote and infrequent  things.
                            After you have left London and try to call back the huge and restless
                            picture to your mind, the show places stand dimly in the background. The
                            London which impressed you and made you feel your own littleness and
                            weakness was an endless swarm of people going and coming, eddying off
                            into dark courts, streaming toward you along sudden tributaries,
                            whirling in pools at the open places, such as Piccadilly Circus and
                            Trafalgar Square. Thousands of hansom cabs dashed in and out of the
                            street traffic, and the rattling omnibuses moved along every street in a
                            broken row, and no matter how long you remained in London you never saw
                            the end of that row.
                        You go out in London in the morning, and if you have no set programme to
                            hamper you, you make your way to one of those great chutes along which
                            the herds of humanity are forever driven.
                        If you follow the guide-book it will lead you to a chair in which a king
                            sat 300 years ago. If you can get up an emotion by straining hard enough
                            and find a real pleasure in looking at the moth-eaten chair, then you
                            should follow the guide-book. If not, escape from the place and go to
                            the street. The men and women you find there will interest you. They are
                            on deck. The chair is a dead splinter of history.  All the people in the street are the embodiment of that
                            history. For purposes of actual observation I would rather encounter a
                            live cabman than the intangible, atmospheric suggestion of Queen
                            Elizabeth.
                        After you have been in London once you understand why your friends who
                            have visited it before were never able to tell you about it so that you
                            could understand. It is too big to be put under one focus. The traveller
                            takes home only a few idiotic details of his stay. He says that he had
                            to pay for his programme at the theatre, and that he couldn't
                            get ice at some of the restaurants.
                        "But tell us about London," says the insistent friend
                            who has constructed a London of his own out of a thousand impressions
                            gathered from books and magazines. Then the traveller says that London
                            is large, he doesn't remember how many millions, and very busy,
                            and there wasn't as much fog as he had expected, and as for the
                            people they were not so much different from Americans, although you
                            never had any difficulty in identifying an American in London. The
                            traveller's friends listen in disappointment and agree that he
                            got very little out of his trip, and that when they go
                            to London they will come back and tell people the
                            straight of it.
                        
                        As a matter of fact, London is principally a sense of dizziness. This
                            dizziness comes of trying to keep an intent gaze on too many human
                            performances. The mind is in a blur. The impressions come with rolling
                            swiftness. There is no room for them. The traveller overflows with them.
                            They spill behind him. You could track an American all around London by
                            the trail of excess information which he drops in his pathway.
                        Of course, I have kept a journal, but that doesn't help much. It
                            simply says that we went out each day and then came back to the hotel
                            for dinner. There was not much chance for personal experiences, because
                            in London you are not a person. You are simply a drop of water in a sea,
                            and any molecular disturbances which may concern you are of small moment
                            compared to the general splash.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V
                        AS TO THE IMPORTANCE OF THE PASSPORT AND THE
                            HANDY LITTLE CABLE CODE
                        
                            A
                            DVICE to those following along behind. Stock up on
                            heavy flannels and do not bother about a passport.
                        Before we became old and hardened travellers we were led to believe that
                            any American who appeared at a frontier without a passport would be
                            hurried to a dungeon or else marched in the snow all the way to
                            Siberia.
                        When I first visited the eastern hemisphere (I do love
                            to recall the fact that I have been over here before), our little
                            company of travellers prepared for European experiences by reading a
                            small handbook of advice. The topics were arranged alphabetically, and
                            the specific information set out under each heading was more valuable
                            and impressive at the beginning of the trip than it was after we had
                            come home and read it in the cold light of experience.  We paid particular heed to the
                            following:
                        "PASSPORTS Every American travelling in Europe should carry a
                            passport. At many frontiers a passport, properly
                            'vised,' must be shown before the traveller will be
                            allowed to enter the country. A passport is always valuable as an
                            identification when money is to be drawn on a letter of credit. Very
                            often it will secure for the bearer admission to palaces, galleries and
                            other show places which are closed to the general public. It is the most
                            ready answer to any police inquiry, and will serve as a letter of
                            introduction to all consular offices."
                        We read the foregoing and sent for passports before we bought our
                            steamship tickets.
                        I have been a notary public; I have graduated from a highschool; I have
                            taken out accident insurance, and once, in a careless moment, I
                            purchased one thousand shares of mining stock. In each instance I
                            received a work of art on parchmentsomething bold and black and Gothic,
                            garnished with gold seals and curly-cues. But for splendour of
                            composition and majesty of design, the passport makes all other
                            important documents seem pale and pointless. There is an American eagle
                            at the top, with his trousers turned up, and beneath is a bold
                            pronouncement to  the world in general that
                            the bearer is an American citizen, entitled to everything that he can
                            afford to buy. No man can read his own passport without being more or
                            less stuck on himself. I never had a chance to use the one given to me
                            years ago, but I still keep it and read it once in a while to bolster up
                            my self-respect.
                        When we first landed at Liverpool each man had his passport in his inside
                            coat pocket within easy reach, so that in case of an insult or an
                            impertinent question he could flash it forth and say: "Stand
                            back! I am an American citizen!" After a week in London we went
                            to the bank to draw some more money. The first man handed in his letter
                            of credit and said: "If necessary, I have a pass"
                        Before he could say any more the cashier reached out a little scoop
                            shovel loaded with sovereigns and said: "Twenty pounds,
                            sir."
                        We never could find a banker who wanted to look at our passports or who
                            could be induced to take so much as a glance at them. I said to one
                            banker: "We have our passports in case you require any
                            identification." He said: "Rully, it isn't
                            necessary, you know. I am quite sure that you are from
                            Chicago."
                        We couldn't determine whether this was sheer  courtesy on his part or whether we were
                            different.
                        After we were on the continent we hoped that some policeman would come to
                            the hotel and investigate us, so that we could smile coolly and say:
                            "Look at that," at the same time handing him the blue
                            envelope. Then to note his dismay and to have him apologise and back
                            out. But the police never learned that we were in town.
                        As for the art galleries and palaces, we had believed the handbook. We
                            fancied that some day or other one of us would approach the entrance to
                            a palace and that a gendarme would step out and say: "Pardon,
                            monsieur, but the palace is closed to all visitors to-day."
                        "To most visitors, you mean."
                        "To all, monsieur."
                        "I think not, do you know who I am?"
                        "No, monsieur."
                        "Then don't say a word about anything being closed
                            until you find out. I am an American. Here is my passport. Fling open
                            the doors!"
                        At which the gendarme would prostrate himself and the American would pass
                            in, while a large body of English, French and German tourists would
                            stand outside and envy him.
                        
                        Alas, it was a day-dream. Every palace that was closed seemed to be
                            really closed, and when we did find the gendarme who was to be
                            humiliated, we discovered that we couldn't speak his language,
                            and, besides, we felt so humble in his presence that we
                            wouldn't have ventured to talk to him under any
                            circumstances.
                        We travelled in England, Ireland, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland,
                            Italy, and France, crossing and recrossing frontiers, and we never
                            encountered a man, woman or child who would consent to look at our
                            passports.
                        On the other hand, the cable code is something that no tourist should be
                            without. Whenever he is feeling blue or downcast he can open the code
                            book and get a few hearty laughs. Suppose he wishes to send a message to
                            his brother in Toledo. The code permits him to concentrate his message
                            into the tabloid form and put a long newsy letter into two or three
                            words. He opens the blue book and finds that he can send any of the
                            following tidings to Toledo:
                        
                            AdjunctioApartments required are engaged and will be
                            ready for occupation on Wednesday.
                        
                            AmaliorBills of lading have not been endorsed.
                        
                            AnimatioTwins, boy and girl, all well.
                        
                            CollariaReceived invitation to dinner and theatre.
                        
                        
                            IllaqueoHave a fly at the station to meet train
                            arriving at eight o'clock.
                        
                            NapinaMachinery out of order. Delay will be great.
                        
                            RemissusCan you obtain good security?
                        And so on, page after page. Theoretically, this vest pocket volume is a
                            valuable helpmate, but when Mr. Peasley wanted to cable Iowa to have his
                            Masonic dues paid and let Bill Levison take the river farm for another
                            year and try to collect the money from Joe Spillers, the code book did
                            not seem to have the proper equivalents.
                        We had with us on the boat an American who carried a very elaborate code
                            book. All the way up from Plymouth to London he was working on a
                            cablegram to his wife. When he turned it over to the operator, this is
                            the joyous message that went singing through the water back to New York: 
                                
                                    
                                        "LIZCAM, New York. Hobgoblin buckwheat explosion
                                            manifold cranberry suspicious.
                                        
                                            "JAMES."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        He showed us a copy and seemed to be very proud of it.
                        "That's what you save by having a code," he
                            explained.
                        
                        "What will Lizcam think when he receives that?"
                        "He? That's my wife's registered cable
                            address. 'Liz' for Lizzie and 'Cam'
                            for Campbell. Her maiden name was Lizzie Campbell."
                        "Well, what does that mean about a buckwheat hobgoblin having a
                            suspicious explosion?"
                        "Oh, those words are selected arbitrarily to represent full
                            sentences in the code. When my wife gets that cable she will look up
                            those words one after the other and elaborate the message so that it
                            will read like this:
                        He showed us the following:
                        "Mrs. Chauncey Cupple, Mount Joy Hotel, New York Dear Wife:
                            Well, here we are at London, after a very pleasant voyage, all things
                            considered. We had only two days of inclement weather and I was not
                            seasick at any time. We saw a great many porpoises, but no whales. The
                            third day out I won the pool on the run. Formed the acquaintance of
                            several pleasant people. (Signed) James."
                        "It's just as good as a letter," said the man
                            from Buffalo.
                        "Yes, and I save fifty-eight words," said Cupple.
                            "I wouldn't travel without a code."
                        "Why don't you tack on another word and let her  know how many knots we made each
                            day?" asked the Buffalo man, but his sarcasm was wasted.
                        A week later I met Mr. Cupple and he said that the cablegram had given
                            his wife nervous prostration.
                        Mr. Cupple is not a careful penman and the cable operator had read the
                            last word of the message as "auspicious" instead of
                            "suspicious." A reference to the code showed that the
                            mistake changed the sense of the message.
                        "SuspiciousFormed the acquaintance of several
                            pleasant people.
                        "AuspiciousAfter a futile effort to work the
                            pumps the captain gave orders to lower the boats. The passengers were in
                            a panic, but the captain coolly restrained them and gave orders that the
                            women and children should be sent away first."
                        The message, as altered in transmission, caused Mrs. Cupple some
                            uneasiness, and, also, it puzzled her. It was gratifying to know that
                            her husband had enjoyed the voyage and escaped seasickness, but she did
                            not like to leave him on the deck of the ship with a lot of women and
                            children stepping up to take the best places in the boat. Yet she could
                            not believe that he had been lost, otherwise, how could he have filed a
                            cablegram at London?
                        
                        She wanted further particulars, but she could not find in the code any
                            word meaning "Are you drowned?"
                        So she sent a forty-word inquiry to London, and when Mr. Cupple counted
                            the cost of it he cabled back:
                        "All right. Ignore code."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI
                        WHAT ONE MAN PICKED UP IN LONDON AND SENT BACK TO
                            HIS BROTHER
                        
                            A
                            MAN is always justly proud of the information which
                            has just come to hand. He enjoys a new piece of knowledge just as a
                            child enjoys a new Christmas toy. It seems impossible for him to keep
                            his hands off of it. He wants to carry it around and show it to his
                            friends, just as a child wants to race through the neighbourhood and
                            display his new toy.
                        Within a week the toy may be thrown aside, having become too familiar and
                            commonplace, and by the same rule of human weakness the man will toss
                            his proud bit of information into the archives of memory and never haul
                            it out again except in response to a special demand.
                        These turgid thoughts are suggested by the behaviour of an American
                            stopping at our hotel. He is here for the first time, and he has found
                            undiluted joy in getting the British names of everything he saw. After
                            forty-eight hours in London he was gifted 
                            with a new vocabulary, and he could not withstand the temptation to let
                            his brother at home know all about it. The letter which he wrote was
                            more British than any Englishman could have made it.
                        In order to add the sting of insult to his vainglorious display of
                            British terms he inserted parenthetical explanations at different places
                            in his letter. It was just as if he had said, "Of course,
                            I'll have to tell you what these things mean, because you never
                            have been out of America, and you could not be expected to have the
                            broad and comprehensive knowledge of a traveller."
                        This is the letter which he read to us last evening:
                        "DEAR BROTHER I send you
                            this letter by the first post (mail) back to America to let you know
                            that I arrived safely. In company with several pleasant chaps with whom
                            I had struck up an acquaintance during our ride across the pond (ocean)
                            I reached the landing stage (dock) at Southampton at 6 o'clock
                            Saturday. It required but a short time for the examination of my box
                            (trunk) and my two bags (valises), and then I booked (bought a ticket)
                            for London. My luggage (baggage) was put into the van (baggage car) and
                            registered (checked) for London. I paid the porter a bob (a shilling,
                            equal to 24 cents in your money), and then showed  my ticket to the guard (conductor), who showed me into a
                            comfortable first-class carriage (one of the small compartments in the
                            passenger coach), where I settled back to read a London paper, for which
                            I had paid tuppence (4 cents in your money). Directly (immediately
                            after) we started I looked out of the window, and was deeply interested
                            in this first view of the shops (small retail establishments) and the
                            frequent public houses (saloons). Also we passed through the railway
                            yards, where I saw many drivers (engineers) and stokers (firemen)
                            sitting in the locomotives, which did not seem to be as large as those
                            to which you are accustomed in America.
                        "Our ride to London was uneventful. When we arrived at London I
                            gave my hand luggage into the keeping of a porter and claimed the box
                            which had been in the van. This was safely loaded on top of a
                            four-wheeled hackney carriage (four-wheeled cab), and I was driven to my
                            hotel, which happened to be in (on) the same street, and not far from
                            the top (the end) of the thoroughfare. Arrived at the hotel, I paid the
                            cabby (the driver) a half-crown (about 60 cents in your money), and went
                            in to engage an apartment. I paid seven shillings (about $1.75) a day,
                            this to include service (lights and attendance), which was put in at
                            about 18 pence a day. The lift (elevator) on which I rode to my
                            apartment was very slow. I found that I had a comfortable room, with  a grate, in which I could have a fire of
                            coals (coal). As I was somewhat seedy (untidy) from travel, I went to
                            the hair-dresser's (the barber), and was shaved. As it was
                            somewhat late I did not go to any theatre, but walked down the Strand
                            and had a bite in a cook-shop (restaurant). The street was crowded.
                            Every few steps you would meet a Tommy Atkins (soldier) with his
                            'doner' (best girl). I stopped and inquired of a bobby
                            (policeman) the distance to St. Paul's (the cathedral), and
                            decided not to visit it until the next morning.
                        "Yesterday I put in a busy day visiting the abbey (Westminster)
                            and riding around on the 'buses (omnibuses) and tram cars
                            (street cars). In the afternoon I went up to Marble Arch (the entrance
                            to Hyde Park), and saw many fashionables; also I looked at the Row
                            (Rotten Row, a drive and equestrian path in Hyde Park). There were a
                            great many women in smart gowns (stylish dresses), and nearly all the
                            men wore frock coats (Prince Alberts), and top hats (silk hats). There
                            are many striking residential mansions (apartment houses) facing the
                            park, and the district is one of the most exclusive up west (in the west
                            end of London). Sunday evening is very dull, and I looked around the
                            smoking-room of the hotel. Nearly every man in the room had a
                            'B and S' (brandy and soda) in front of him, although
                            some of them preferred 'polly' (apollinaris) to the
                            soda. A few  of them drank fizz
                            (champagne); but, so far as I have observed, most of the Englishmen
                            drink spirits (whiskey), although they very seldom take it neat
                            (straight), as you do at home. I went to bed early and had a good sleep.
                            This morning when I awoke I found that my boots (shoes), which I had
                            placed outside the door the night before, had been neatly varnished
                            (polished). The tub (bath) which I had bespoken (ordered) the night
                            before was ready, and I had a jolly good splash."
                        We paused in our admiring study of the letter and remarked to the author
                            that "jolly good splash" was very good for one who had
                            been ashore only two days.
                        "Rahther," he said.
                        "I beg pardon?"
                        "Rahther, I say. But you understand, of course, that
                            I'm giving him a bit of spoof."
                        "A bit of what?"
                        "Spoofspoof. Is it possible that you have been here since
                            Saturday without learning what 'spoof' means? It means
                            to chaff, to joke. In the States the slang equivalent would be
                            'to string' someone."
                        "How did you learn it?"
                        "A cabby told me about it. I started to have some fun with him,
                            and he told me to 'give over on the  spoof.' But go ahead with the letter. I think there are
                            several things there that you'll like."
                        So we resumed.
                        "For breakfast I had a bowl of porridge (oatmeal) and a couple
                            of eggs, with a few crumpets (rolls). Nearly all day I have been looking
                            in the shop windows marvelling at the cheap prices. Over here you can
                            get a good lounge suit (sack suit) for about three guineas (a guinea is
                            twenty-one shillings); and I saw a beautiful poncho (light ulster) for
                            four sovereigns (a sovereign is a pound, or twenty shillings). A fancy
                            waistcoat (vest) costs only twelve to twenty shillings ($3 to $5), and
                            you can get a very good morning coat (cutaway) and waistcoat for three
                            and ten (three pounds and ten shillings). I am going to order several
                            suits before I take passage (sail) for home. Thus far I have bought
                            nothing except a pot hat (a derby), for which I paid a half-guinea (ten
                            shillings and sixpence). This noon I ate a snack (light luncheon) in the
                            establishment of a licensed victualer (caterer), who is also a spirit
                            merchant (liquor dealer). I saw a great many business men and clarks
                            (clerks) eating their meat pies (a meat pie is a sort of a frigid
                            dumpling with a shred of meat concealed somewhere within, the trick
                            being to find the meat), and drinking bitter (ale) or else stout
                            (porter). Some of  them would eat only a
                            few biscuit (crackers) for their lunch. Others would order as much as a
                            cut of beef, or, as we say over here, a 'lunch from the
                            joint.' This afternoon I have wandered about the busy
                            thoroughfares. All the street vehicles travel rapidly in London, and you
                            are chivied (hurried) at every corner."
                        "You have learned altogether too much," said Mr.
                            Peasley. Where did you pick up that word
                            'chivy'?"
                        "I got that before I had been ashore a half hour.
                            Didn't I hear one of those railroad men down at Southampton
                            tell another one to 'chivy' the crowd out of the
                            custom house and get it on the train? I suppose that
                            'chivy' means to rush or to hurry. Anyway, he
                            won't know the difference, and it sounds about as English as
                            anything I have heard over here."
                        The letter continued:
                        "One of the common sights in London is the coster's
                            (costermonger's) little cart, drawn by a diminutive moke
                            (donkey); but you do not see many of them west of the City (the original
                            London confined within the boundaries of the ancient wall, but now
                            comprising only a small part of the geographical area of the
                            metropolis). I saw so many novel things that I would like to tell about
                            them,  but I will reserve my further
                            experiences for another letter."
                        "I don't want to write again until I have got a new
                            stock of words," the author explained.
                        He read as follows in conclusion: 
                                
                                    
                                        "This evening I am going to the theatre, having
                                            made a reservation (that is, having purchased) two
                                            orchestra stalls (parquet chairs) at the Lyceum. You may
                                            gather from this letter that I am having a ripping (very
                                            good) time, and in no hurry to terminate my stay in town
                                            (in London). I am your awfully devoted brother,
                                        
                                            "ALEXANDER."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                    
                
                
                
                    IN PARIS
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII
                        HOW AN AMERICAN ENJOYS LIFE FOR EIGHT MINUTES AT
                            A TIME
                        
                            T
                            HEY were all waiting for usthere at the corner, where
                            the Avenue de l'Opera hooks on to the string of boulevards.
                            They have been waiting for years without starving to death, so it is
                            possible that once in a while some misguided American really employs one
                            of them. They call themselves guides, but they are trampsshabby genteel
                            tramps, oiled and cheaply perfumed, full of shamefaced gayety, speaking
                            wretched English. They come out of doorways at you, and in grovelling
                            whispers beg of you to come with them and see all the wickedness of
                            Paris. They attempt insulting familiarities, such as taking you by the
                            arm or crowding close alongside and keeping up with you while they
                            continue their blandishing arguments. Mr. Peasley expressed our violent
                            emotions when he said: "When I'm tackled by one of
                            those fellows I get hopping mad, because I know then that I must look
                            easy."
                        We did not need any guide because we were looking  for a caf, and without any particular effort on our part we
                            found more than one thousand. On a crisp evening in February, with snow
                            lying in the neglected corners, we should have hunted for a grate fire;
                            but no, we were in Paris and we wanted to sit in front of a caf. For a
                            week Mr. Peasley had been saying, "Wait until we get to Paris
                            and then we will go and sit in front of a caf."
                        We saw many natives, all bundled up, sitting in the open street and
                            slowly freezing to death, and so we joined one of the frigid little
                            clusters and found some nice iron chairs waiting for us. It was a most
                            heroic performance, but we took our coffee in the open air. A true
                            Parisian can sit under a striped awning for hours at a time with nothing
                            to entertain him except a few cigarettes, made of autumn leaves, and a
                            large goblet filled with sweetened water. The newly arrived American
                            wants to be truly Parisian, so he plants himself at a small table and
                            settles back for an evening of calm enjoyment. In five minutes he has
                            made a careful study of all the people at the neighbouring tables, he
                            has watched the passing crowds until he is dizzy, and he is beginning to
                            squirm and hanker for real excitement. He wants something to happen. It
                            occurs to him that he is wasting time. He wonders if there
                            isn't something doing a block or 
                            two to the east. So he moves on. By nine o'clock we had become
                            sated with the caf life of Paris and were scouting for a music hall.
                        When we were shown to our seats in the temple of art we found ourselves
                            near three Americans, two sedate old men and a motherish woman in whom
                            goodness and piety were plainly advertised. They were the kind of people
                            who would not go to an entertainment in the church parlours at home
                            unless assured by the pastor that the performance would be proper in all
                            details. Here in Paris they sat in the front row of a music hall
                            frequented by the gay characters of the boulevard and watched a
                            pantomime which was calculated to peel the frescoes off the wall. They
                            were not greatly amazed or shocked, but simply regarded the proceedings
                            with sober interest. They were doing their plain duty as
                            sight-seers.
                        Whenever I am in Paris I go to a show-shop in the evening and sit
                            enthralled, listening to the musical singsong dialogue, of which I
                            comprehended not one word. The pantomime gives an occasional flash-light
                            on the story of the play and guess-work does the rest.
                        After making the rounds of the theatres, it is pleasant relaxation to
                            watch the outdoor shows. I remember a travelling amusement enterprise
                            that passed our hotel in the early morning of a fte day.
                        
                        A big, square-shouldered fellow, with an overcoat almost concealing his
                            suit of tights, was pulling a hand-cart containing a roll of carpet,
                            some coils of rope, two chairs, several dumbells, and those worn
                            blue-painted odds and ends that seem to litter the "show
                            business" wherever it is encountered.
                        A smaller man, who did not wear tights, but whose attire, by its faded
                            jauntiness, suggested his connection with the profession, walked behind
                            the cart and pushed, although it seemed at times that he leaned more
                            than he pushed.
                        Last of all came a stocky and erect young fellow, with a muscular frame
                            dignifying an over-worn suit of clothes. He carried a valise and one did
                            not need to see it open to know that it contained the powder,
                            grease-paint, comb and brush, pocket mirror and bar of soap that
                            accompany the entertainer on his travels and abide with him so long as
                            hope remains.
                        Later in the day the aggregation was seen again, and this time at its
                            best.
                        A crowd had formed a fringe around an open space in one of the boulevard
                            "places" and was watching a performance. The big man
                            who had pulled the cart seemed to be the workhorse of the company.
                        His smaller companion, who had held to the cart,  was now transformed into a clown, with baggy costume and
                            painted face.
                        With much grunting and some grinding of the teeth the big man lifted
                            dumb-bells into the air and held them there. His face was moist with
                            perspiration and around the belt line of his tights there were damp
                            spots.
                        When he had shown his prowess with dead weights he gathered up the stocky
                            man, who was also in tights, and held him at arm's length above
                            his head while his broad abdomen heaved like bellows.
                        The crowd was moved to applause, whereupon the clown, taking quick
                            advantage of the demonstration, began passing the hat. The
                            clown's duties were very simple. He made confidential remarks
                            to the spectators, evoked some laughter by his comments on the various
                            feats, and watched his opportunty to reach for the coppers. The big man
                            worked incessantly, but the clown seemed to be the more popular with the
                            lounging sight-seers. He had taken the safe attitude of a critic, and he
                            must have known the secrets of business welfare. He allowed his
                            associates to do the heavy work while he kept cool and gathered in the
                            money.
                        One evening while passing a row of canvas booths on one of the open
                            play-grounds we saw a young  man with his
                            hat off and his hair roughed up, taking deliberate aim with a rifle at a
                            very small target twenty feet distant. The target was placed above a
                            miniature prison about two feet high. Extending from the prison gate was
                            a broad platform, on which was erected a guillotine perhaps eighteen
                            inches high.
                        Evidently there was some hidden connection between the small target and
                            the puny prison. The young Frenchman seemed unable to hit the target.
                            First the bullet would strike just below and then just above or off at
                            one side. He became discouraged once and started away, but this was too
                            much like surrender, so he came back, paid for three more shots and
                            vowed that he would not give up until he had succeeded.
                        On the second shot there was a sudden buzzing, and then the striking of a
                            bell, which announced that he had hit the target. The prison doors flew
                            open and out came three figures abreast, moving with slow and jerky
                            deliberation.
                        The Frenchman who had invoked the spectacle dropped the gun and shouted
                            with joy. At last he was to see it!
                        The three figures continued to move with mechanical gait toward the
                            guillotine, and it could be seen that the bareheaded doll in the middle
                            had its hands  tied behind it and that the
                            printed lines of the face expressed mournful resignation. The two other
                            men were fiercely bearded and appeared to be cruel and determined.
                        As they came to the guillotine the figure in the middle toppled forward
                            without bending a joint and lay with its head in the groove of the
                            block. This was time to turn away, sick at heart; but the Frenchman, who
                            had spent as much as a franc to see this show, giggled with elation.
                        One of the bearded manikins raised his arm as if it were the handle of a
                            pump. The tin blade fell, and the head, which was as large as a hickory
                            nut, rolled into the basket.
                        Liberty, equality and fraternity! The reign of terrorthree shots for ten
                            centimes.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII
                        A CHAPTER OF FRENCH JUSTICE AS DEALT OUT IN THE
                            DREYFUS CASE
                        
                            A
                            GOOD many people do not understand the method of
                            French courts of law. Take the Dreyfus case, for instance. It has been
                            dragging along for years, and the more evidence accumulated by Captain
                            Dreyfus to prove his innocence, the greater seems to be his portion of
                            woe. He has been vindicated over and over again and the vindications
                            simply make him more unpopular with those who prefer to regard him as a
                            mysterious and melodramatic villain.
                        People living at home have never understood why Captain Dreyfus was
                            convicted in the first place. That is because they are not familiar with
                            the workings of a French court and cling to the Anglo-Saxon rule, that
                            every man must be regarded as innocent until he is proven guilty. The
                            French say that trials may be greatly simplified if the presumption of
                            guilt is attached to every defendant in a criminal case.  When the presumption of guilt is combined
                            with a personal unpopularity, the prisoner usually finds it advisable to
                            throw himself on the mercy of the court and accept a life sentence.
                        In order to elucidate the rules of procedure in a French court and show
                            how and why Captain Dreyfus was convicted, let us suppose that French
                            methods could be transferred to the United States and applied to an
                            ordinary criminal casesay the theft of a dog. Here is what would
                            happen.
                        The Court"Prisoner, you are accused of stealing a dog. Are you
                            guilty or not guilty?"
                        Prisoner"Not guilty."
                        Court"Well, someone stole a dog, and if you refuse to
                            acknowledge your guilt, we may be compelled to cast suspicion on
                            gentlemen who would be deeply pained to have themselves
                            interrogated.
                        The Prisoner"How can I acknowledge my guilt when I
                            didn't steal the dog?"
                        Court"That isn't the point. The point is that a great
                            many prominent and influential people have said at different times that
                            you stole the dog. Now, if you come before the tribunal and prove that
                            you didn't steal the dog you are going to humiliate a great
                            many well known and sensitive persons and make the whole situation very
                            distressing to me. It  would simplify
                            matters greatly if you would admit, that you stole the
                            dog."
                        The Prisoner"But how can I admit stealing the dog when I am
                            entirely innocent?"
                        The Court"Did you ever see the dog said to have been
                            stolen?"
                        Prisoner"Yes, sir." (Profound sensation.)
                        Court"And yet you have the audacity to stand there and say you
                            didn't steal it?"
                        Prisoner"A great many other people saw the dog."
                        Court"Perhaps so; but they would make trouble if you or anyone
                            else began insinuating against them, so I don't propose to have
                            their names hauled in here. Of all the men who saw the dog and had a
                            chance to steal it, you are the only one whose conviction would satisfy
                            the general public."
                        Prisoner"I can bring witnesses who saw another man steal the
                            dog. I can prove that he confessed to stealing the dog and that he has
                            fled to escape punishment."
                        Court"You ought not to bring any such testimony into this court,
                            for if you do so you are going to upset some theories held by very dear
                            friends of mine, and if I permit the introduction of such testimony,
                            there is no telling what they will say about me.  If you didn't steal the dog isn't there
                            something else you have done that is punishable in one way or
                            another?"
                        Prisoner"I can't think of anything just
                            now."
                        Court"Oh, pshaw! Aren't you guilty of something? Just
                            think a moment. Nearly every man is guilty of something. If we can find
                            you guilty of any old crime it will help some."
                        Prisoner"I refuse to acknowledge any degree of guilt. I am
                            innocent."
                        Court"I don't see how you can be when so many estimable
                            people think otherwise, but I suppose we shall have to give you a trial.
                            Call the first witness."
                        First Witness"Your Honor, I am a very high-minded and
                            aristocratic person, and I have always disliked this defendant.
                            (Sensation.) As soon as I had heard that someone had accused him of
                            stealing a dog, I knew he must be guilty. I still hold to the opinion
                            that he is guilty. I know that another man has confessed to stealing the
                            dog, and has skipped out in order to avoid arrest, but these details
                            have no weight with me. I am satisfied that if the defendant did not
                            steal the dog mentioned in this affidavit, he must have stolen some
                            other dog that we know nothing about. Ever since this wretched defendant
                            was first accused of this crime I have been going around  saying that he was guilty beyond the
                            shadow of a doubt. Naturally I am not going to come here now and
                            acknowledge his innocence. If he is acquitted, I'll be the
                            subject of ridicule. That is why I urge the court to convict him. No
                            matter what the testimony may show, you take my personal assurance that
                            he is guilty. Remember one thing, that I have a large pull.
                        The Court"Thank you very much for your testimony. Call the
                            second witness."
                        Second Witness"Your Honor, one day last spring I met a man whose
                            friend told him that one day he saw the defendant pass the house from
                            which the dog was stolen. From that moment I became convinced of the
                            defendant's guilt. (Terrific sensation.) Another day a stranger
                            walked into my office and told me that 'D' was the
                            first letter of the name of the man who stole the dog. Although there
                            are 100,000 persons in town whose names begin with 'D'
                            I had no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that the particular
                            'D' who stole the dog was the scoundrel now on trial.
                            The reason that I came to this conclusion was that he used to wear a red
                            necktie, and I dislike any man who wears a red necktie. Also I attach
                            great importance to the fact that the letter 'D,'
                            which is the first letter in his name, is 
                            also the first letter in 'Dog,' thus proving that he
                            stole the dog. (Profound sensation.) In conclusion I would like to
                            request the court to bring in a verdict of guilty.
                        The Court"We will now have some expert testimony."
                        First Expert"Your Honor, I never saw the prisoner before, and I
                            had no personal acquaintance with the dog, but I am convinced that he
                            stole the dog, and I will tell you why. You know, of course, that
                            another man has confessed to stealing the dog. My theory, evolved after
                            much thought, is that the man who confessed did not steal the dog at
                            all, but that the dog was stolen by the defendant, who disguised himself
                            so as to resemble the man who has confessed. (Great sensation.) There
                            seems to be a universal admission that the man who stole the dog was a
                            brunette. Some people claim that this fact points to the innocence of
                            the defendant, who is a blonde; but my theory is that the defendant dyed
                            his hair and whiskers so as to cause them to resemble the hair and
                            whiskers of a certain innocent man, then he borrowed a suit of the
                            innocent man's clothes and went and stole the dog, and the
                            resemblance was so perfect that even the innocent man and the dog were
                            both deceived. The innocent man thought that he,  and not the defendant, had stolen the dog, so he confessed
                            and then ran away. But I am here to save him in spite of his confession.
                            I maintain that if this defendant were to dye his hair and whiskers and
                            put on a suit of clothes belonging to the man who has confessed to
                            stealing the dog, then to anyone a short distance away he would bear a
                            striking resemblance to the man who has confessed. Therefore the dog was
                            not stolen by the man who has confessed, but by this infamous defendant
                            cleverly disguised to resemble the man who has confessed."
                        The Court"Then you think he is guilty?"
                        Expert Witness"If there is anything in my theory, it is simply
                            impossible for him to be innocent."
                        The Court"Much obliged. Call the next witness."
                        Next Witness"I would like to state to the court that the
                            defendant is not very well liked down in our neighbourhood, where he
                            formerly resided, and if the court will only convict him it will be a
                            distinct personal favour to several of us."
                        The Court"Do you think him guilty?"
                        Next Witness"I haven't the slightest doubt of it.
                            Neither has my wife. I have been convinced of his guilt ever since I
                            heard him say one morning, 'I have something to do this
                            afternoon.' It is evident to my 
                            mind that when he said, 'I have something to do this
                            afternoon,' he meant, 'I am going to steal a dog this
                            afternoon.' (Sensation.)
                        The Court"Then you are quite sure that he did steal the
                            dog?"
                        Next Witness"Of course."
                        The Court"Are there any other witnesses?"
                        Prisoner"I have several witnesses here who saw the other man
                            steal the dog. I can prove that at the time of the stealing I was ten
                            miles away, attending a picnic. I can prove, also, that I
                            didn't need a dog; that I never liked dogs; that I had no
                            earthly motive for stealing a dog; and that from the time of my first
                            accusation I have consistently and emphatically denied any knowledge of
                            the crime."
                        The Court"Well, I don't see that the dog has anything
                            to do with the case. I'll sentence you to six months in the
                            bridewell for being so blamed unpopular."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX
                        THE STORY OF WHAT HAPPENED TO AN AMERICAN
                            CONSUL
                        
                            IN
                             undertaking a trip to foreign parts I have had two objects in
                            view:
                        
                            (a) To strengthen and more closely cement our friendly relations
                                with foreign PowersI to furnish the cement.
                            (b) To reform things in general over here.
                        
                        I found that there was no opening for a real reformer in the U. S. A.,
                            inasmuch as the magazines were upsetting municipal rings, cornering the
                            Beef Trust, and camping on the trail of every corporation that seemed to
                            be making money. I said:"If I wish to make a ten strike as a
                            reformer I must seek new fields."
                        So I decided to flit to Europe and spend all the time I could spare from
                            dodging table d'hte dinners to bolstering up
                            and regulating the consular service.
                        In writing today about the happy experiences of  an American consul I am following the advice of a friend
                            who urged me to send some letters back home.
                        "Don't put in too much about your travels," he
                            said. "People have read about European travel until they know
                            Munich better than they do Montana. Whenever the opportunity presents
                            itself write something entirely irrelevantsomething that has nothing to
                            do with anything in particular. The less you say about foreign countries
                            the better you will please your readers, and if you can arrange to write
                            a series of letters in which no reference is made to either Europe or
                            Africa who knows but what you will score a hit?"
                        With no desire to boast of my accomplishments, I feel that up to date I
                            have followed instructions rather closely. If any dates, statistics, or
                            useful information have crept into these communications it is through
                            oversight and not by intention.
                        In writing from Paris the natural impulse is to describe
                            Napoleon's tomb and tell how the Champs Elyses runs right out
                            to the Are de Triomphe and then cuts through the Bois de Boulogne.
                            Fearing that this subject matter had been touched upon by other
                            visitors, I shall disregard Paris and go straight to my task of
                            reforming the consular service.
                        
                        To begin with, usually the American Consul is all right in his place, but
                            his place is at home. Overpaid, possibly, but he does his best to earn
                            his $800 per annum. If he kept all, the money that he handled in the
                            course of the year, he couldn't be a really successful grafter.
                            He finds himself plumped down in a strange country. About the time that
                            he begins to learn the language and has saved up enough money to buy
                            evening clothes he is recalled and goes back home with a "dress
                            suit" on his hands. Take the case of Mr. Eben Willoughby, of
                            Michigan. It is a simple narrative, but it will give you a line on the
                            shortcomings of our consular service, and it will carry its own
                            moral.
                        "Old Man" Willoughby, as he was known at home, owned
                            and edited a successful daily paper on the outskirts of the Michigan
                            pine belt. He was a wheel horse in the party and for forty years had
                            supported the caucus nominees. The aspiring politician who wished to go
                            to Congress had to go and see Willoughby with his hat in his hand. He
                            helped to make and unmake United States Senators and was consulted
                            regarding appointments. But he never had asked anything for himself. His
                            two boys went to college at Ann Arbor, and when the younger came home
                            with his degree and began to take a hand in  running the paper Mr. Willoughby found himself, for the first time in
                            his life, relieved of wearing responsibilities. He was well fixed
                            financially and still 
                                
                                    Had to go and see Willoughby
                                
                             in the prime of lifenot due to retire permanently, but ready
                            to take it easy. For years he had nursed a vague desire to travel beyond
                            the limits of his native land. Mrs. Willoughby, who in the home circle
                            was known as "Ma," was a devotee of the Chautauqua  Circle, and she, too, had an ambition
                            born of much reading to pack up and go somewhere. The family doctor said
                            that a visit to some milder climate, far from the rigours of northern
                            winter, would be a positive benefit to her.
                        So Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby began to study the atlas. One of the sons
                            suggested to "Old Man" Willoughby that he could take a
                            trip to an attractive southern country at the minimum expense by
                            securing an appointment as consul. And, of course, apart from the
                            financial advantage, there would be the glory of representing a great
                            nation and hoisting the flag over a benighted foreign population. The
                            suggestion appealed very strongly to Mr. Willoughby. He wrote to the
                            Congressman and the Senator, and wanted to know if there was a
                            vacancysalary no object, but he would like to go into a mild and equable
                            climate where he could pick cocoanuts.
                        His friends at Washington simply overturned the State Department in their
                            eagerness to give him what he wanted. They discovered that there was
                            somewhere on the map a city called Gallivancia. It was down by the
                            southern seasthe abode of perpetual summer and already enjoying a
                            preliminary boom as a resort. The acting consul had been a British
                            subject. The pay was so small that no enterprising  American had wanted the job. "United States
                            Consul at Gallivancia" reverberated pleasantly in the
                            imagination of Mr. Willoughby. He told his friends at Washington to go
                            after the place, and in less than no time his daily paper announced that
                            he had "accepted" the appointment.
                        The politicians represented to the State Department that Mr. Willoughby
                            was a sturdy patriot of unimpeachable character and great abilityall of
                            which was true. They might have added that he would be just as much at
                            home in Gallivancia as a polar bear would be on India's coral
                            strand.
                        The news of his appointment gave one section of Michigan the trembles for
                            several days, and the Willoughby family was bathed in a new importance.
                            Mrs. Willoughby was given a formal farewell by the ladies of the
                            congregation assembled in the church parlours. Mr. Willoughby was
                            presented with a jewelled badge by the members of his lodge, and the
                            band serenaded him the night before he went away.
                        He and "ma" stood on the back platform and gazed with
                            misty eyes at the flutter of handkerchiefs on the station platform until
                            the train swung around a curve and they found themselves headed straight
                            for Gallivancia and glory. Both of them felt a little  heart-achey and dubious, but it was too
                            late to back out. At New York they boarded a ship and after several days
                            of unalloyed misery they landed at Gallivancia.
                        Now, Gallivancia is the make-believe capital of a runt of an island
                            having no commercial or other importance. No matter where an island may
                            be dropped down, some nation must grab it and hold it for fear that some
                            other nation will take charge of it and pay the expenses. That is why
                            Gallivancia had a governor general and a colonel in command, and the
                            Right Honourable Skipper of the gunboat and a judge and a cluster of
                            foreign consuls. The men had a club at which whiskey and water could be
                            obtained, unless the bottle happened to be empty. The women exchanged
                            calls and gave formal dinners and drove about in rickety little
                            victorias with terrified natives in livery perched upon the box. The
                            lines of social precedence were closely drawn. At a dinner party the
                            wife of the governor preceded the wife of the military commander who, in
                            turn, queened it over the wife of the gunboat, who looked down upon the
                            wife of the magistrate, and so on. The women smoked cigarettes and
                            gambled at bridge, while every man who had won a medal at a shooting
                            match pinned it on his coat when he went to a ball. It was a third-rate
                                 copy of court life, but these small
                            dignitaries went through the motions and got a lot of fun out of it in
                            one way and another. If we cannot afford a social position that is real
                            ivory, the next best thing is to get one that is celluloid. It had all
                            the intricate vices of a true nobility without the bona fide titles to
                            back them up and give the glamour.
                        Into this nest of pretentious, ceremonious, strutting little mortals came
                            "Old Man" Willoughby and "Ma"
                            Willoughby of Michigan. Of the outward form and artificialities of a
                            Europeanised aristocratic society they were most profoundly ignorant.
                            Mr. Willoughby did not even own a "dress suit." When
                            he got a clean shave and put on a string tie and backed into a
                            "Prince Albert" coat he felt that he had made a very
                            large concession to the mere fripperies of life. And
                            "Ma" had her own ideas about low-necked gowns.
                        Can you see Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby in Gallivancia? Can you understand
                            what must have been the attitude of these gold-braid pewees toward an
                            old-fashioned apple pie couple from the tall timber?
                        Mind you, I am not poking fun at the Willoughbys. In the opinion of every
                            real American a man of the Willoughby type is worth a ten-acre lot full
                            of these two-by-four titles. The Willoughbys were 
                            
                                
                                    "D'yuh me!"
                                
                            
                             good peoplethe kind of people one likes
                            to meet in Michigan. But when the ladies of the foreign colony came to
                            call on "Ma" and said "Dyuh me!" and
                            looked at her through their lorgnettes, she was like a staid old
                            Plymouth Rock hen who suddenly finds herself among the birds of
                            paradise. She told Mr. Willoughby that it was the queerest lot of
                            "women folks" she had ever seen, and although she
                            didn't like to talk about people until she knew her ground,
                            some of them did not seem any more respectable than the law allowed.
                            Poor Mrs. Willoughby! She did not know it was good form for a woman to
                            smoke and drink, but bad form for her to be interested in her husband.
                            She tried to apply a Michigan training to Gallivancia conditions, and
                            the two didn't seem to jibe.
                        If Mrs. Willoughhby amused the women, Mr. Willoughby more than amused the
                            men. He upset them and left them gasping.
                        The Acting Consul had used a small office adjoining his own place of
                            business on the water front. Mr. Willoughby called on the former consul
                            and found him to be a dignified Britisher of the gloomy and reticent
                            sort, with a moustache shaped like a horseshoe. The dethroned official
                            was courteous, but not cordial. He was saying good-by to some easy  money, and the situation was not one
                            calculated to promote good cheer. Mr. Willoughby's action in
                            coming down and pulling the Consulate from underneath him seemed to him
                            almost unfriendly. However, he formally turned over to Mr. Willoughby a
                            table, four chairs, several account books, and a letter press, all being
                            the property of the United States of America.
                        Mr. Willoughby had rented a house on the hill overlooking the town and
                            decided to plant the Consulate in the front room of his residence.
                            Inasmuch as the Consul had a business caller about once a month, there
                            was no need of maintaining two establishments. Already he had taken into
                            his employ and his warmest personal friendship a native named
                            Franciotto. This name seemed formal and hard to remember, so Mr.
                            Willoughby rechristened him "Jim." He liked this
                            native in spite of his colour because he was the only man in Gallivancia
                            who seemed to be pervaded by the simple spirit of democracy. Mr.
                            Willoughby said that the others put on too many
                            "dam-lugs"whatever that may mean.
                        If U. S. Consul Willoughby's social standing in Gallivancia was
                            at all subject to doubt that doubt vanished on the day when he and
                            "Jim" came down to move the office effects to the
                            house on the hill.
                        
                        Mr. Willoughby did something that day which convulsed Gallivancia as it
                            never had been convulsed beforenot even when a neighbouring volcano blew
                            off. For days afterward the official set, the men at the little club,
                            and the women pouring tea at each other, talked of nothing else. Many
                            would not believe when they first heard it, but there were
                            witnessesreliable witnesseswho saw the whole thing and were called upon
                            time and time again to testify regarding the most extraordinary
                            performance of the United States Consul. Other Consuls may come and go
                            and the years spin their weary lengths and the obliterating drift of
                            time may hide some of the lesser events in the history of Gallivancia,
                            but until time shall be no more the residents of that city will tell the
                            story of "Old Man" Willoughby, of Michigan.
                        What do you suppose he did? No effort of the imagination can carry you
                            within hailing distance of the horrible truth, so let the suspense be
                            ended. Mr. Willoughby, with his own hands, helped to move the furniture
                            from the old Consulate up to his new residence. He put the table on top
                            of his head and balanced it carefully and carried it through the open
                            streets of Gallivancia! An official, a representative of a great Power,
                            performing cheap manual labour!
                        Words are altogether inadequate to describe the  degree of obloquy which Mr. Willoughby earned for himself
                            by this unheard-of exhibition. In Gallivancia it was not considered
                            quite the thing to indulge in mental effort, and for anyone except a
                            menial of the lowest social order to perform physical labour 
                                
                                    What do you suppose he did?
                                
                             was almost inconceivable. The new consul was set down as
                            either a harmless imbecile or an altogether new specimen of barbarian.
                            In either case he was not a fit associate for well-bred gentlemen, and
                            Gallivancia  proceeded to ignore him and
                            "Ma." That is, they pretended to ignore them, but as a
                            matter of fact, they watched them at a distance and heard daily reports
                            of their familiarities with servants, their fondness for outlandish
                            American cookery, and other eccentricities. It was all vastly diverting
                            to the tiny aristocrats of Gallivancia, but it was pretty hard on Mr.
                            and Mrs. Willoughbyhomesick, hungry for spring chicken and garden truck,
                            and yet ashamed to pick up and go home so soon after all those elaborate
                            good-bys.
                        One morning Mr. Willoughby walked out on the veranda of his hillside
                            cottage and looked across the harbour and saw something that smote him
                            with an overpowering joy. A white cruiser, flying the Stars and Stripes,
                            had steamed through the narrow entrance and was bearing down to an
                            anchorage.
                        "Come here, mother!" he shouted. "Come here,
                            if you want to see something that's good for sore
                            eyes!"
                        Mrs. Willoughby came running, and nearly careened with happiness. There
                            it was, an American war vessel, with real Yankees on boardboys from
                            home; boys who had been brought up to believe that a man's
                            character and his abilities give him a worth which cannot be altered by
                            putting a mere handle  to his name. Mr.
                            and Mrs. Willoughby were eager to go down and call on the
                            "folks from home." After the prolonged boycott which
                            had been hanging over them they were pining for white society.
                        Mr. Willoughby put on his long black coat and Mrs. Willoughby got out her
                            flowered bonnet and together they went down to the water frontwalked
                            instead of going as they should have gone, in one of the decrepit local
                            hacks. Before they could charter a humble rowboat and go out to the ship
                            the Governor General and the Lord High Commander of the Scow and the
                            Imperial Collector of Customs and all the other residents of real
                            importance had gone out in a launch and taken charge of the naval
                            officers. Dinner parties and a ball at the "Palace"
                            were arranged at once. The servant at the club hurried out and got
                            another bottle of Scotch whiskey, and the town band began to mobilise at
                            a caf. Gallivancia had no use for a humble American of the Willoughby
                            type, but it gave hysterical welcome to the splendid war vessel and the
                            natty men in uniform. Over the first drink the Americans were told the
                            remarkable story of the new Consul and were assured that he was a
                            "queer sort." And the naval officers, being accustomed
                            to hearing United States consuls maligned, took no further interest in
                            their  government's
                            representative; merely shook hands with him when he came aboard, told
                            him to make himself at home, and then flocked away to the high lights
                            and the gayety which had been provided for them by the court circles of
                            Gallivancia.
                        Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby found themselves sidetracked, and they went back
                            home not daring to talk about what had happened. But that was the day
                            which caused them to decide to go back to Michigan. Mr. Willoughby wrote
                            to the State Department and said that the climate did not agree with
                            him. And when they sailed away "Jim" was the only
                            person who came to the dock to bid them good-by.
                        As the "Ex-Consul to Gallivancia" Mr. Willoughby is
                            more than ever an honoured figure in his own town. Doubtless he has more
                            gray matter, more Christian charity, and more horse sense than could be
                            collectively assembled by all the petty officials at Gallivancia. And
                            yet Gallivancia regarded him as a very poor excuse for a Consul. The
                            naval officers saw in him a well-meaning "jay" who was
                            bringing discredit on their native land because of his ignorance of
                            social forms.
                        Therefore let us send out Consuls who can put up a
                            "front." Have each Consul wear the uniform of a drum
                            major. Make sure that he can dance all 
                            night, play bridge, and keep up with the naval crowd when it comes to
                            drinking. Let him be haughty with the serving classes, but jovial with
                            the military. Make sure that he is averse to all forms of labour. Such a
                            Consul will shed glory upon our beloved country, and will never suffer
                            the unhappy fate of "Old Man" Willoughby.
                    
                
                
                
                    IN NAPLES
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X
                        MR. PEASLEY AND HIS VIVID IMPRESSIONS OF FOREIGN
                            PARTS
                        
                            I
                            N NAPLESand Mr. Peasley is still with us.
                        We waited for him in London until he recovered his lost trunk, and he was
                            so grateful that he decided to go along with us.
                        He said that he was foot-loose and without any definite plans and it
                            always made him feel more at home to travel with people who were just as
                            green and as much scared as he was.
                        A week ago we were in Londonsloshing about in the damp and dismal mixture
                            of mud and snow which lined the dark thoroughfares.
                        This morning we are basking in the crystal sunlight of Naplesthe blue
                            bay, with the crescent outline on one side, the white walls of the
                            mounting city on the other, Vesuvius looming in the distance behind a
                            hazy curtain, and tourists crowding the landscape in the immediate
                            foreground.
                        Three big steamers are lying at anchor within the breakwaterone from
                            Genoa, one from Marseilles, 
                            
                                
                                    Mr. Peasley is still with us
                                
                            
                             and one from New Yorkand all heavily
                            laden with Americans, some sixty of whom will be our fellow-passengers
                            to Alexandria. The hotels are overflowing with Yankee pilgrims, and
                            every Neapolitan who has imitation coral and celluloid tortoise shell
                            for sale is wearing an expectant smile.
                        The jack-rabbit horses attached to the ramshackle little victorias lean
                            wearily in their shafts, for these are busy days. The harvest days are
                            at hand. The Americans have come. An English woman who had seen the
                            horde in the streets here remarked to a friend this morning,
                            "It must be awfully lonesome in America just at
                            present."
                        And she meant it, too.
                        It has been a fairly busy week for Mr. Peasley. Mr. Peasley is addicted
                            to the habit of taking notes. Every night at the hotel he takes out a
                            small leather-bound book presented to him by an insurance company in
                            America in appreciation of the fact that he has paid the company all his
                            ready money for the last fifteen years, and in this small volume he jots
                            down brief memoranda.
                        Mr. Peasley has a terse style. Sometimes he uses abbreviations. His
                            English is not of the most scholarly brand. As he is merely writing for
                            himself, it makes no difference.
                        
                        The Peasley notebook, after twenty days in Europe, is full of meaty
                            information, and contains many a flashlight on life in the Old World. By
                            permission we are reproducing it herewith.
                        
                            LONDON
                            "By Warrant.Every man in London who sells anything, from a
                                collar button to a chariot-and-four, does so 'by
                                appointment' or 'by warrant.' Poor man
                                opens shopbusiness bad. He is trying to sell shaving soap. One day
                                royal personage floats in and buys a cake for 6d., whatever that
                                means. Dealer puts out gold sign to the effect that he is supplying
                                the royalty with lather. Public breaks down show-cases getting at
                                his merchandise. All true democrats theoretically ignore this
                                second-hand worship of royalty, but, just the same, take notice that
                                the shops with the rared-up unicorns in front and the testimonials
                                from their Royal Majesties are the ones that catch the humble
                                American tourist.
                            "Opera Hats.Wandered into a hat store and discovered, to my
                                amazement, that the proprietor was the inventor of the opera, or
                                concertina, hat. Surprisedalways supposed that at least a dozen men
                                had worked on it. Establishment had documents to prove that the
                                first folding hat had been manufactured  on the very spot where I stood. Proprietor has not yet been
                                knightedprobably an oversight.
                            "Rubber Pavement.The large covered court of the Savoy Hotel
                                is paved with blocks of soft rubber three feet square. Constant
                                procession of cabs in and out of court, and rubber deadens sound.
                                Good ideashould be used in all the streets of New York. New cab
                                horse comes alongnever has tackled rubber pavementis clattering
                                noisily over the asphaltsuddenly hits the soft rubber and begins to
                                bounce up and down like a tennis ball. Strange look comes into
                                horse's eye and he crouches like a rabbit, looks over his
                                shoulder at the driver, and seems to be asking, 'What am I
                                up against?' Mean trick to play on a green horse. Should be
                                a warning sign displayed.
                            "Famine in Trousers.One type of English chappy, too old for
                                bread and jam and not quite old enough for music halls, wears
                                extraordinary trouserslegs very narrow and reefed above tops of
                                shoes (I mean boots)causes them to look thin and bird-like.
                            "English Drama.Saw new problem play last eveningnew play,
                                but same old bunch of trouble. Each principal character failed to
                                marry the person 
                                
                                    
                                        "What am I up against?"
                                    
                                
                                 of the opposite sex with whom he or
                                she was really in love. Marriages did not interfere with love
                                affairs, but helped to complicate the plot. Discovered why we can
                                never have a great native drama in the Stateswe have no open
                                fireplaces in which to destroy the incriminating papers. Impossible
                                to destroy papers at a steam radiator.
                            "L. C. C.In musical comedies, pantomimes, and at music
                                halls, many sarcastic references to L. C. C., meaning London County
                                Council. Council is ploughing open new streets, tearing down old
                                buildings, putting up new buildings, and spending money like a
                                sailor on a holiday. Their extravagance has given great offence to
                                the low comedians and other heavy rate payers, while the very poor
                                people, who are getting parks, sunshine and shower baths free of
                                charge, bless the L. C. C. The dress coat crowd in the theatres seem
                                to have it in for the L. C. C., but they are very strong for Mr.
                                Chamberlain, notwithstanding his recent defeat. Mr. Chamberlain
                                seems to be a great deal like Mr. Bryanthat is, nearly everyone
                                admires him, but not enough people vote for him. In spite of protest
                                from property holders, L. C. C. is going bravely ahead with gigantic
                                task of modernising and beautifying London. Asked an Englishman why
                                there was so much criticism of L. C. C. He  said if you touch a Britisher in the region of his
                                pocketbook he lets out a holler that can be heard in Labrador.
                                Didn't use those words, but that's what he
                                meant.
                            "Snowstorm.Last night a few snowflakes drifted into
                                Piccadilly Circus; hardly enough to cover the ground this morning,
                                but everyone is talking about the 'snowstorm.'
                                London is away ahead of us on fogs, but their snowstorms are very
                                amateurish.
                            "Coals.Buying my coal by the quartforty cents a quart. If I
                                fed the fire the way I do at home would spend $100 a day. The
                                official who brings fuel to my room in a small tin measure insists
                                upon calling it 'coals,' but I didn't
                                think there was enough of it to justify use of plural.
                            PARIS
                            "Coming Across.The turbine boat from Dover to Calais ran
                                like a scared deer and rolled like an intoxicated duck. Held to rail
                                all the way across, looking fixedly at oscillating horizon and
                                wondering why I had left homebleak, snowy landscape all the way from
                                Calais to Paris. After dinner went to music hall and learned that
                                Paris could be fairly warm, even in the dead of winter.
                            
                            "Keeping Tab on the Cab.The 'taximetre'
                                cab is a great institutionsmall clockwork arrangement alongside of
                                seat, so that passenger may sit and watch the indicator and know how
                                his bill is running up. The indicator is set at seventy-five
                                centimes at the start. In other words, you owe fifteen cents before
                                you get away. Then it clicks up ten centimes at a time, and when you
                                reach your destination there is no chance for an argument regarding
                                the total. What they need now in Paris is a mechanism to prevent the
                                driver from taking you by a roundabout way.
                            "Just for Fun.Strange epidemic of killing in Paris. Two or
                                three murders every night, not for revenge or in furtherance of
                                robbery, but merely to gratify a morbid desire to take life. Among
                                certain reckless classes of toughs, or
                                'Hooligans,' it is said to be quite the fashion
                                for ambitious characters to go out at night and kill a few belated
                                pedestrians merely in a spirit of bravado and to build up a
                                reputation among their associates. Seems unfair to the pedestrians.
                                At one of the theatres where a 'revue' or hodge-podge
                                'take-off' on topics of current interest, was
                                being presented, the new type of playful murderer was represented as
                                waiting at a corner and shooting up, one after another, some
                                twenty-five citizens who chanced to 
                                stray along. This performance was almost as good as the Buffalo Bill
                                show and gave much delight to the audience.
                            "Costly Slumber.From Paris to Marseilles is about as far as
                                from Chicago to Pittsburg. Sleeping car fare is about $10; total
                                fare by night train, about $30. Two cents a pound for all baggage in
                                excess of a measly fifty-six pounds. No wonder people travel by day
                                in the refrigerator cars and try to keep warm by crawling under
                                hundreds of pounds of 'hand luggage.' Anything
                                with a handle to it is 'hand luggage.' Some of the
                                cowhide bags must have used up two or three cows.
                            "Tea Habit. The tea habit has struck Paris. At Grand Hotel
                                and many cafs general round-up about five in the afternoon, everyone
                                gulping tea and eating cakes. Not as demoralising as the absinthe
                                habit, but more insidious.
                            "American Music.After a 'coon' song has
                                earned a pension in the United States it comes over to Paris and is
                                grabbed up as a startling novelty. All the 'revues' studded with songs popular at
                                home about two years agoFrenchmen believe that all Americans devote
                                themselves, day in and day out, to accumulating vast wealth and
                                singing coon songs.
                            "Oysters.Went to famous fish and oyster restaurant  for dinner. The Gallic oyster wears a
                                deep blush of shame and tastes like the day after taking calomel.
                                Thought horseradish might improve, modify or altogether kill the
                                taste, so I tried to order some. Knew that 'horse'
                                was 'cheveau' and 'red' was
                                'rouge,' but could not think of the French for
                                'ish,' so I had to do without. Somewhat
                                discouraged about my French. Almost as bad as former American
                                Consul, who, after eight years in Paris, had to send for an
                                interpreter to find out what 'oui' meant. Have got
                                'merci' down pat, but still pronounce it
                                'mercy.'
                            MARSEILLES
                            "More Snow.The further south we go the colder the weather
                                and the deeper the snow. Getting my furs ready for Cairo. Ten hours
                                on the train from Paris to Marseilles, wrapped in a blanket and
                                counting the warts on a foreign commercial traveller who sat
                                opposite. No two counts agreed. Had looked forward during a long
                                month to this ride through sunny France. Had dreamed of green
                                landscapes that lay smiling in the genial warmth, the stately
                                poplars leading away to purple hills, and the happy labourers
                                looking up from their toil in the fields to smile at us and bid us
                                welcome as we flashed by. Not a bit like it. More on the order of
                                North Dakota.  Everybody says it is
                                the coldest snap that Southern France has known in many years. They
                                saved up all their cold weather so as to hand it to me when I came
                                along.
                            "Bouillabaisse (spelling not guaranteed).There is only one
                                thing to do in Marseilles, and that is to drive out to an excellent
                                restaurant built on a rock overlooking the bay and partake of
                                bouillabaisse. Dish famed in song and story. Mentioned often in
                                'Trilby.' Possibly that is what ailed Svengali.
                                The bouillabaisse and the 'Marseillaise' were both
                                invented in Marseilles. The mayonnaise comes from elsewhere. The
                                bouillabaisse is a combination of soup, ragout, chowder, and New
                                England boiled dinner. There are many ingredients. It is said they
                                put in whatever they have the most ofsea bass, lobsters, crayfish,
                                vegetables, sauceseverything except the license. Liked the taste
                                very muchfirst when I ate it, and then all during the afternoon and
                                evening.
                            "Chateau d'If.Coming out of the harbour we ran very
                                close to the Chateau d'If, a stern fortress prison topping
                                a huge rock rising sharply from the bay. Count of Monte Cristo was
                                imprisoned here. Man on board said that the character of Edmund
                                Dantes was wholly fictitious, manufactured by Dumas. Must be a
                                mistake, as I saw the small rock on 
                                which James O'Neill used to stand at the end of the first
                                act and exclaim, 'The world is mine!' It is
                                exactly as represented on the stage, except for the calcium
                                light.
                            NAPLES
                            "The Ship's Barber.Coming across from Marseilles in
                                the dampfer (Germ. for boat) the weather moderated
                                so that I needed only one overcoat. Got acquainted with barber.
                                Often have some trouble in making up with a captain, but can usually
                                hit it off with the barber. A good barber is a bureau of
                                information, headquarters for scandal, and knows what the run is
                                going to be. The barber on our dampfer no good.
                                Shy on conversation, but great on arithmetic. Charged me two francs
                                for a shave, and when I suggested that he was rather high he said he
                                was compelled to ask one franc and thirty centimes for the extract
                                of vanilla he had put on my hair. Told him I did not want any
                                extract of vanilla, but he said there was no way of getting it back
                                into the bottle. Besides, he had the money, so we compromised by
                                permitting him to keep it. Said he longed to go to America. I told
                                him there would probably be an opening in America for anyone so
                                energetic and muscular, and I promised to give him a letter to
                                Armour & Co., of Chicago.
                            
                            
                                
                                    Promised him a letter to Armour & Co.,
                                        Chicago
                                
                            
                            
                            "Free Fireworks.A full hundred miles out at sea we could
                                make out an irregular oval of fire suspended in the skythe two
                                streams of lava now trickling down Vesuvius. Finest landmark and
                                sailing target a sailor could ask for. When we were forty miles away
                                we wanted the captain to slow up for fear he would run into the
                                mountain and injure it. Next morning in harbour we discovered that
                                we were still ten miles away from it.
                            "The New Naples.In ten years Naples has done a lot of
                                sprucing up. Streets are cleaner, new and pretentious buildings have
                                multiplied, smells have been eliminated. Guides, beggars and cabmen
                                not so pestiferous as of yore, but still bad enough to deserve
                                electrocution, provided some more lingering form of death could not
                                be substituted. Cabmen seemed downeast. Municipality recently
                                forbade any extra charge for cab service on a fiesta, or holiday. In Italy 300 days out of every 365 can
                                be rung in under the head of fiestas. Every
                                American who landed in Naples found himself right in the midst of a
                                    fiesta and had to pay two fares, or as much as
                                thirty cents in gold, to ride around in one of the open hacks.
                                Thirty cents would seem a reasonable charge, but not after you have
                                seen the hack. The smaller the horse in Naples the heavier the
                                harness.  Evidently a desire to have
                                about the same total weight in each case.
                            "Emigrants.Alongside of our ship lay a German steamer about
                                to sail for America. The tender made trips to and from the dock, and
                                every time she came out she was filled to the last inch with Italian
                                emigrants. We saw hundreds of them disappear into the ship, so many
                                it seemed they must have been packed in below by hydraulic pressure,
                                otherwise there wouldn't have been room for them. All
                                headed for the land of the free to build railroads. Englishman
                                wanted to know why there was such heavy emigrant traffic at this
                                particular season. Told him they were hurrying over to vote at the
                                April election in Chicago. He believed it. Come to think of it, I
                                believe it myself."
                        
                        This is Mr. Peasley's notebook up to the present moment, just as
                            we are departing for Alexandria. He admits that he may have overlooked a
                            few minor points of interest, but he more than made up by neglecting to
                            mention Napoleon's tomb or the Moulin Rouge.
                        Since arriving in Naples this morning Mr. Peasley has arranged with the
                            tourist agency to change his ticket, and he will accompany us to
                            Egypt.
                    
                
                
                
                    IN CAIRO
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI
                        CAIRO AS THE ANNUAL STAMPING GROUND FOR AMERICANS
                            AND WHY THEY MAKE THE TRIP
                        
                            "I
                            T'S a small world."
                        This is one of the overworked phrases of the globetrotter. It is used
                            most frequently by those who follow the beaten paths. In other words, we
                            find it difficult to get away from our acquaintanees. Not that we wish
                            to get away from them; on the contrary, when we are stumbling along some
                            unfamiliar thoroughfare six thousand miles from home and bump into a man
                            with whom we have a nodding acquaintance in Chicago, we fall upon his
                            neck and call him brother. It must be very annoying to criminals and
                            celebrities who are trying to hide their identities, but to the ordinary
                            traveller it is always a glad surprise to find a friend coming right out
                            of the ground in a corner of the world supposed to be given over to
                            strangers.
                        There are certain spots on the earth which may be classed as definite
                            headquarters for wanderers. It is said that in the summer season any
                            person of any  nationality who seats
                            himself in front of the Caf de la Paix in Paris may confidently gamble
                            on hailing an acquaintance in less than fifteen minutes. Trafalgar
                            Square, in London, is called by the Britishers the actual kernel of
                            civilisation. The long corridor 
                                
                                    Very annoying to criminals and celebrities
                                
                             of the Waldorf is the temporary abode of folks from almost
                            everywhere. The big "front porch" here at
                            Shepheard's Hotel, in Cairo, will surely have two or three
                            friends waiting for you when you arrive. The  Grand Hotel, in Yokohama, has been for many years a sort
                            of clearing-house for travellerscircumnavigators moving aside to let the
                            other crowd pass. Then there is (was, alas!) the
                            Palace, in San Francisco, and the Auditorium, in Chicagodefinite
                            rallying points for mortals who move about.
                        It is when we meet our long-lost friend in the remote by-way that we are
                            induced to throw up our hands and exclaim, "The world is
                            small."
                        For instance, before the German steamer left Naples for Alexandria a
                            launch load of new passengers came aboard. As we were heading out of the
                            bay and almost under the shadow of Capri I glanced at the man in the
                            adjoining steamer chair and recognised the banker from Tien-tsin. He was
                            just as much surprised as I was.
                        About a year ago we parted at San Francisco after a long and pleasant
                            voyage from Shanghaihe to continue a leisurely trip around the world, I
                            to carry my priceless treasures of Oriental art and shattered letter of
                            credit back to Indiana. When we parted there was the usual stereotyped
                            remark about meeting again, but neither of us believed that there was
                            one chance in a million of our paths crossing, it being a far cry from
                            Tien-Tsin to Terre Haute. I don't know what a "far
                            cry" is, but I have come  across
                            it in some of our most opaque dissertations, and accordingly I welcomed
                            the opportunity to use it.
                        The man from Tien-Tsin had loitered in Europe and was now heading
                            straight for China. I had made up my mind in a hurry to go to Egypt to
                            help 10,000 other students investigate the tombs, and here we were, side
                            by side, in the Mediterranean.
                        A few minutes after colliding with him I had the pleasure of meeting a
                            young woman who said that she was the sister of Henry Billkamp, of
                            Chicago. She asked me if I remembered the circumstances under which I
                            met Henry, and I told her that I couldn't very well forget
                            them.
                        A few years ago in Chicago I resided in a large establishment which had
                            as an auxiliary feature a fine Turkish bath. Many of our best people
                            would come to the bath every afternoon, first steaming themselves in the
                            vapour room, then scrubbing themselves, then a shower, and after that a
                            plungeby which time most of the coal dust could be removed. Henry
                            Billkamp came to the bath one afternoon and brought with him a suit case
                            containing his evening clothes and accessories. Henry was to be married
                            the next day, and that evening he and the bride elect were to be guests
                            at a large dinner party on the south side. Henry  looked at his watch and found that he could loll around
                            the bath for an hour before jumping into his evening clothes. So he put
                            his suit case over in one corner of a dressing-room, and in a few
                            minutes had joined the informal circle which was commonly known as the
                            "Perspiration Club."
                        It may be said in passing that Henry was a very estimable young man of
                            first-class abilities and that he was built on the general outlines of a
                            flagpole. He pierced the atmosphere for a considerable distance, in an
                            up and down direction, but he never blocked the view of any person who
                            chanced to be standing behind him.
                        While Henry Billkamp was in the steam chamber engaged in the superfluous
                            task of further reducing himself, Bob Grimley came into the bath
                            department carrying a suit case. The suit case habit is very strongly
                            intrenched in busy towns. To go all the way out home and then come back
                            would use up two hours.
                        Bob Grimley was a short man, weighing about two hundred and fifty pounds,
                            and shaped like an olive. He wanted his vapour in a hurry, because he
                            had to grab a train and go away out to Oak Park and then dress in a
                            hurry and have a bite of dinner and play poker. So he made a running
                            splash and jump  through the bath
                            department, came out, hopped into his garments, picked up Henry
                            Billkamp's suit case, and rushed away to Oak Park.
                        It was half past six when Henry Billkamp arose from the plunge and
                            hurried to the dressing-room. The dinner was to be at seven. He opened
                            the suit case and began to take out balloon-shaped garments, and then he
                            shrieked for an attendant. Where was his suit case? No one seemed to
                            know. Oh, yes; Mr. Grimley had come out of that room with a suit case
                            and had goneno one knew whither. Henry stood there with a huge article
                            of raiment clutched in each hand and slowly froze with horror as a full
                            understanding of the situation grew upon him. In less than a half-hour
                            he must join thembride, relatives, friends. The lights were already up,
                            the flowers on the table, the wine cooling, the carriages beginning to
                            arrive. It was to be the night of his life. Could he appear at this
                            glittering function as a chief attraction in an eight dollar sack suit
                            and make some lame explanation about losing his other things in a
                            Turkish bath? He had an old suit at home, but he was miles from home.
                            The carriage man sent in word that Mr. Grimley and suit case had gone to
                            a railway station. That settled it. Henry decided to jump into the
                            plunge and end it all.
                        
                        While he was lamenting, a friend came in from another dressing-room to
                            find out what was the matter. Henry, scantily attired, leaned against
                            the wall and in a voice choked with sobs and cuss words outlined his
                            frightful predicament. The friend, listening, suddenly emitted a glad
                            shout.
                        "I have it!" he exclaimed. "There's
                            only one man in all the world with a figure anything like yours, and he
                            happens to be right here in the building. Come! Get into a dressing
                            gown. We have twenty minutes! We can make it. Come!"
                        A few seconds later two agitated persons, one attired and the other semi,
                            burst into my room. It was a long story, but could they borrow an
                            assortment of evening clothes? Could they? I was delighted to know that
                            someone in the world wanted to wear that suit.
                        No fireman going to a fire ever dressed himself with such rapidity as we
                            dressed the hysterical Henry. Everything fitted him perfectly. Shirt,
                            collar, trousers, waistcoat, swallowtail, opera hat, tie, gloves, studs,
                            buttonseverything just his size. Nothing in the outfit had ever fitted
                            me, but when we got through with Henry he was beyond criticism. He
                            actually wept with joy as we ran him out to the carriage and boosted him
                            in and started him southward, with  eleven
                            minutes to spare. He arrived on the dot. For weeks afterward he would
                            sit down every day and write me a letter of thanks and declare that he
                            would never forget me and the service I had done him. Of course, it
                            would have been impossible for me to forget anyone who had looked well
                            in my evening clothes, and it was a positive pleasure to meet
                            Henry's sister. She said she had long desired to have a look at
                            me. She had not believed it possible that there was another living
                            mortal whose clothes would fit Henry, but now she saw that she had been
                            mistaken.
                        It is flattering to learn that people we have never met have been
                            interested in us for a long time. Continuing the same line of thought,
                            it is often disappointing to learn that the people most deeply
                            interested in us are those who have never met us. For fear of getting
                            mixed up, let us return to the boat.
                        Our principal cargo was honeymoon. We had six newly married couples, who
                            were advertising to all the world the fact of their sudden happiness,
                            and three other couples were under suspicion. The men lounged in the
                            smoking-room, as if to give the impression that they were hardened in
                            matrimony, but they peeked out through the portholes too often and made
                            many trips to the deck.
                        
                        One German couple was the most newly married team that any of us had ever
                            seen. I don't think they knew they were in a boat. They may
                            have suspected, but it really didn't make any difference. They
                            were in a trance, riding on a cloud of incense, saturated 
                                
                                    Three other couples under suspicion
                                
                             with bliss. He was middle aged, with red flaring whiskers, and
                            a nose showing an angular break in the middle. She was short and plump,
                            with a shiny, oil-finish countenance. Neither had been constructed
                            according  to the plans and specifications
                            of Love's Young Dream, and yet the devouring adoration which
                            played back and forth between Romeo and Juliet was almost icy compared
                            with this special brand of Teutonic love. They were seldom more than
                            three inches apart, he gazing into her eyes with a yearning that was
                            unutterable (even in German) and she gazing right back at him in
                            blushing rapture and seeming to say to herself:" Just think! He
                            belongs to me, whiskers and all!" It was almost enough to
                            induce one to get married.
                        They were drifting so far above the earth that they forgot to be seasick.
                            The other honeymooners took to their cabins.
                        Is there anything so perverse, so whimsical, so tantalising, and so full
                            of surprises as our old friend the weather? When the warm sunshine
                            trickled down our backs in Naples we rejoiced and said, "At
                            last we have found summer." We looked forward to three balmy
                            days on the blue Mediterranean, and even began to remember where we had
                            packed the summer clothes at the bottom of the trunk. During the first
                            night out we passed between Seylla and Charybdis. They sound like a team
                            of acrobats, but really they are the promontories guarding the narrow
                            Strait of Messina. It was pitch dark when we passed, and we  had turned in, but we read about them in
                            Baedeker next morning and were much gratified to know that 
                                
                                    "Whiskers and all"
                                
                             we had been so near them. Not that we can describe them, but
                            hereafter we can refer to them.
                        After we rounded the south coast of Italy and  pointed for Alexandria, we ran into a mess of weather that
                            had lost its bearings and wandered down from the north Atlantic. The
                            wind blew a gale. We sat huddled in our heaviest wraps. The good ship
                            pitched and pitched, and then pitched some more. And this was the
                            Mediterranean! We had promised ourselves to lie basking in the gentle
                            warmth and count the lateen sails as they went drifting by. We had
                            expected to see the whole surface of the Mediterranean almost as busy as
                            State and Madison, or Broadway and Forty-secondcraft of all descriptions
                            criss-crossing the blue ripples, a continuous aquatic bioscope. As a
                            matter of fact, we rode for three days across waters as lonesome and
                            empty as those of the north Pacific, where the course is so clear that
                            the captain, after putting to sea, can tie the wheel and go below and
                            play dominoes.
                        Our chilly voyage from Naples to Alexandria has suggested a few
                            reflections on travel in general. Why the Anglo-Saxon passion for
                            gadding about? Cairo to-day is absolutely congested with Americans. The
                            continent of Europe is two days away by speedy boat; Paris is two days
                            more, and London less than a week by ordinary modes of travel. America
                            lies three thousand miles beyond the most remote European city and
                            across stormy waters, and yet America 
                            seems to claim a plurality of all the transients. If an Egyptian began
                            to pack up his things to take a four thousand mile jump to look at the
                            stock yards of Chicago or the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky, his friends
                            would have him consigned to some Mohammedan institution for the
                            treatment of those mentally deranged. But the Americans are here in
                            flocks, droves, coveysdecrepit old people; blooming debutantes, boys
                            just out of college, tired-out business men, women who have been
                            studying Egypt at their clubs, and, of course, the 8000 (more or less)
                            newly married couples. And most of them are working like farm hands to
                            generate some real enthusiasm for tombs and hieroglyphics. Hard pulling,
                            but they will make it if their legs hold out.
                        What is the charmthe siren call of Egyptthat has lured these thousands so
                            far away from home and friends? It is not climate, for we have a better
                            climate of our own. If the traveller seeks merely warmth and sunshine,
                            he can find them in Southern California, the West Indies, or at Palm
                            Beach. It is not a genuine and deep-seated interest in ancient records,
                            inasmuch as ninety per cent. of the fresh arrivals from America do not
                            know the difference between a cartouche and a scarab. I know, because I
                            looked it up yesterday. It is not a snobbish desire to  rub up against the patchouli and rice
                            powder of European hothouse aristocracy, because nearly all of the
                            Americans flock by themselves and make disparaging remarks about other
                            nationalities, and vice versa.
                        No doubt the one great reward of the persistent traveller is to find new
                            varieties of his fellow man. Cairo is the pousse caf
                            of humanityprobably the most cosmopolitan city in the world. The guide
                            books talk about rock tombs and mosques, but the travellers find their
                            real enjoyment in the bazaars and along the crowded streets and on the
                            sheer banks of the Nile, which stand out as an animated panorama for
                            hundreds of miles. The first hour in Cairo is compensation for many an
                            hour of tedious travel. Once more in the sunshine, the soft but gamey
                            flavour of Orientalism soothing the nostrils, a lively chatter of
                            unfamiliar languages; an interweaving throng of turbans, gowns, fezes,
                            swarthy faces; the pattering hoof-beats of spangled donkeys and the
                            stealthy sweep of dignified camelsso much to see that one needs four
                            pairs of eyes to catch all parts of the picture and at least a
                            half-dozen fountain pens to keep score of the attractions.
                        The first hour in a new land! It is that which repays the patient
                            traveller. It gives him the gasping 
                            surprises and the twinges of delight which are not to be found in
                            southern California or at Palm Beach. And it is the very first hour
                            which is memorable and crowded with large emotions. Because, after about
                            two hours, the American has adapted himself to his new environment, and
                            is beginning to be blas. Along about the second day, when the guide
                            attempts to dazzle him by showing another variety of bazaar he murmurs
                            "Chestnut" and suggests going back to the hotel.
                        It may afford consolation to the large number of people who remain at
                            home to know that only about five per cent. of foreign travel is really
                            worth while, Mr. Emerson's beautiful law of compensation holds
                            true in regard to travel just as it applies to all other things that are
                            coveted by mortals. You must pay for what you get, not in money alone,
                            but in hardships, annoyances, and long periods of dumb, patient
                            waiting.
                        The better half of one of the honeymoon combinations that came with us
                            from Naples told a plaintive story. She had been travelling for three
                            weeks in weather that had been a crescendo of the
                            disagreeable. All the way across the Atlantic she had been desperately
                            ill in her cabin. In London they found fogs. In Paris it rained. And now
                            they were fighting their  way through a
                            storm in the Mediterranean. Notwithstanding all this, she was trying to
                            be cheerful, for she believed that she would like Egypt.
                        The blessedness of travel is that when the sun comes from behind the
                            cloud and a new city begins to arise from the sea, we forget all the
                            gloomy days on board ship, all the crampy rides in the stuffy railway
                            compartments, all the overcharges and vexations and harassments and get
                            ready to tear ashore and explore a new wonderland.
                        Who can forget the first hour of the first railway ride through rural
                            England? The storybook pictures that you have seen all your life come
                            true at last.
                        Or the first hour in London? That tall thing looming right in front of
                            you is really the Nelson monument and not a papier mach deception put up
                            for the entertainment of tourists.
                        In the first hour of 'rickshaw riding in Japan I saw so much
                            that was funny and fantastic and nerve kinking that at the end of the
                            ride I wanted to pay the coolie for a year instead of an hour.
                        And how about the first hour up the Grand Canal in Venice? Or the first
                            hour in the tangled bedlam of Canton? Or the first hour in front of
                            Shepheard's Hotel, here in Cairo, when it really seems that a
                            wonderful pageant has been ordered for your special  joy? With bulging eyes and reeling senses you view the
                            changing kaleidoscope and ask, in the language of Mr. Peasley,
                            "Is this on the level?"
                        Yes, travel is hard work, and your true traveller is a mighty grumbler,
                            but he goes on buoyed always by the hope of another "first
                            hour."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII
                        ROUND ABOUT CAIRO, WITH AND WITHOUT THE
                            ASSISTANCE OF THE DRAGOMAN OR SIMON LEGREE OF THE ORIENT
                        
                            M
                            R. PEASLEY is a secretive student of the guide
                            book.
                        He reads up beforehand and on the quiet. Then when we come face to face
                            with some "sight" and are wondering about this or
                            that, Mr. Peasley opens the floodgate of his newly-acquired knowledge
                            and deluges the whole party. He is seldom correct, and never accurate,
                            but he knows that he is dealing with an ignorance more profound than his
                            own, and that gives him confidence.
                        For instance, the first afternoon in Cairo we chartered an open
                            conveyance and rode out to the citadel and the mosque of Mohammed Ali,
                            both of which are perched on a high limestone cliff overlooking the
                            city. The mosque is modern and very gorgeous with alabaster columns, a
                            profusion of gay rugs, stained windows, and crystal chandeliers. We were
                            rhapsodising over the interior and were saying it was almost as swell
                            and elegant as the new Claypool Hotel  in
                            Indianapolis, when we happened to overhear one of our countrywomen
                            reading aloud from a very entertaining book on Egypt written thirty
                            years ago by Amelia B. Edwards. Miss Edwards allowed that the mosque of
                            Mohammed Ali was a tawdry and hideous specimen of the most decadent
                            period of the mixed-up architectures imported from Araby and Turkey.
                            When we heard that we made a quick switch and began to find fault with
                            the decorations and told the guide we had enough.
                        On the way out to the parapet to enjoy the really wonderful view of the
                            city and the Nile Valley, with the pyramids lifting themselves dimly
                            from the old gold haze of the desert, Mr. Peasley wished to repay the
                            lady who had read to us, so he paused, and, making a very indefinite and
                            non-committal gesture, said, "Near this very spot Mohammed Ali
                            killed more than one hundred and fifty mamelukes in one
                            day."
                        Our fair countrywoman looked at Mr. Peasley with a puzzled frown on her
                            brow and then timidly asked, "What is a mameluke?"
                        We thought she had him, but not so. He wasn't even feazed. He
                            replied promptly, "A mameluke is something like a mongoose,
                            only larger."
                        That is Mr. Peasley's way. If he doesn't know, at 
                            
                                
                                    "What is a mameluke?"
                                
                            
                             least he will make a stab at it. One
                            evening at dinner we had anchovies as a curtain raiser, and a man
                            sitting next to Mr. Peasley poked at the briny minnows with his fork and
                            asked, "What are these?"
                        "Those are anchorites," replied Mr. Peasley, without
                            the slightest hesitation.
                        As a rule he gets one syllable right, which is pretty good for him. At
                            present he is much interested in the huge dams of masonry and iron gates
                            that have been thrown across the Nile at Assiut and Assouan. Over here
                            they are called "barrages." Mr. Peasley insists upon
                            calling them "garages." We tried to explain to him
                            that a garage was a place where automobiles were cared for, but he said
                            that automobile and "dam" belonged in the same
                            category and often meant practically the same thing, so he continues to
                            speak of the "garage."
                        By the way, when a pious Englishman over here, say a bishop on a
                            vacation, wishes to relieve his feelings without the actual use of
                            profanity he exclaims "Assouan!" If he falls off his
                            donkey, "Assouan!" If his tea is served to him at less
                            than 212 degrees Fahrenheit, "Assouan!"
                        "Assouan" means the superlative of all dams, the
                            biggest dam in the world. It takes the place of a whole row of these: .
                                 Mr. Peasley uses the word, when he
                            can think of it. If his memory fails him, he falls back on the American
                            equivalent.
                        Inasmuch as I reside in Indiana, where it is a social offence to crave a
                            cigarette, a misdemeanor to 
                                
                                    Assouan!
                                
                             keep one in the house, and a high crime to smoke one, Cairo
                            during the first day gave me many a shock. Cairo is unquestionably the
                            cigarette headquarters of the universe. If the modern Egyptians followed
                                 the ancient method of loading the
                            tomb with supplies for the lately departed they would put in each
                            sarcophagus about ten thousand cigarettes and a few gallons of Turkish
                            coffee. The food wouldn't matter.
                        In Cairo, men, women, and children smoke. Only the camels and donkeys
                            abstain.
                        Cigarettes are sold nearly everywherenot only by tobacconists, but also
                            by milliners, undertakers, real estate agents, etc. Those who do not
                            sell them give them away. A cigarette across the counter is the usual
                            preliminary to driving a bargain.
                        It surprised us to learn that although the Egyptians have been addicted
                            to this enfeebling vice ever since they first had a chance to cultivate
                            it, they have managed to survive and flourish as a distinct breed of
                            humanity for some seven thousand years, as nearly as I can figure it off
                            hand. By eliminating the cigarette from Indiana the Hoosiers should beat
                            this record. No doubt they will retain their primitive vigour for a
                            longer period, say nine thousand years. If so, the anti-cigarette law
                            will be vindicated.
                        We certainly had a feeling of guilty pleasure when we sat in front of
                            Shephcard's Hotel and smoked the wicked little things, and knew
                            that the policeman standing a few feet away did not dare to raise his
                            hand against us.
                        
                        A very clever young American owns a shop near the hotel. He is a student
                            of Egyptology and a dealer in genuine antiquities, including mummies.
                            While I was nosing through his collection of scarabs, idols, coins, and
                            other time-worn trinkets, he suggested that I purchase a mummy.
                        "Can I get one?" I asked, in surprise.
                        "I can get you a gross, if you want them," he
                            replied.
                        "What would a man do with a gross of mummies?"
                        "You can give them away. They are very ornamental. Formerly my
                            only customers were colleges and museums. Now I am selling to people who
                            put them in private residences. Nothing sets off an Oriental apartment
                            to better effect, or gives it more colour and atmosphere, as you might
                            say, than a decorated mummy case."
                        I told him I would not object to the "colour," but
                            would draw the line at "atmosphere." He assured me
                            that after a few thousand years the mortuary remains become as dry as a
                            London newspaper and as odourless as a Congressional investigation.
                        I followed him into a large back room and saw two beautifully preserved
                            specimens in their rigid overcoats being packed away for shipment to
                            America,  while others leaned against the
                            wall in careless attitudes.
                        What a grisly reflection! Here was a local potentate, let us say Ipekak
                            II. of Hewgagruler of a province, boss of his party, proud owner of
                            broad fields and grazing herds. When he died, 1400 B. C., and was
                            escorted to his rock tomb by all the local secret societies, the
                            military company, and a band of music, his friends lowered his embalmed
                            remains into a deep pit and then put in a rock filling and cut
                            hieroglyphics all over the place, telling of his wealth and social
                            importance, and begging all future generations to regard the premises as
                            sacred.
                        Some two thousand years later along comes a vandal in a cheap store suit
                            and a cork helmet, engages Ipekak's own descendants to pry open
                            the tomb and heave out the rock at fifteen cents per day, hauls the
                            mummy into the daylight, and ships it by luggage van to Cairo, where it
                            is sold to a St. Paul man for $125!
                        Until I talked to the dealer I had no idea that mummies were so
                            plentiful. In some parts of Egypt people go out and dig them up just as
                            they would dig potatoes. The prices vary greatly, somewhat depending
                            upon the state of preservation of the party of the first part and the
                            character of the decorations  on the case,
                            but more particularly on account of the title or historical importance
                            of the once lamented. For instance, a Rameses or Ptolemy cannot be
                            touched for less than $1000. A prince, a trust magnate, or a military
                            commander brings $150; the Governor of a city or the president of a
                            theological seminary anywhere from $60 to $75. Within the last three
                            years perfect specimens of humourist have been offered for as low as
                            $18, and the dealer showed me one for $7.50probably a tourist.
                        At Naples, proceeding eastward, one enters the land of Talk. The French
                            are conversational and animated, but Southern Italy begins to show the
                            real Oriental luxuriance of gab. A Neapolitan trying to sell three
                            cents' worth of fish will make more noise than a whole
                            Wanamaker establishment. The most commonplace and everyday form of
                            dialogue calls for flashing eyes, swaying body, and frantic
                            gesticulations.
                        In front of a caf in Naples Mr. Peasley became deeply interested in a
                            conversation between two well-dressed men at a table near ours. At first
                            we thought they were going to "clinch" and fight it
                            out, but then we saw that there was no real anger exhibited, but that
                            apparently one was describing to the other some very thrilling
                            experience. He waved his arms,  struck at
                            imaginary objects, made pinwheel movements with his fingers, and carried
                            on generally in a most hysterical manner. Mr. Peasley, all worked up,
                            beckoned the head waiter, who had been talking to us in English.
                        "Look here," he said confidentially, "I want
                            you to listen and tell me what those fellows are talking about. I
                            can't catch a word they say, but as near as I can make out from
                            the way they act that fellow with the goatee is describing some new kind
                            of torpedo boat. It goes through the water at about thirty miles an
                            hour, having three or four screw propellers. When it comes within
                            striking distance of the enemybang! they cut her loose and the
                            projectile goes whizzing to the mark, and when it meets with any
                            resistance there is a big explosion and everything within a quarter of a
                            mile is blown to flindereens. Now, that's the plot, as near as
                            I can follow it from watchin' that short guy make motions. You
                            listen to them and tell me if I am right."
                        The head waiter listened and then translated to us as
                            follows:"He is saying to his friend that he slept very well
                            last evening and got up feeling good, but was somewhat annoyed at
                            breakfast time because the egg was not cooked to suit him."
                        "How about all these gymnastics?" asked the surprised
                                 Mr. Peasley. "Why does he
                            hop up and down, side step and feint and wiggle his fingers and all that
                            monkey business?"
                        "Quite so," replied the head waiter. "He is
                            describing the egg."
                        What a peopleto take five cents worth of cheap information and garland it
                            with twenty dollars' worth of Delsarte and rhetoric!
                        Talk is one of the few things of which there is a superabundance in the
                            Levant. In nearly all particulars the Arab is economical and abstemious.
                            He eats sparingly and cheaply, wears just enough clothing to keep from
                            violating the municipal ordinances, smokes conservatively, so as to get
                            the full value of his tobacco, and lives in a house which is furnished
                            with three or four primitive utensils. But when it comes to language, he
                            is the most reckless spendthrift in the world. He uses up large bales of
                            conversation.
                        Suppose that three porters at a railway station are to take a trunk from
                            a car and put it on a truck and wheel it out to a cab. The talk made
                            necessary by this simple operation would fill several pages in the
                            Congressional Record. All three talk incessantly, each telling the
                            others what to do and finding fault because they don't do it
                            his way. One seems to be 
                            
                                
                                    "He is describing the egg"
                                
                            
                             superintendent, the second is foreman,
                            and the third is boss.
                        Endless disputes of a most vivid character rage among the donkey boys and
                            peddlers who assemble near the hotels and lie in wait for victims.
                            "What do they find to talk about?" is the question
                            that comes to one every time he hears the babel of excited voices. And
                            while we are smiling at their childish tantrums they are splitting their
                            sides over new stories relating to that strange being from the
                            antipodes, the barbarian with the mushroom helmet who exudes money at
                            every pore, who keeps himself bundled in unnecessary clothes and rides
                            out to the desert every day to stand in the baking sun and solemnly
                            contemplate a broken column and a heap of rubbish. Truly it all depends
                            on the point of view.
                        We held back the Pyramids and the Sphinx so as to make our visit to them
                            the cap sheaf of the stay in Cairo. As for sightseeing, most of the time
                            we just rambled up one street and down another, looking in shop windows,
                            watching the workmen kill time with their prehistoric implements,
                            smelling the bazaars, dodging dog carts, donkeys and camels, and having
                            a fine time generally.
                        Aimless excursions are the best, after all. It is more fun to drift
                            around a new town and rub up  against the
                            people than to deliver yourself, body and soul, over to a guide. In
                            Egypt the guide is called a dragoman. He puts on airs and has an inside
                            pocket bulging with testimonials from people who were so glad to get out
                            of his clutches that they willingly perjured themselves by giving him
                            halfhearted certificates of good character. While you are in the hands
                            of the dragoman you feel like a dumb, driven cow. You follow the
                            fluttering nightshirt and the tall red fez of this arch villain for
                            hours at a time, not knowing where you are going, or why. He takes
                            absolute charge of you, either by making specious representations or
                            boldly assuming authority, and when you start out to visit the famous
                            mosque of old Midullah Oblongahta or some other defunct celebrity you
                            finish up in a junk shop for the sale of antiques, all of which are
                            personally guaranteed by the dragoman, because he is a silent partner in
                            the business.
                        In many countries, especially at times when the traveller must condense
                            his itinerary, the guide is a necessary evil, and in Egypt he is
                            supposed to be a sort of ornamental body guard. We found that we could
                            wander about without being haltered and led, so we spent pleasant hours
                            in the Mouski, which is the native shopping street, and also we went to
                            the  race meeting and saw native horses
                            and ponies, carrying 140 to 160 pounds each, saunter around a half-mile
                            track while a large number of English in Mardi Gras costumes drank
                            gallons of tea and simulated a polite interest.
                        One afternoon we wandered into a market and a man tried to sell me a
                            camel. Wherever we go, if a man has something he doesn't want,
                            he tries to sell it to me, and sometimes he does it. But I refused to
                            take the camel. I did not see how I could fold it up and secrete it so
                            as to get it through the custom house.
                        Camels in the Cairo market are now steady, not literally speaking, but as
                            regards their value. A good terra cotta camel, 55 to 60 hands high and
                            broken to single-foot, will fetch as high as $150. The older
                            onesspavined, hairless, or pigeontoed can be bought for as low as $50
                            each. The common or garden camel, trained to collapse like a pocket
                            camera and carry from three to eight tons of cargo, can usually be
                            bought at from $100 to $125.
                        Cairo, as a whole, was a big surprise to us. We knew that it was going to
                            be cosmopolitan, but we were not prepared to find it so metropolitan. We
                            had pictured it as one or two semi-European streets hedged in by a vast
                            area of native quarter. But,  unless you
                            seek out the old parts of the town or the bazaars, each showing a
                            distinct type of the Oriental shark, Cairo is outwardly quite modern,
                            very attractive, and decidedly gaythat is, not real wicked gayety of the
                            Parisian brand, but modified, winter-resort gayety, the kind that is
                            induced by the presence of money-spending tourists. There is no hurrah
                            night life, and gambling, which flourished here for many seasons under
                            the skilful direction of our countryman, Mr. Pat Sheedy, has yielded to
                            British reformatory influence.
                        The modern streets in Cairo, with their attractive hotels, residences,
                            and shops, suggest a blending of Paris and the Rivieraconsistent
                            architecture, trees, palms, gardens. The streets are of boulevard width,
                            and the houses of cheerful colouring, many of them bearing coloured
                            frescoes in delicate shades. We who live in a country of rainfall and
                            smoke and changing temperatures are impelled to stop and gaze in wonder
                            at a mansion of snowy white with a pattern of pale blossoms drooping
                            down the front of it. That style of decoration would last about twenty
                            minutes in Chicago.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII
                        ALL ABOUT OUR VISIT TO THE PYRAMID OF
                            CHEOPS
                        
                            D
                            URING the first three days in Cairo a brilliant and
                            original plan of action had been outlining itself in my mind. At last I
                            could not keep it to myself any longer, so I told Mr. Peasley.
                        "Do you know what I am going to do?" I asked.
                        Mr. Peasley did not.
                        "I am going to write up the Pyramids. I am going to tell who
                            built them and how long it took and how many blocks of stone they
                            contain. I shall have myself photographed sitting on a camel and holding
                            an American flag. Also, I shall describe in detail the emotions that
                            surge within me as I stand in the shadow of the Sphinx and gaze up at
                            that vast and imperturbable expanse of face."
                        "It's a great scheme," said Mr. Peasley,
                            "but you've been scooped. They've been
                            written up already."
                        "Are you sure?"
                        "Yes, sir; the whole outfit of Pyramids has been  described in a special article by a man
                            named Herodotus."
                        "How long since?"
                        "About 470 B. C."
                        He produced a guide book and proved that he was right. All the things
                            that I had been getting ready 
                                
                                    "Scooped!"
                                
                             to say about the Pyramids had been said by Herodotus. He had
                            got there ahead of mejust 2376  years
                            ahead of me. In daily newspaper competition, when some man gets his news
                            twenty-four hours ahead of another one he is proud of his
                            "beat" and is the hero of the office for fifteen or
                            twenty minutes. But think of trailing along twenty-four centuries behind
                            a Greek space writer! It took all the starch out of me.
                        Mr. Peasley suggested that inasmuch as considerable time had elapsed
                            since the appearance of the first write-up, possibly the average reader
                            would have only a dim recollection of it and accept my account as brand
                            new stuff. But I knew better. I knew that some old subscriber, with a
                            complete file put away in the bureau, would rise up and draw the deadly
                            parallel on me. All I can safely do in regard to the Pyramids is touch
                            up a few points overlooked by my predecessor.
                        Herodotus, by the way, had quite a time in Egypt. At that time
                            Shepheard's Hotel was not in operation, although it must have
                            been under way, and no round trip tickets were being issued by Cook, so
                            Herodotus had to do his own booking and put up at a boarding house. In
                            Memphis, which is now a fragmentary suburb of Cairo, Herodotus engaged a
                            guide. He does not tell us what he paid, but he does give us a line on
                            the character of the dragoman, who  was
                            full of superfluous and undesirable information, but who fell down when
                            asked to divulge facts of real importance. This proves that the breed
                            has not changed since 500 B. C.
                        The guide took Herodotus out to the Pyramids and filled him up. It is now
                            believed that most of what Herodotus sent back was merely hearsay, but
                            it made good reading. The Pyramids had been standing some two thousand
                            years, and any information in regard to their origin could hardly come
                            under the head of personal recollections. Whatever Herodotus had to say
                            about the Pyramids is now accepted as gospel, in spite of the fact that
                            he never saw them until twenty centuries after the last block of stone
                            had been put in place and Cheops had taken possession of the tomb
                            chambers. Rather late for a grand opening.
                        When he arrived at the Great Pyramid he stepped it off and put down the
                            dimensions, and then he remarked to some of the natives standing around
                            that it must have been quite a job to build a tomb of that size. They
                            said yes; it had been a big contract, and as the work had been completed
                            only two thousand years they were enabled to go into details. They gave
                            Herodotus a fine lay-out of round figures. They said that one hundred
                            thousand men had worked on  the job and
                            that the time required was thirty yearsten years to build the road and
                            the huge incline for bringing the blocks of stone into place, and then
                            twenty years to quarry the stone and transport it across the Nile and
                            the valley. The stone cutters worked all the year, and during the three
                            months' inundation, when farming was at a standstill, the
                            entire rural population turned out, just as they would at a husking bee
                            or a barn raising, and helped Cheops with his tomb. They did this year
                            after year for thirty years, until they had piled up 2,300,000 blocks of
                            stone, each containing forty cubic feet.
                        Herodotus discovered some large hieroglyphics on the face of the Pyramid
                            and asked the guide for a translation. It is now supposed that the guide
                            could not read. Anyone with education or social standing
                            wouldn't have been a guide, even in that remote period. But
                            this guide wanted to appear to be earning his salary and be justified in
                            demanding a tip, so he said that the inscription told how much garlic
                            and onions the labourers had consumed while at work on the job, and just
                            how much these had cost. Herodotus put it all down in his notebook
                            without batting an eye.
                        "How much did they spend for onions and garlic?" he
                            asked, poising his pencil.
                        
                        
                            
                                Herodotus put it all downwithout batting an eye
                            
                        
                        
                        The guide waited for a moment, so that his imagination could get a
                            running start, and then he replied, "They cost 1600 talents of
                            silver."
                        Now, that sum in talents is equivalent, under modern computation, to
                            350,000 English pounds, or $1,750,000. Think of a million
                            dollars' worth of garlic! Try to imagine the bouquet that
                            permeated the desert when one hundred thousand men who had been eating
                            garlic began to call for more bricks and mortar!
                        Herodotus told his story and got away with it. By the time the next
                            letter-writing traveller came along, a good many centuries later, the
                            outer casing of the Pyramid had been stripped off and the inscription
                            had disappeared. His story has stood because he was here ahead of the
                            rest of us and saw the marks with his own eyes and had them translated
                            by a tencent guide. But can you believe that a great monarch would
                            devote thirty years and sacrifice thousands of lives and work the whole
                            male population of his kingdom to skin and bones putting up a colossal
                            sepulchre and then set aside the most valuable space on this glorious
                            monument for telling how much onions and garlic had been fed to the
                            help?
                        Marco Polo, Mark Twain, and all the other great travellers of history
                            love to tell tall ones once in a  while,
                            but the garlic story by Herodotus will doubtless be regarded as a record
                            performance for a long time to come.
                        Cheops was possibly the most successful contractor in history. It is
                            estimated that he really did work one hundred thousand men in the
                            building of the great Pyramid, as related by Herodotus, and that he must
                            have devoted at least thirty years to the big undertaking. During all
                            that time he never had a strike or even a clash with the walking
                            delegate. The eight hour day was unknown, and no one dreamed of such a
                            thing as an arbitration committee. All he had to do was to give orders
                            and the entire population obeyed him. Everybody worked but Cheops. He
                            didn't even pay salaries. It is true that in a spirit of
                            generosity he set out a free lunch for the labourersabout $2,000,000
                            worth of garlic and onions. If he had tried to feed them on quail
                            probably he would have gone broke.
                        Nowadays visitors go out to the Pyramids by tramcar. For some reason we
                            had the notion, doubtless shared by many who have not been there, that
                            to get to the Pyramids one simply rides through Cairo and out onto the
                            flat desert. As a matter of fact, the Great Pyramid at Ghizeh, its two
                            smaller companions and the Sphinx are on a rocky plateau five miles to
                                 the west of the city. There is a
                            bee-line road across the lowlands. It is a wide and graded thoroughfare,
                            set with acacia trees, and as you ride out by trolley or carriage you
                            look up at the Pyramids, and when you are still three miles away they
                            seem to be at least a half-mile distant. At the end of the avenue and at
                            the foot of the hill there is a hotel, and from this point one may climb
                            or else charter a dumb animal.
                        Not knowing the ropes, we engaged a carriage at 100 piastres to take us
                            from the city out to the plateau. This is not as much as it sounds, but
                            it is about twice the usual rate. After we struck the long road leading
                            across the valley and saw the trolley cars gliding by and leaving us far
                            behind, we decided to send the carriage back to the city and take to the
                            trolley, where we would feel at home. The driver informed us that he
                            could not return to the city, as the big bridge had been opened to
                            permit the passing of boats, and that it would be three hours before he
                            could drive back to town. It seems that he was right. The big bridge
                            swings open but once a day, and then it stays open for a few hours, and
                            the man who finds himself "bridged" must either swim
                            or engage a boat.
                        It is a five minutes' climb from the end of the  drive up to the rocky plateau on which
                            the pyramids are perched, and the ordinary tourist goes afoot. But we
                            were pining for Oriental extravagance and new sensations, so we engaged
                            camels. The camel allotted to me was destitute of hair, and when first
                            discovered was in a comatose condition. His or her name was Zenobia, and
                            the brunette in charge said that its age was either six or sixty. It
                            sounded more like "six," but the general appearance of
                            the animal seemed to back up the "sixty" theory. As we
                            approached, Zenobia opened one eye and took a hard look at the party,
                            and then made a low wailing sound which doubtless meant "More
                            trouble for me." The venerable animal creaked at every joint as
                            it slowly rose into the air on the instalment plan, a foot or two at a
                            time.
                        We had come thousands of miles to see the Pyramids, and for the next ten
                            minutes we were so busy hanging on to those undulating ships of the
                            desert that we overlooked even the big Pyramid, which was spread out
                            before us 750 feet wide and 450 feet high. Riding a camel is like
                            sitting on a high trestle that is giving way at the joints and is about
                            to collapse. The distance to the ground is probably ten feet, but you
                            seem to be fifty feet in the air. As soon as we could escape from the
                            camels we walked around  and gazed in
                            solemn silence at the Sphinx and the three Pyramids and doubtless
                            thought all of the things that were appropriate to the time and
                            place.
                        The great Pyramid of Cheops has been advertised so extensively that
                            doubtless many people will be surprised to learn that there is a whole
                            flock of Pyramids on this plateau along the edge of the Libyan desert.
                            There are Pyramids to the north and Pyramids to the south, five groups
                            in all, sixty of them, and they vary in size from a stingy little mound
                            looking like an extinct lime kiln up to the behemoth specimen which is
                            photographed by every Cook tourist.
                        Why do these Pyramids vary so greatly in size? Each was built by some
                            royal personage as an enduring monument to his administration and the
                            last resting place of his remains. The most eminent students of
                            Egyptology now agree that the size of each of these Pyramids is a fair
                            measure of the length of each king's reign. The reason that
                            Cheops has the biggest Pyramid is that he held office longer than the
                            others. When a king mounted the throne, if he was feeling rugged and was
                            what an insurance company would call a "preferred
                            risk" he would block out the foundation of a Pyramid tomb that
                            would require, say, ten years for the building. If, at the end  of ten years, he was still feeling in
                            good physical condition and confident of lasting a while longer he would
                            widen the foundations and put on additional layers up to the summit.
                            Labor was free and materials were cheap, and he kept everybody working
                            on his tomb as long as he lived. Finally, when the court physicians
                            began to warn him that his time was limited, he would begin putting on
                            the outer coating of dressed stone and arrange for the inscriptions. The
                            ruler who lasted only three or four years was buried in a squatty little
                            Pyramid, which soon became hidden under the drifting sands of the
                            desert. Cheops kept piling up the huge blocks for thirty years, and that
                            is why his Pyramid holds the record. If Methusaleh had been a Pyramid
                            builder he would have been compelled to put up a tomb probably a mile
                            and a half high and about eleven miles around the base. In a
                            revolutionary South American republic the ruler would probably get no
                            further than laying the corner stone.
                        We visited the pyramids. Also, we looked at the golf links, staked out
                            across the barren sandsnot to be played on, but merely to be featured in
                            the hotel advertisement. Think of a golf course which is one huge
                            hazard! Drive the ball in any direction and you can't play out
                            of the sand! Forty centuries gazing  down
                            on a bow-legged tourist in fuzzy Scotch stockings!
                        Most of the pleasure seekers that we encountered in the neighbourhood of
                            the Pyramids seemed to be quite elderlysome of the more sprightly as
                            young as sixty, and from that going up to where it would be better to
                            stop guessing. Mr. Peasley gave an explanation of their presence. He
                            said that the dry climate of Egypt would preserve antiquities for an
                            indefinite period.
                        Here they were, these male and female octogenarians, not propped up in
                            arm chairs dividing the family silverware and arranging bequests to
                            hospitals and libraries, but out on the blinding desert, thousands of
                            miles from home, falling off donkeys, climbing up on camels, devouring
                            guide books, rummaging around for time tables, kicking on the charges,
                            and leading on the whole a life of purple strenuosity. We heard of two
                            English women, sisters, both over seventy, who had just returned from
                            Khartoum, from which point they had gone on a hunting expedition still
                            further into the interior. They had to wear mosquito bags and semi-male
                            attire, and were out in the wild country for days at a time, chasing
                            gazelles, hyenas, and other indigenous fauna.
                        
                        Just as I am about to conclude this treatise it occurs to me that,
                            although I have given a wealth of useful information regarding the
                            Pyramids, I have rather overlooked our old friend the Sphinx. I can only
                            say in passing that it looks exactly like the printed advertisements.
                            There is no deception about it. It is in a bad state of repair, but this
                            is not surprising when we consider its age. Herodotus does not mention
                            the Sphinx. It was right there at the time. In fact, it had been there
                            fourteen hundred years when he first arrived. It seems strange that an
                            observing traveller should have overlooked a monument sixty-six feet
                            high, with a face nearly fourteen feet wide, a nose five feet and seven
                            inches long, and wearing a smile that measures over seven feet!
                            Herodotus either walked by without seeing it or else he did not think it
                            worthy of mention. The only plausible explanation is that he was too
                            busy figuring up the garlic statistics.
                    
                
                
                
                    ON THE NILE
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV
                        DASHING UP THE NILE IN COMPANY WITH MR. PEASLEY
                            AND OTHERS
                        
                            T
                            HE dream of many years has come true. We are moving
                            (southward) up the Nile. Like busy sand flies we are flitting, almost
                            daily, across white patches of desert to burrow into second-hand tombs
                            and crick our necks looking up at mutilated temples.
                        Ten years ago not one of us had ever heard of Koti or Khnemhotep. Now we
                            refer to them in the most casual way, as if we had roomed with them for
                            a while. It is certainly a gay life we are leading over the cemetery
                            circuit. Just think what rollicking fun it must be to revel day after
                            day in sarcophagi and sepulchres, stumbling through subterranean
                            passages and kicking up the dust of departed kings, peering down into
                            mummy pits, also trying to stretch the imagination like a rubber band so
                            that we may get the full significance of what is meant by 1500 B. C.
                            People come to Egypt to cure nervous depression and then spend
                            nine-tenths of their time hanging around tombs. Why come all the way to
                            Egypt? 
                            
                                
                                    It is certainly a gay life
                                
                            
                             Why not go out to Woodlawn and run foot
                            races from one family vault to another?
                        Mr. Peasley has no use for the tombs we have seen up to date. At
                            Beni-Hassan we rode on donkeys and climbed hills for half an hour to
                            inspect several large cubes of dim atmosphere surrounded by limestone.
                            At Assiut we put in the best part of the afternoon toiling up to another
                            gloomy cavern. While we stood in the main chamber of the tomb of
                            Hapzefai (whoever he was), trying to pump up some enthusiasm, Mr.
                            Peasley mopped his brow and declared himself.
                        "I'll tell you what I can do," he said.
                            "I can take a hundred pounds of dynamite and a gang of dagoes
                            and go anywhere along the Hudson and blow out a tomb in a
                            week's time that will beat anything we've seen in
                            Egypt. Then I'll hire a boy with a markin' brush to
                            draw some one-legged men and some tall women with their heads turned the
                            wrong way, and I'll charge six dollars to go in, and make my
                            fortune."
                        The significance of the "six dollars" is that every
                            traveller who wishes to visit the antiquities must pay a government tax
                            of 120 piastres. He receives a "monument ticket,"
                            which he must show to the guard before entering any tomb or temple. I
                            regret to say that the tickets are often passed along by departing 
                            
                                
                                    Why come all the way to Egypt?
                                
                            
                             travellers to those newly arrived, and as
                            the guards do not read English, anything that looks like a monument
                            ticket will satisfy the man at the door. At Beni-Hassan Mr. Peasley
                            discovered, when he arrived at the tombs, that he had left his ticket at
                            the boat. Fortunately, a fellow traveller had an extra ticket with him
                            and Mr. Peasley had no difficulty in gaining admission to all the tombs
                            under the name of "Miss Ella McPherson."
                        Before plunging into the details of our voyage, it is only fair that the
                            indulgent reader should know how and why we came boating up the Nile.
                            And first of all he should know something about this wonderful river.
                            The Nile has been described one million times, at a rough guess, and yet
                            at the risk of dealing out superfluous information I am going to insert
                            some geography.
                        Total length, nearly four thousand miles. For thousands and thousands of
                            years it has supported a swarming population along its banks, and yet
                            until fifty years ago no one knew from whence it came. The inhabitants
                            suspected that it came from somewhere, but they were too busy paying
                            taxes and building pyramids to worry about scientific discoveries. For
                            1200 miles up stream from the delta outlet the Nile does not receive any
                            tributary. It winds  over a limestone base
                            and through a rainless desert between high and barren tablelands.
                            Occasionally, where there is a granite formation, the stream is narrowed
                            and forces its way through rushing rapids, and these are known as the
                            "cataracts." The first of these is at Assouan, about
                            six hundred miles up stream.
                        Assouan has for many centuries marked the border line of Egypt proper. To
                            the south is the land of the warlike blacks, who have been
                            trouble-makers from the beginning of time. This First Cataract is the
                            usual terminus of tourist travel, but those who wish to see Nubia and
                            the Soudan board a small steamer, pass through the locks of the new dam,
                            and go by river 210 miles to Wadi Halfa, thence by rail 576 miles to
                            Khartoum. It is here, about thirteen hundred and fifty miles up stream,
                            that the White and Blue Niles converge and bring down from the rainy
                            equatorial regions the floods of muddy water which are the annual
                            salvation of Egypt.
                        Ten years ago Khartoum seemed as inaccessible as the North Pole. It was
                            headquarters for the most desperate swarm of frenzied fanatics that ever
                            swept a region with fire and sword. They had wiped out British armies
                            and put Gordon's head on a pole. They were in a drunken ecstasy
                            of Mohammedan  zeal, eager to fight and
                            ready to die, and they got all that they were looking for.
                        It is less than eight years since Kitchener went down to call on them. Of
                            all the cold-blooded and frozen-featured military tacticians of the
                            inexorable school, Kitchener stands pre-eminent. General Grant in his
                            grimmest moment was absolutely emotional and acrobatic as compared with
                            Kitchener. He carried ice water in his veins, and his mental machinery
                            ticked with Birmingham regularity. He did not get excited and dash into
                            the open trap, as all the others had done. He moved slowly but
                            relentlessly into the dread country and built a railroad as he went
                            along. He carried everything that a British army needsmarmalade, polo
                            ponies, Belfast ginger ale, tinned meats, pipe clay, etc.
                        "We cannot stampede them, because stampeding is their
                            specialty," said Kitchener, "but I will lick them by
                            algebra."
                        He did not say this, because he never said anything, but this is what he
                            indicated by his calm preparations. He knew that the dervishes were
                            frothing at the mouth and praying Allah to give them another chance to
                            swim in gore, so he simply edged up to within striking distance of them
                            and picked out his ground and waited. A kinetoscope hero would have  galloped up and down the line shouting,
                            "Up, men, and at them!" But Kitchener was not a hero.
                            He was business manager of an abattoir. His object was not to win a
                            great battle, but to exterminate a species. And he probably did one of
                            the neatest jobs of house cleaning on record.
                        The bloodthirsty mob, led by the Khalifa, as principal maniac, charged
                            across an open plain. Each determined dervish carried in his right hand
                            a six foot spear, with which he hoped to do considerable damage. When he
                            still lacked about a mile of being within poking distance of the hated
                            infidel, the machine guns opened up and began to sweep the plain back
                            and forth in long regular swaths, just as the sickle sweeps through the
                            yellow grain. It was quite a handicap for the invincible children of
                            Allah. They could not use their six foot spears on anyone a mile away,
                            and before they could recover from the chagrin occasioned by this
                            unexpected move on the part of the enemy, about eleven thousand of them
                            had winged their way to eternal happiness and the others were radiating
                            in all directions, pursued by those who wished to civilise them and
                            bring them under British control. Those of the dervishes who escaped are
                            supposed to be still running. At least they never came back to start
                            another Messiah movement.
                        
                        Ten years ago the Soudan was sealed to the whole world and death waited
                            for the unbeliever who crossed the border. To-day the table
                                d-hte roams unafraid, and the illustrated post card blooms even
                            as the rose.
                        The Nile of which you have read and along which are scattered the simon
                            pure monuments of antiquity is the six hundred miles of winding river
                            between Assouan, or First Cataract, and the sea. For the entire
                            distance, until it spreads into a fan-shaped delta and filters into the
                            Mediterranean, the stream is walled in by flat-topped hills of barren
                            aspect. They are capped with limestone and carpeted about with shifting
                            sands, and they look for all the world like the mesas of New Mexico and
                            Arizona, for they lie baking in the same kind of clarified sunshine.
                            This meandering hollow between the rugged hill ranges is the Valley of
                            the Nile. Here and there the hills close in until the river banks are
                            high and chalky cliffs. At one point the valley spreads to a width of
                            thirty-three miles.
                        East and west of the hills are vast areas of desert without even a spear
                            of vegetation except where there is a miraculous rise of water to the
                            surface. These spots are grateful landmarks of clustered palms and are
                            known as oases.
                        
                        The Valley of the Nile would be just as bare and monotonous as an asphalt
                            pavement were it not for the fact that once a year the Nile overflows.
                            It has been overflowing every year for thousands of years, bringing down
                            from the mountains of Abyssinia and the far-away regions of tropical
                            rains a spreading volume of muddy water. Every winter, when the
                            dwindling stream gets back into the customary bed, it has left a layer
                            of black sediment over the inundated district. So many layers of
                            sediment have been deposited that now the rich black soil is thirty to
                            fifty feet deep along the river, thinning out as it meets the slope of
                            the desert. Unlike our prairie soil of the Middle West, the Nile farms
                            are not underlaid with clay. The Nile soil is black all the way down to
                            limestonea floury mineral powder of even composition. The only parts of
                            Egypt which can be cultivated are those touched by the annual overflow.
                            Egypt is really a ribbon of alluvial soil following the stream on either
                            side. The tourist standing on the top deck of a Nile steamer can see
                            both east and west the raw and broken edges of the desert.
                        The entire population lives on the river, literally and figuratively.
                            Dark-robed women come down to the stream in endless processions to fill
                            their water jars, and it seems that about every forty feet or so  all the way up from Cairo the industrious
                            fellah is lifting water up the bank and irrigating his little field with
                            the same old-fashioned sweep and bucket arrangement that was in use when
                            Joseph came over to Egypt and attracted the attention of
                            Potiphar's wife. The Egyptian farmer is called a fellah. The
                            clothing that he wears would wad a gunthat is, a rifle, not a shotgun.
                            He puts in at least fourteen hours a day and his pay is from ten to
                            fifteen cents. Mr. Peasley told a tourist the other day that the song
                            "He's a jolly good fellah" originated in
                            Egypt during the time of the Ptolemies. This is a sample of the kind of
                            idiotic observation that is supposed to enliven a so-called pleasure
                            trip.
                        But let us get back to the river, for in Egypt one must get back to the
                            river at least once every twenty minutes. The Nile is Egypt and Egypt is
                            the Nile. All this description may sound like a few pages from the
                            trusty red guide book, and yet the word "Egypt" will
                            have no meaning to the reader who does not get a clear panoramic vision
                            of this wonderfully slim-waisted country. Nearly six hundred miles long
                            and yet containing only twelve thousand five hundred square milesabout
                            the size of Maryland.
                        The strip of black land which yields the plentiful crops is nowhere more
                            than ten miles wide, a mere  fringe of
                            fertility weaving along through dryness and desolation. Anywhere along
                            the river if you will climb to the rocky plateau, you will see the slow
                            moving river, probably a half-mile wide, as a glassy thread on which are
                            strung fields of living green, bordered by the dreary uplifts of desert.
                            The traveller who goes by boat from Cairo to Assouan sees all of Egypt.
                            The cities and temples and tombs of olden times were perched on the high
                            spots or planted in the bare hills, so as to be safe from the annual
                            rise of waters. Anything worth seeing in the whole country is within an
                            easy donkey ride of the river bank. The river is the only artery of
                            travel. There is a railway, but it follows the river all the way up to
                            Assouan.
                        It would seem that the country was especially laid out and punctuated
                            with "sights" for the convenience of the modern
                            traveller, for the visitor who goes up the Nile and stops off at the
                            right spots can do a clean job of sight seeing without doubling on his
                            tracks.
                        Until a few years age the tourist going up the Nile had to take a
                            dahabeah. This sounds like the name of a disease, but it is really a
                            big, roomy, flat-bottomed sailboat. The dahabeah moves only when the
                            wind is in the right direction, and to go from Cairo  to Assouan requires the greater part of a
                            lifetime. Those travellers who have money to burn and who are content to
                            settle down to many weeks of rest and indolence charter the private
                            dahabeahs. When a traveller goes aboard a dahabeah he tears up the
                            calendar and lets his watch run down. Those who have more money and are
                            in a hurry use the private steam dahabeahs.
                        A majority of travellers go by passenger boats. The tourist steamers
                            devote three weeks to a loafing voyage up to Assouan and back, with
                            daily excursions to the graveyards and ruins. The express steamers,
                            carrying freight and native passengers, take less time for the round
                            trip, as they skip some of the less interesting antiquities. We took an
                            express steamer, thereby missing many of the tombs and temples, but
                            still getting enough of them to last us for the next hundred years or
                            so.
                        Our steamer is a frail affair, double decked and of no draught worth
                            mentioning. It resembles the old style of Missouri River boat, built to
                            run on a heavy dew. There are thirty passengers, who devote most of
                            their time to lolling on deck waiting for the next meal. Mud banks,
                            natives hoisting water, green fields stretching away to the bald range
                            of hills, 'dobe huts, spindly palms, now and then a solemn  row of camels, always several donkeys and
                            goats in evidence, every few miles the tall stack of a sugar mill,
                            perpetual sunshineit is monotonous travel, and yet there is continually
                            something doing along the banks, and the traveller cannot get away from
                                
                                
                                    Lying back to watch others work
                                
                             that feeling of satisfaction which results from lying back to
                            watch other people work.
                        And the sunsets! You cannot estimate the real dignity and artistic value
                            of a camel until you see  him or her
                            silhouetted against a sky of molten gold just at twilight. I have made
                            two or three attempts to describe the glory of a sunset in the desert,
                            but I find myself as helpless as Mr. Peasley, who, after gazing for five
                            minutes at the flaming horizon can only murmur a low but reverent
                            "Gosh!"
                        It may interest the reader to hear what Baedeker has to say on the
                            subject. Baedeker says (p. 216) "The sunsets are very
                            fine." That's what I like about Baedeker. He
                            doesn't fuss over a lot of words and tack on superfluous
                            adjectives. As soon as he has imparted the necessary information in a
                            trim and concise manner he moves on to the next subject.
                        I am sending herewith two sketches which show the beauty and variety of
                            landscape to which we are treated every day. View No. 1 is most
                            characteristic. We see before us the rippling Nile and beyond it the
                            sheer river bank of black dirt. Then the field of waving grain, in the
                            distance the range of hills, and over all a dazzling sunshine.
                        No. 2 is more varied. Again we have the river, the mud
                            bank, and the growing crops, together with the distant hills, behind
                            which the sun is silently sinking. In the foreground at the left is a
                            majestic palm. The structure at the right is a native house and will
                            indicate something of the simple life of the agriculturist.  The complicated device on the river bank
                            at stage centre is the shadouf, used for lifting water from the stream.
                            The cavernous opening in the distant hill (marked X in the drawing) is
                            the entrance to a rock tomb. By studying this picture the reader 
                                
                                    View of the NileNo. 1
                             may get a very fair understanding of the architectural
                            splendour of these ancient seuplchres.
                        Travelling on the Nile has two reliable features to commend it. The
                            weather is always fair and the native population constantly enlivens the
                            picture, for the lower river is crowded with sails and every inch along
                            the banks is under cultivation. Also, the Nile  has some surprises in store. Two definite delusions are
                            soon shattered.
                        Delusion No. 1.HEAT. It is not always warm in Egypt. In the middle of the
                            day, out of the wind 
                                
                                    View of the NileNo. 2
                                
                             and on the desert, it may work up to a good summery
                            temperature at this season, but in the shade it is cool, and as soon as
                            the sun has set, a bracing autumnal chill comes into the air and the
                            heavy overcoat is needed. The north wind can be very chiselly at times.
                            If coming to Egypt, bring your flannels along.
                        
                        Delusion No. 2.CROCODILES. There are no crocodiles in
                            the Nile. We have always supposed that the bank of the river was
                            polka-dotted with these monsters, lying in wait for small, dark
                            children. It is said that two thousand years ago the Nile was bordered
                            with papyrus reeds or bullrushes, within the tangles of which lurked
                            hippopotami, crocodiles, dragomans, and other reptiles, but the animals
                            have disappeared, and so has the river vegetation. The other day we
                            visited the island on which Pharaoh's daughter discovered
                            little Moses. The island is still there, but there isn't a
                            bullrush within a mile of it.
                        One of the penalties of travel is to have old and settled beliefs
                            uprooted. For instance, there are no Maltese cats in Malta, no Venetian
                            blinds in Venice, no Roman punch in Rome. If you want Neapolitan ice
                            cream in Naples you must send out for it. You may walk about all day in
                            Bologna without seeing a pound of Bologna sausage. Egyptian cigarettes
                            are known throughout the world, and yet no tobacco is grown in Egypt. Go
                            to Manhattan Beach and everybody is drinking Martinis. Truly, the
                            stereotyped labels are deceptive.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XV
                        DAY BY DAY ON THE DROWSY NILE. WITH SOMETHING
                            ABOUT THE WONDERFUL HASSIM
                        
                            W
                            HILE we were in London we dined one evening at a
                            gorgeous hotel with a Mr. Brewster, of Connecticut. After dinner, Mr.
                            Peasley told the waiter to bring some "good cigars."
                            Mr. Peasley resides in Iowa, where it is customary to stroll down to the
                            drug store after supper and buy a couple of Lottie Lees, which are so
                            good that the druggist cannot afford to give six for a quarter. Not
                            being familiar with the favourite brands of London, he called on Mr.
                            Brewster to name the cigar of his choice, and Mr. Brewster said he was
                            very fond of the Corona del Matadora, or something like that, because
                            the entire crop in Cuba was taken over by a London dealer, and they
                            could not be obtained in New York for love or money. The waiter brought
                            what appeared to be a very superior article of stogie, and after they
                            had been passed around, Mr. Peasley put several into his pockets, as we
                            were going to a music  hall, and Mr.
                            Peasley had learned that tobacco acted as a sedative and helped one to
                            remain calm while listening to British jokes.
                        "How much?" he asked.
                        "Three and six," replied the waiter.
                        
                            
                                "Each," said the waiter
                            
                        
                        Mr. Peasley handed him three and six.
                        "Each," said the waiter.
                        Mr. Peasley swallowed something and his eyes leaned from their sockets,
                            but he said nothing. He  handed over two
                            sovereigns, and the change that came back to him was almost sufficient
                            for the waiter's tip. There was a brief silence and then Mr.
                            Peasley said:"Three shillings is seventy-five centsseventy-five
                            and twelve make eighty-seven."
                        Another silence.
                        "Eighty-seven cents," sighed Mr. Peasley.
                            "Three bushels of oats for a cigar!"
                        When Mr. Brewster crossed our trail in Egypt and became our fellow
                            passenger on a Nile steamer Mr. Peasley remembered him and longed for a
                            chance to get even.
                        Our friend from Connecticut was wearing a large canopy helmetthe kind
                            that makes a short man look like a walking piano-stool. We were wearing
                            the same outlandish style of headgear and for some reason or other, no
                            person being responsible for what he does when he is away from home, Mr.
                            Peasley had his name boldly marked in Arabic on the front of his helmet.
                            It didn't look like anything, but it was real Arabic and said
                            his name was Peasley and that he came from Iowa and he was very proud of
                            it. He urged Mr. Brewster to have his helmet marked in a similar
                            way.
                        "I hardly like the idea of wearing my name on my hat,"
                            said the man from Connecticut.
                        
                        "But when you get home and hang the thing up in your den with
                            the Navajo blankets and swords and other curios, think what a fine
                            souvenir it will be," urged Mr. Peasley.
                        Mr. Brewster finally consented and Mr. Peasley took the helmet to the
                            head steward, who was a native, and in a few minutes he brought it back
                            magnificently lettered all over the front. It surely did look Oriental
                            and decorative and Mr. Brewster was grateful when he saw how beautifully
                            his name and New England address showed up in Arabic.
                        That afternoon we landed at Assiut, which is headquarters for a most
                            wolfish assortment of guides, street peddlers, and hold-up men who work
                            in the bazaars. Most of them are Copts and claim to be good Christians,
                            but we did not feel impelled to throw up our hats on that account. When
                            they bore down upon us and started to wrestle with us we could hardly
                            distinguish any difference between them and the ordinary heathen.
                        From the moment that we landed, Mr. Brewster of Connecticut attracted
                            more attention than any other person in the party. Four guides laid hold
                            of him at the same moment and declined to let go. Later on, in the
                            bazaar, every dealer who sighted him gave a glad guttural cry and tried
                            to drag him 
                            
                                
                                    "Rich Americaneasy mark"
                                
                            
                             into one of the stuffy little shops. The
                            arrival of an ordinary tourist is calculated to agitate a bazaar, but
                            when Mr. Brewster appeared the general effect was the same as when the
                            raw meat is carried into the zoo. He was pulled and hauled and for the
                            whole length of the winding bazaar his way was blocked by frantic
                            villains in white gowns and huge turbans, who dangled tawdry merchandise
                            in front of him and begged him to make an offer. Mr. Brewster was a good
                            deal amazed, and we were more or less puzzled until we came back to the
                            boat and Mr. Peasley confessed that the Arabic characters boldly
                            displayed on Mr. Brewster's helmet did not stand for his name
                            and address at all, but meant, as nearly as could be translated,
                            "Rich AmericanEasy Mark."
                        Poor Mr. Brewster! At the present writing he is still wearing that bold
                            label, wandering in and out of shops and around hotels, inviting the
                            attacks of guides, donkey boys, servants, and peddlers. It seemed a
                            rather low-down trick, but Mr. Peasley said that probably it would
                            flatter Mr. Brewster to learn that anyone from Connecticut could attract
                            so much attention in a foreign country.
                        Arabic is surely a weird excuse for a language. In its written form it
                            looks like the bird-track illustrations in one of Thompson Seton
                            Thompson's  books, and instead of
                            reading it from left to right you begin at the tail end of a sentence
                            and back up all the way. In reading an Arabic novel you turn to the end
                            of the book and read the last chapter first, and if it develops that the
                            fellow marries the girl, naturally that saves a lot of trouble. In its
                            right to left character the Arabic is somewhat like the Hebrew or Lower
                            Broadway language, which also begins at the leaving-off place. This fact
                            reminded a New York man of a story. He said that in one of the east side
                            Assembly districts of New York city a large body of Yiddish voters,
                            recently arrived in the land of the somewhat free and the home of the
                            more or less brave, had been rounded up very carefully by the Tammany
                            workers. The voters were not familiar with the workings of the
                            Australian ballot system, and had to be instructed by the Tammany ward
                            heelers, who said:"All you have to do is to put a cross mark in
                            the circle at the top of the first column, see?" That seemed
                            simple enough, so the voters went into the booths and marked the
                            firstthat is, the right handcolumn, and elected the Prohibition
                            candidate.
                        The Arabic language, when spoken, sounds very much like an agitated
                            person trying to dislodge a fish bone. It is one of the most unmusical
                            tongues  in the world and offers no
                            tempting inducements to the student, yet Mr. Peasley actually bought one
                            of those "Arabic at a Glance" books and started to
                            learn some of the more useful sentences. He said that if he could get
                            Arabic down pat he would pass as a native and be enabled to buy things
                            at about half price. After two days of hard study he attempted a
                            conversation with a military policeman standing on the river bank at
                            Dendera. Mr. Peasley strolled up to him, careless like, and said,
                            "Ana awez arabiyet kwayesset min shan arookh el
                            balad." That was supposed to mean, "I want a
                            first-class carriage for driving in the town." The stalwart
                            soldier gazed at Mr. Peasley with a most bewildered look in his jet
                            black eyes and then began to edge away.
                        "Hold on," said Mr. Peasley. "How about hal
                            yel zamna ghafar yerafegua bill tareeg?"
                        Mr. Peasley thought he was asking, "Shall we require a guide or
                            an escort in this town?"
                        The soldier beckoned to us to come over and help him out.
                        "Tell him, please, that I am educate at the Presbyterian
                            Mission," said he. "I speak only English and
                            Arabic."
                        We questioned him later and learned that he took  Mr. Peasley to be a Russian. This one little experience
                            rather discouraged our travelling companion. He said it was foolish to
                            waste important dialogue 
                                
                                    "How about hal yel zamna ghafar yerafegua
                                        bill tareeg?"
                                
                             on a lot of benighted ignorami who did not know their own
                            language.
                        As a matter of fact, English carries the tourist everywhere in Egypt. The
                            American Mission School,  supported by the
                            Presbyterians, is a proud local institution in each good-sized town. At
                            every landing along the river small boys from the mission schools would
                            come down to the boat to ask for English books. These requests were such
                            a welcome variation from the everlasting howl for
                            "baksheesh" that the over-generous passengers soon
                            gave away all the reading matter on board and had nothing left for
                            themselves except Baedekers and time tables. I saw a silver-haired old
                            lady from Philadelphia give to a coal-black and half-naked child of
                            eight a volume of Browning's poems in paper cover. The dusky
                            infant clasped the book to his bare bosom and shouted his thanks as the
                            boat headed up stream, and the old lady was so gratified and happy that
                            she stood looking at him with tear-dimmed eyes and never gave a thought
                            as to what might happen to his intellect. At one town, just as we were
                            casting off, I threw an American magazine to a handsome little tike who
                            had been asking for English literature. It fell on the dock, and twenty
                            small boys began fighting for it and tearing it to pieces. I never saw
                            such a thirst for advertising matter.
                        Our voyage from Cairo to Luxor was punctuated with so many new
                            experiences that possibly it would  be
                            better to take them in order. Egypt is the land of leisurely travel. If
                            you look at the map the distance from Cairo to Luxor seems only a good
                            hop, skip, and jump. It is 458 miles by rail and the lightning express
                            does it in fifteen hours, the same being considered a record
                            performance. Our boat left Cairo one Friday afternoon and arrived at
                            Luxor the following Thursday morning. We chugged slowly against the
                            current all the way, tying up every night and getting away before
                            daybreak next morning. Several times we changed pilots. The Nile pilot
                            is usually a grizzled old sheikh with the doubtful combination of a
                            department store spring overcoat and a red fez. He stands at the wheel
                            bossing the crew while the ostensible captain or manager, who is a
                            budding European in a neat uniform, has nothing much to do except
                            circulate on the upper deck and pour tea for a little cluster of
                            intellectual giantesses from England. Two sailors stand well forward on
                            the lower deck, one on each side, jabbing at the river with poles in
                            order to get the depth of the channel. If the boat runs into water less
                            than six inches deep they become alarmed and start to yelp. Occasionally
                            the gallant craft strikes a bar and comes to a tired pause, whereupon
                            all the passengers say "Mgh!" and lurch out of their
                            camp  stools. Then there is a little
                            welcome excitement and the natives of the crew run around in circles and
                            call upon Allah for temporary assistance. With much grunting, both by
                            the boat and the men at the poles, the good Hatasoo backs out of the mud
                            and takes a fresh start, zigzagging through the shallows until deep
                            water is foundthat is, a depth of anywhere from three to four feet. The
                            Nile is just as finical and unreliable as a Missouri or Mississippi, the
                            tortuous channel constantly shifting, and the pilot needs to be an
                            expert with a memory like an encyclopaedia. Fortunately there are no
                            snags. Wood is about the most precious commodity in Egypt, and all the
                            snags were fished out and utilised some two thousand years before we
                            happened along. Although our voyage lasted five full days we went ashore
                            only three times. As I have already explained, the traveller need not
                            leave the Nile steamer in order to see nearly everything that is
                            happening in Egypt. Leaving Cairo late on Friday afternoon, we made two
                            stops on Saturday to discharge freight and take on natives. Many of the
                            women came aboard closely veiled and were at once secreted in a canvas
                            compartment on the lower deck. These precautions seemed to be needless.
                            Two adjectives will best describe the pride of the haremshabby and
                            flabby. Unless you  wish to lose all
                            enthusiasm for the Arabian Nights, keep away from Egypt.
                        Sunday.Arriving at Beni Hassan at ten o'clock we went ashore and
                            climbed on midget donkeys and rode away to explore the rock tombs. Beni
                            Hassan has been for several centuries the home of an obstreperous breed
                            of cutthroats. Repeated attempts have been made to exterminate or
                            scatter the tribe, but it is still in existence, although somewhat
                            subdued. The government keeps a guard of soldiers at the town, and when
                            we landed we found ourselves surrounded by the military, while the
                            natives stood back of the dead-line and gazed at us hungrily. There we
                            began to get close glimpses of the domestic life of the plain
                            people.
                        A mud wall enclosure with a hut at one end. Within this squalid pen,
                            women in bedraggled black gowns, children in semi-attire and closely
                            attended by swarms of flies, two or three emaciated goats, a few
                            chickens, and a somnolent burro. At present the live stock and the
                            Egyptians live on terms of democratic equality, but since the English
                            have introduced the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals it
                            is hoped that the situation will be remedied.
                        On Monday, at two o'clock, we landed at Assiut,  after passing through the locks of the
                            first big barrage or dam built under British direction and intended to
                            regulate the water level of the lower Nile and the delta during the dry
                            season. Assiut is a big town with some showy buildings, an attractive
                            bazaar, and a guide who represents the thirty-third degree of
                            scoundrelism. His name is Hassim. If you should visit Assiut and wish to
                            become acquainted with the very pink and flower of villainy, hunt up
                            Hassim. Perhaps it will be unnecessary to hunt him up. He will be
                            waiting for you, just as he was waiting for us. When we went ashore we
                            were attacked by a flying wedge of donkey boys and carriage drivers, all
                            shrieking like demons and kicking up such clouds of dust as can be found
                            only in a country where the showers are a century apart. By striking out
                            right and left we held off our assailants and succeeded in boarding a
                            rickety victoria. When we escaped from the clamour and the clouds of
                            dust and took our bearings Hassim was on the box alongside of the
                            driver. He had attached himself to us on his own invitation and we are
                            glad that he did so, for he proved to be a rascal of such inventive
                            fancy and such unusual methods of attack that our natural resentment was
                            fairly lost in admiration. He was tall and lean, with a stern and
                            military countenance and  one eye set at
                            an angle. His manner was imperious and from the moment when he fastened
                            himself upon us he was in absolute charge of the expedition.
                        "Fear not," he said, holding up his hand impressively,
                            "I shall protect you. You shall see the rock tombs and the
                            grand view of the valley and the great bazaar of Assiut and no one shall
                            do you harm, for I am Hassim, son of Abdalla."
                        This had a most assuring sound, so we made no resistance. For several
                            hours he marched ahead of us, proclaiming our social importance and
                            ordering people out of the way, and every ten minutes he led us into
                            some carefully concealed trap and tried to separate us from our
                            piasters. All the time he went through the motions of defending our
                            interests and fighting back those who would defraud us. For instance, in
                            the bazaar. In a thoughtless moment I had said that I wished to purchase
                            an ebony walking-stick. He led us to a dealer in walking-sticks, and
                            here the following drama was played for our benefit:
                        Hassim (to dealer)This distinguished gentleman wishes to buy an ebony
                            walking-stick. Show him your best goods and let the price be fair or
                            never more shall I bring customers to your vile shop. (To the crowd
                            jostling in upon us)Stand back! Do  not
                            crowd upon the honourable gentlemen from America.
                        Dealer (showing an ebony stick with a badly carved handle of bone,
                            supposed to be ivory)Ah, see! Yes! Verra good stick! Is it not? Verra
                            cheap.
                        I (looking at it coldly and shaking my head as if in disapproval)How
                            much?
                        DealerVerra cheaponly twenty shilling.
                        HassimWha-a-t! (He rushes upon the dealer, smites him on the chest with
                            his open hand and then tries to choke him). Oh, dog! Oh, unclean animal!
                            Twenty shilling! (To us) Come! Let us go away. He is bad man. Come!
                        Dealer (entreatingly)You make me offer. How much you give?
                        HassimOh, child of darkness! Oh, crawling crocodile! You are trying to
                            cheat the high-born visitors.
                        Dealer (cringingly)How much you give?
                        Hassim (to me)Come, I will speak with you alone. (He leads me away from
                            the crowd and talks to me in a husky whisper.) This man is bad man. Do
                            not pay him twenty bob. No one is looking. You slip the money to me and
                            I will buy it for fifteen.
                        Now, fifteen shillings is $3.75 in real money, and the stick is worth a
                            dollar at the most extravagant  valuation,
                            so I say to Hassim, "Are you in on this?"
                        He does not understand, but he looks at me as if hurt or disappointed,
                            and then says, "I try to get it for ten. Wait
                            here."
                        Then I catch him by the slack of the blue gown and say that I will not
                            give ten. I authorise him to offer fifteen piastersseventy-five cents.
                            He says it will be useless to offer such a small sum, as the ivory comes
                            from the elephant and hunters must search many days to find the elephant
                            and then carry the tusk forty-seven thousand miles across the burning
                            desert to sell it to the dealer in Assiut. So I tell him to stand back
                            and I will negotiate in my own behalf. So I break through the crowd and
                            offer three shillings. Derisive laughter by the dealer, the crowd
                            assisting. I offer four shillings. The dealer says, "I am a
                            ruined man, but no mattertake it along for eight." Then Hassim
                            elbows his way back to the scene of trouble and helps to complicate
                            matters. He curses the dealer in Arabic and says to me in a side whisper
                            that he has succeeded in buying the stick for seven shillings. I offer
                            five. To make a long story short, after using up $8 worth of time and
                            $52 worth of vocal energy, I buy the stick for six shillings, and when I
                            return to the boat the head  steward
                            exhibits one just like it which he bought for two.
                        This farcical "grand stand" play was repeated every
                            time we stopped to purchase some trifling specimen of native junk. One
                            of the best performances of the afternoon involved a mysterious trip up
                            a narrow alley and into a tumbledown house, where Hassim exhibited to us
                            four squalling infants, attended by many flies and richly encrusted with
                            the soil of their native land. Although all four of the children seemed
                            to be of about the same age, he assured us that they belonged to him,
                            and we, being unfamiliar with the customs of Egypt, were not prepared to
                            contradict him. He said it was customary for visitors to give a small
                            present to each of the children, or, better still, we could give the
                            money to him and he would hand it to them later.
                        We shall remember Hassim. He surrounded his cheap trickeries with such a
                            glamour of Oriental ceremony and played his part with such a terrific
                            show of earnestness that he made the afternoon wholly enjoyable. When we
                            arrived at the landing he and the driver had a verbal war, and then he
                            took me aside for another heart to heart talk.
                        "The driver is a child of evil," said he. "I
                            tremble with rage! He is demanding fifty piasters.  Do not pay him fifty. Give the money to me and I will say
                            to him, 'Take forty or nothing,!"
                        The driver's legal fare was twenty piasters. Finally we paid him
                            twenty-five. Everybody was satisfied. Then we paid Hassim for his
                            services and sent presents to his four simultaneous children, and the
                            last we saw of him he was making a bee-line for the bazaar to collect
                            his commissions.
                        The decorative tail piece to this chapter is my name in Arabic.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    IN LUXOR
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI
                        THE MOHAMMEDAN FLY AND OTHER CREATURES LIVING
                            ALONG THE NILE
                        
                            E
                            GYPTIAN civilisation is supposed to be stationary,
                            except in the larger cities. The fellahin scratch the rich alluvial soil
                            with the same kind of clumsy wooden plough that was used when Marc
                            Antony came down from Rome on a business trip and got all snarled up
                            with Cleopatra. They live in the same type of snug mud hutabout the size
                            of a lower berth. They lift the water from the Nile by exactly the same
                            wooden sweep that was in vogue when Cheops began work on the Pyramids.
                            It may be remarked, en passant, that the fellahin are
                            the farmers of Egypt. I might have said "farmers" in
                            the first place, but what is the use of spending a month in a place and
                            paying large hotel bills if one cannot pick up words of the fellahin
                            description to parade up and down in front of his friends and cause them
                            to feel ignorant and untravelled? The en passant,
                            which is tucked in so neatly above, I found in Paris. It means
                            "under your hat," or something like that.  It is impossible to translate these
                            French phrases without sacrificing some of the piquant significance of
                            the original. For instance, "string beans" can never
                            be haricots vert. They may look the same and taste the
                            same, but when they are both on the bill, me for the haricots vert every time.
                        To resume:The outlying districts of Egypt are supposed to be absolutely
                            nonprogressive. This is a mistake. While driving out from Assiut to
                            visit another cheerful group of tombs we came upon a large gang of
                            workmen engaged in improving the road. As soon as the carriage ahead of
                            ours struck the improved road it turned turtle, and for a moment the air
                            was full of jumping tourists. Our conveyance started over the improved
                            section, but mired down, so we got out and walked until we came to an
                            unimproved road, and then we jumped in and sped merrily on our way. I
                            stopped for several minutes to watch the men at work, and I was deeply
                            impressed by the fact that here in this heathen land, where they had no
                            normal schools or farmers' institutes to guide them, no
                            agricultural weeklies to beacon them out of the darkness, the simple
                            children of the Orient were "improving" the roads just
                            as I had seen them improved during my boyhood days in Indiana. In other
                            words, they were scooping dirt  out of the
                            ditch on either side and dumping it in tall, unsurmountable hillocks
                            right in the middle of the roadway. The most hydrocephalous township
                            supervisor in the whole Middle West could not have done a more imbecilic
                            job.
                        In Indiana every voter is required to "work the roads"
                            or pay a road tax. Of late years, under intelligent direction, the
                            highways have been vastly improved, but there was a time when
                            "working the roads" was a large joke. To avoid paying
                            the tax the farmer would have to go out with a team and do something to
                            a public highway. Usually he selected a road which he would not traverse
                            in going to town, and he would plough it up and
                            "scrape" it into hollows and leave it looking like a
                            sample of the Bad Lands of Montana. As soon as the tax was
                            "worked out" he discontinued the improvement. After
                            two or three days of "working," a fairly bad road
                            could be made altogether impassable. If I were a military commander and
                            had to execute a retreat and cut off any pursuit by a superior force I
                            would have a corps of flat-headed township supervisors bring up the rear
                            and "work" the roads.
                        It was in this same town of Assiut that we visited one of the greatest
                            bazaars in Egypt. We had heard about this bazaar every day since
                            landing. The 
                            
                                
                                    Working out his taxes and improving the roads
                                
                            
                             traveller who had been up the Nile and
                            who had come back to Cairo, sunbaked and full of the patronising airs of
                            the veteran, invariably said, "By the way, when you are in
                            Assiut you must see the bazaar. "He might as well have said,
                            "When you are in Washington be sure to take a look at the
                            Washington Monument."
                        "Bazaar" has a seductive, Far Eastern sound, the same
                            as "mosque." It is much luckier to shut your eyes and
                            think of a mosque than to actually see a deserted lime kiln with an
                            upturned sugar bowl on top of it. The same for
                            "bazaar," only it goes double. A bazaar is a cosey
                            corner gone wrong. If you will take the long corridor of an American
                            second-class hote, tear off the roof and substitute a canopy of tattered
                            rag carpets, cover the walls with the imitation merchandise of a five
                            and ten cent store, kick up a choking dust, turn loose twenty or thirty
                            ripe odours and then have one hundred and fifty coffee-coloured lunatics
                            all begin talking at the same time, you will have a rather tame
                            imitation of the genuine Oriental bazaar as made famous in song and
                            story. The crude articles sold in these bazaars, if displayed in the
                            windows of a department store in America, would attract no attention
                            whatever, but the tourist, as soon as he has had a touch  of the Egyptian sun, seems to become easy
                            and irresponsible, and he wants to bargain for everything in sight. It
                            is a kind of temporary mania, known as curiosis, and is closely allied
                            to the widely prevalent souveniria, or post card fever, which attacks
                            even the young and innocent.
                        The intelligent reader may have noticed that now and then I have referred
                            to the dust of Egypt. Egypt makes all the other dusty spots on earth
                            seem dank and waterlogged. We asked truthful Hassim, our guide at
                            Assiut, if there had been any rainfall lately. He said that about five
                            years ago there had been a light shower, and during one of the Ptolemy
                            administrations there had been a regular old drencher. The Ptolemy
                            family occupied the throne about two thousand years ago. At home, take
                            it in the dog days, if we have no rain for two weeks and the crick dries
                            up, all the local apostles of gloom and advance agents of adversity clot
                            themselves together in front of the Post Office and begin pronouncing
                            funeral orations over the corn crop. Fourteen days without rain and the
                            whole country is on the toboggan, headed straight for bankruptcy. Yet
                            here in Egypt, where they haven't experienced a really wet rain
                            for twenty centuries, the people go about cheerfully, and there is no
                            complaint regarding Providence.
                        
                        
                            
                                The whole country is on the toboggan
                            
                        
                        
                        But what an unsatisfactory hang-out for the weather shark! In Egypt the
                            oldest inhabitant never gets up in the morning and says,
                            "I'm satisfied we're going to have rain
                            to-day, because my rheumatiz bothered me all night." There is
                            no need of looking for rings around the moon. You never hear anyone say,
                            "It looks a little black in the north, but I think
                            it'll blow around, because the wind is in the wrong
                            direction." Every morning the sun rolls up in silvery splendour
                            and surveys the same old parched landscape, with the strip of irrigated
                            green, and after a leisurely and monotonous day sinks through a golden
                            glow into the far-stretching desert. No one is looking for rain or
                            hoping for it. When it comes it is regarded as a calamity. It washes
                            down the mud huts, collects in pools and makes breeding spots for
                            microbes and leaks through hotel roofs, so that tourists have to carry
                            umbrellas in going to the dining-room. In March of this year there was a
                            heavy rainfall around Assouan, extending as far north as Luxor, and when
                            we came along, a few weeks later, the natives were still bewailing the
                            visitation of Allah's wrath.
                        The extreme dryness of the air in Egypt causes the visiting microbe to
                            feel like an alien. It becomes enervated and discouraged, incapable of
                            initiating  any new and fashionable
                            epidemics. This same air, however, seems to have a tonic effect on the
                            flea. In no other clime is he so enterprising, so full of restless
                            energy, so given to unexpected achievements. During a dull season, if
                            there is a short supply of tourists, he associates with the natives. He
                            prefers the tourist, but come what may, he is never idle. The bacillus,
                            on the other hand, has circumscribed opportunities. Inasmuch as the
                            entire population of the country lives along the river one might suppose
                            that harmful germs would be bred and disseminated by the billion. Yet
                            both natives and visitors drink from the river with impunity.
                            "The sweet water of the Nile" it is called and even
                            the most apprehensive travellers learn to take it after putting in about
                            twenty drops of Scotch, so as to benumb the bacilli, if any should be
                            present. There is an explanation of the micro-organism's
                            failure to do very much harm in Egypt. If a bacillus living anywhere
                            along the Nile starts for a ramble on shore he is sunstruck, and falls
                            helpless in the sand. If he sticks to the water the monotony of travel
                            begins to wear upon him, and after about seven miles he dies of ennui.
                        
                        If Egypt is a happy hunting ground for the flea it is likewise a paradise
                            for the fly. If I had to be something in Egypt I should prefer to be a
                            Mohammedan  fly. This little creature,
                            which in most countries is hounded and persecuted and openly regarded as
                            a pest, is treated with consideration in Egypthumoured, petted,
                            indulged, actually spoiled. In the U. S. A. a fly is almost as unpopular
                            as the millionaire. 
                                
                                    In the U. S. A. the fly is almost as unpopular as a
                                        millionaire
                                
                             He is wary, fretful, and suspicious, because he knows that all
                            humanity is joined in a conspiracy to put him out of business. If he
                            strolls up to a pool of  water, temptingly
                            set forth in a white bowl, he finds himself a few minutes later writhing
                            in cramps and full of corrosive sublimate. He sees what appears to be a
                            tempting luncheon of sweets and when he starts in to serve himself he
                            discovers that he is caught and held by the treacherous
                            "tanglefoot" mixture. He sees a sign, "This
                            way to the dining-room," and after passing through a long
                            corridor he lands in a wire trap from which there is no escape. If he
                            alights on a bald head and trys to use it as a rink somebody strikes at
                            him and calls him names.
                        It is all different in Egypt. The greatest indignity that a Mohammedan
                            ever offers a fly is to give him a gentle shove and request him to move
                            on. It is contrary to the religious teachings to kill or even cripple
                            this diminutive household companion. The belief in the transmigration of
                            souls seems to prevail everywhere in the mystical East, and perhaps the
                            fly that follows and nags you all afternoon may harbour the spiritual
                            essence of a former head waiter or a bey or some other dignitary. When
                            the flies assemble in large numbers around the various apertures of a
                            baby's face, the child, obeying an instinct of self-defence,
                            tries to "spat" them and drive them away. But the
                            mother restrains the infant by holding its hands and the flies give
                            themselves over to  unmolested enjoyment.
                            The older children have learned their lesson and seldom make any effort
                            to brush away the flies which loiter all over their bright young
                            features. This is not a pleasant thing to talk about, but inasmuch as
                            the fly is omnipresent during a trip up the Nile and this friendly
                            understanding between the fly and the native is constantly under the
                            traveller's observation, a description of Egypt would be sadly
                            incomplete without a chapter on the fly.
                        Having been a privileged class for many generations, the flies are
                            impudent and familiar to a degree. When the white unbeliever, with no
                            conscientious scruples against murder, comes up the river, they swarm
                            about him and buzz into his ears, "Welcome to our
                            city." Then when he begins sparring with them and using
                            sulphurous language, they gather about him in augmented numbers and
                            dodge when he strikes and side step when he slaps himself and seem to
                            think that he is trying to teach them some new kind of a
                            "tag" game. The Mohammedan fly cannot by any effort of
                            the imagination bring himself to believe that a human being would
                            wilfully injure him. This feeling of overconfidence in mankind breeds
                            carelessness, and during the open season for tourists many of them are
                            laid low. Mr. Peasley said that if there was anything in the
                            transmigration  theory, he figured that he
                            had massacred a regiment of soldiers, several boards of directors, a
                            high school and an insane asylum. The mortalities during the tourist
                            season do not seem to lower the visible supply or in any way discourage
                            the surviving millions.
                        When we started up the river a peddler came to the boat and offered us
                            some small fly brooms. They are very much like the brush used by the
                            apprentice in a blacksmith shop to protect the horse that is being shod.
                            The brush part is made of split palm leaves or horsehair and the handle
                            is decorated with beadwork. The idea of a person sitting about and
                            whisking himself with this ornamental duster struck us as being most
                            unusual, not to say idiotic. Before we travelled far up the Nile we had
                            joined the grand army of whiskers. The fly broom is essential. It is
                            needed every eight seconds. At Luxor we went out to see a gymkhana under
                            the auspices of the Luxor Sporting Club and every one of the two hundred
                            spectators sat there wearily slapping himself about the head with the
                            tufted fly brush while looking at the races.
                        The Luxor Sporting Club is not as dangerous as it sounds. The presiding
                            judge of the races was a minister of the gospel and the receipts were
                            given  to local charities. A gymkhana is
                            the last resort of a colony shut off from the metropolitan forms of
                            amusement, and yet it can be made the source of much hilarious fun.
                            Nothing could have been more frivolous than the programme at Luxor, and
                            yet the British spectators seldom gave way to mirth. Doubtless they were
                            laughing inwardly. Several ponderous committees had charge of the
                            arrangements and attended to them with due solemnity.
                        First there was a race between native water-carriers, distance about
                            three hundred yards, and each contestant carrying a goat skin filled
                            with water. Then there was a donkey boys' race, each rider
                            being required to ride backward. This enabled him to encourage his mount
                            by twisting the tail. In the donkey race for ladies several of the
                            contestants fell off gracefully and were carried to the refreshment
                            booth, where they revived on tea. The "affinity race"
                            was an interesting feature. The contestants rode their donkeys in pairs,
                            a gentleman and a lady holding a long ribbon between them. They were
                            required to gallop about two hundred yards, turn a post, and return to
                            the starting point without letting go of the ribbon. By far the most
                            exciting features of the programme were the camel and buffalo races.
                            These animals have associated with the hysterical  natives so long that they have lost all of their natural
                            horse sense and are quite daft and irresponsible. At the word
                            "Go!" instead of running down the course, they would
                            snort madly and start off in all directions. If any of them finished
                            under the wire it was by mere chance and not because of any guiding
                            intelligence. One demented water buffalo turned and ran at right angles
                            to the course. The last we saw of him he was disappearing over a hill
                            toward the setting sun, with the native jockey riding on all parts of
                            the upper deck, from the horns back to the tail.
                        The gymkhana is intended to provide an afternoon of undiluted nonsense,
                            and for the benefit of those who find reason tottering on her throne and
                            who don't care what they do as long as they enjoy themselves, I
                            shall append a few sample competitions from an Egyptian programme and
                            suggest that they be tried in America.
                        Bucket ContestCompetitors to gallop past three buckets, throwing a potato
                            into each bucket. Marks to be given for pace. Best of two runs.
                        Hat Trimming CompetitionGentleman to ride to lady with parcel containing
                            hat and trimmings. Lady to trim hat and gentleman to return to the
                            winning post wearing hat.
                        
                        Dak RaceCompetitors to drive at the trot about one-half mile, unharness
                            and saddle same pony and ride 200 yards, returning to the winning
                            post.
                        Housekeeping StakesGentleman on side saddle to ride to lady and give her
                            envelope containing an addition sum. Lady to open envelope, add up this
                            sum and return it to gentleman. First past the post with correct sum
                            wins.
                        Needle Threading CompetitionLady carries needle and thread 100 yards to
                            gentleman partner. He threads the needle and returns it to lady. First
                            past the post with needle properly threaded wins.
                        Egg Carrying Competition for LadiesEach lady carries an egg in an
                            ordinary teaspoon for a distance of about fifty yards. If egg is dropped
                            it must be recovered with the spoon and must not be touched with the
                            hands. First past the post with unbroken egg wins.
                        There are many other contests which tax the intellect in a similar
                            manner, but possibly the foregoing will be sufficient to provide a
                            fairly demoralising afternoon. Of course, in America it is impossible to
                            secure the real Levantine donkey. In Egypt the donkey takes the place of
                            the motor car, the trolley, the hansom, and the bicycle. In size he
                            ranges from an average goat to a full grown St. Bernard.  Ordinarily he is headstrong and hard to
                            manage, having no bridle wisdom whatever, but he is of tough fibre and
                            has a willing nature, and behind his mournful countenance there always
                            seems to be lurking a crafty and elusive sense of humour. The names are
                            marvellous. At the various stops on our way up the Nile I became
                            personally acquainted with Rameses the Great, Rameses Telegraph, Rameses
                            Telephone, Jim Corbett, Whiskey Straight, Lovely Sweet, Roosevelt,
                            Sleeping Car, Lydia Pinkham, and others equally appropriate which I
                            cannot now recall.
                        As I have indicated above, our wanderings have carried us as far as
                            Luxor. Luxor (the ancient Thebes) is the superlative of all that is old
                            and amazing in Egypt and therefore it calls for at least one separate
                            chapter.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII
                        IN AND AROUND LUXOR, WITH A SIDE LIGHT ON RAMESES
                            THE GREAT
                        
                            U
                            NTIL we arrived at Luxor we did not know the total
                            meaning of the word "old." The ruins, which are the
                            stock in trade of this ancient City of Thebes, date so far back into the
                            dimness of Nowhere that all the other antiquities of earth seem as fresh
                            and recent as a morning newspaper.
                        "Old" is merely a relative term, after all. I remember
                            in my native town we small boys used to gaze in reverent awe at a court
                            house that was actually built before the Civil War. We would look up at
                            that weather-beaten frame structure, two stories high, with a square
                            bird cage on top of it, and to us it had all the historic interest of a
                            medival castle. Later, in Chicago, when the special writer on the
                            newspaper ran short of topics he would dish up an illustrated story on
                            the oldest building in town. It was constructed away back in 1833.
                        When a man from the West goes East for the first time and sees
                            Independence Hall in Philadelphia, he 
                            takes off his hat and tries to grasp the overwhelming fact that the
                            building stood there even in the far distant Colonial period. When he
                            travels to London and walks through St. Paul's or stands in the
                            Henry VII. Chapel at Westminster he begins to get a new line on the
                            meaning of "old." Later he sees the Forum at Rome and
                            declares to himself:"At last I have found something really
                            ancient."
                        But when he arrives at Luxor and rambles among the elephantine ruins and
                            sits in the deep cool shade of temples that had been standing a good
                            many centuries before anyone thought of laying out the Forum in Rome he
                            will begin to understand how everything else in the world is
                            comparatively hot from the griddle. One day we were in the shop of
                            Mouhammed Mouhassib, in Luxor, and the old antiquarian reached under the
                            counter and lugged out a mummy. The body was well preserved, and the
                            embalming cloth in which it was wrapped and cross-wrapped still retained
                            a definite texture.
                        "This mummy dates back beyond any of the dynasties of which we
                            have a record," said the dealer. "There were no
                            inscriptions on the mummy case, because when this gentleman lived it was
                            not the custom to inscribe the cocoon. You will observe, however, that
                            he was buried in a sitting posture, and 
                            we know that this manner of burial was discontinued about 6000 B.
                            C."
                        As we stood there gazing into the calm features of the unidentified
                            has-been and realised that he had been sitting in that easy attitude for
                            eight thousand years waiting for us to come along and be presented to
                            him, we began to get a faint inkling of what the word
                            "old" really means.
                        Goodness knows I am not going to attempt any detailed description of the
                            stupendous ruins which make Luxor the most interesting spot in Egypt.
                            Anyone who is going to describe Luxor needs a new box of adjectives
                            every few minutes, and, besides, to repeat over and over again that the
                            columns and cavernous sanctuaries at Karnak are
                            "gigantic," and "colossal," and
                            "huge," and so on, cannot bring the reader to any
                            actual conception of the barbaric massiveness of these ancient
                            structures.
                        The rulers who built the main temple of Karnak, a section at a time,
                            thought they were not doing themselves credit unless they piled up
                            columns about the size of the redwood trees in California and guarded
                            each entrance with statues as big as the Goddess of Liberty in New York
                            Harbour, and when they made a wall to enclose a courtyard, they put up
                            something to resemble a mountain range. The  ordinary 150 pound mortal edging his way through the corridors and
                            under the vast shadows of these overwhelming uplifts of masonry feels
                            about as large and as important as a gnat.
                        Everywhere about these temples there are uniformed guards whose duty it
                            is to protect the remains against the vandal and the relic hunter. The
                            guard follows a few feet behind you as you roam through the many acres
                            of toppling ruin. He is afraid that you will steal something. Inasmuch
                            as the smallest fragment of one of these huge statues, or obelisks,
                            would weigh probably six hundred pounds, we felt that he was not
                            justified in suspecting us. But he followed along and then, when we were
                            leaving, he calmly came forward and indicated that he was ready to take
                            a money insult. This move on his part was most characteristic of the
                            Egyptian attitude toward visitors in general. Every native expects to
                            get something out of a traveller for the simple reason that he needs the
                            money. Suppose that a suspicious character should arrive in an American
                            city and the chief of police sent out a detective to shadow him and see
                            that he did not blow open any safes or crawl into any second stories.
                            The detective, having followed the suspect all day, approaches him at
                            nightfall and says, "Look here; you have put  me to a lot of trouble. I have been on my
                            feet all day watching you for fear that you were going to commit a
                            burglary, and I think it is only right that you should pay me
                            something."
                        Every time we visited an antiquity these guards tagged at our heels,
                            watching us like hawks, and invariably they tried to hold us up for a
                            piece of silver before we departed. There is a Masonic understanding
                            among the natives that the tourist is to be fleeced. For instance,
                            although the copper coins are in common use among the natives, and in
                            the cheaper shops the prices are usually reckoned in milliemes, it is
                            almost impossible for a traveller to get any of these copper coins
                            because the natives want him to bestow his gratuities in piastres. A
                            millieme is worth one-half cent, and then the millieme is further
                            subdivided into fractional coins, some of which are about the size of
                            the mustard seed and worth about as much as a share of mining stock.
                        Egyptian money is very easily understood by Americans. The piastre is the
                            same as our five-cent piece or nickel. The silver five piastre piece
                            resembles our quarter and has the same value. The ten piastre piece is
                            the same as our half-dollar. The 100 piastre bill is worth five dollars.
                            Inasmuch as many of the prices sound large and important when  quoted in piastres, the dealers have
                            learned to demand English pounds sterling or American dollars. That is,
                            they name their first prices in sovereigns and dollars and then
                            gradually work down to piastres. I saw a native trying to sell a scarab
                            to a tourist. His first price was 7, equivalent to $35. After a
                            half-hour of haggling he had cut it to 7 piastres, or 35 cents, and the
                            deal was consummated.
                        The old city of Thebes was a huge and hustling metropolis, surrounded by
                            a high wall of a hundred gates, with countless regiments of soldiers
                            marching out to conquer distant lands and bring back slaves in little
                            batches of 80,000 or so. This was along about 2000 B.
                                C. The city began to lose some of its importance a few
                            centuries before the Christian era and dwindled in size until twenty
                            years ago it was a mere village of huts nestling in the shade of the
                            great temples. Then the tourist travel set in very heavily, and to-day
                            Luxor is a hustling city with large hotels and fancy shops and a general
                            air of prosperity. The magnificent temple of Luxor is in the very heart
                            of the new city. The rambling temple of Karnak is a short donkey ride to
                            the north, and across the river, some three miles to the west, there are
                            more temples and shattered statues  and
                            the wonderful tombs of the kings. In olden days there was a broad avenue
                            leading north to Karnak and thence west to the valley in the desert,
                            where the kings were buried, and this boulevard was guarded on either
                            side, for the entire distance, by huge recumbent Sphinxes carved out of
                            granite. Can you imagine a double row of gigantic figures crouched on
                            each side of the street and about twenty feet apart all the way up
                            Broadway to Central Park and then through the Park to Riverside Drive
                            and up the drive to the distant suburbs? If so, you will understand to
                            what an extent these old rulers "went in" for
                            sphinxes. Labour cost nothing and time did not count for anything and if
                            a king wished to build an avenue of sphinxes leading to his private
                            temple or tomb all he had to do was to give the word.
                        As soon as a king mounted the throne he began making his funeral
                            preparations, and ordered the entire staff of stone cutters to chisel
                            out hieroglyphs explaining that he was great and good and just, and that
                            he never took off his hat to anyone except the gods, and then not
                            ordinary picayune gods, but only those of the very first magnitude.
                            According to the hieroglyphs, every king that ruled in Egypt was as wise
                            as Solomon, as brilliant in military 
                            
                                
                                    In old Egypt, every king was his own press
                                        agent
                                
                            
                             strategy as Napoleon, and as hard on the
                            evildoer as our own beloved T. R.
                        This unanimous outpouring of eulogy is largely explained by the fact that
                            every memorial in honour of a ruler was erected and supervised by that
                            ruler himself. It's a fact! Of all the countless temples and
                            obelisks and godlike granite figures and festal tomb chambers remaining
                            in Egypt to testify to the majesty and splendour of the ancient
                            dynasties, every one was built under the personal supervision of the man
                            who gets all of the glory out of the inscriptions. The succeeding
                            generation never got up subscription lists to build monuments to
                            statesmen or military commanders. The dutiful and loving son never
                            ordered a memorial in honour of his illustrious father. He was too busy
                            carving his own biography on the sandstone and depicting himself as
                            pursuing the enemy or taking afternoon tea with haughty three-headed
                            gods.
                        In old Egypt every king was his own press agent. These rulers could have
                            written some great "personal recollections" for the
                            magazines, because they remembered all the incidents that brought them
                            to the centre of the stage with the calcium turned on, and wisely forgot
                            all details calculated to injure their standing with posterity.
                        
                        You take Rameses the Great. He is regarded as perhaps the king pin of all
                            the rulers during Egypt's long period of national splendour.
                            Have you ever heard anyone say a word in criticism of Rameses'
                            fiscal policy, his treatment of the rebate system, management of the
                            Senate, or his social relations with the dark emissaries that came up
                            from Nubia? No! Everyone has a good word for Rameses. The writers of
                            ancient history extol him, and the guide books print his name in big
                            black letters, and the travellers to Egypt gather about his
                            glass-covered coffin in the Ghizeh Museum at Cairo and try to trace
                            noble lineaments in the shrunken features. They sigh over his departure
                            and look down at him mournfully, with their hats in their hands, as if
                            they had lost him this spring, instead of 3164 years ago this spring.
                            They say:"Well, he certainly was a grand character and
                            it's too bad we haven't got some rulers of his calibre
                            nowadays."
                        It is not my desire to attack Rameses, but I feel it my duty to submit to
                            students of history and archologists a very interesting papyrus, which
                            came into my possession at Luxor. If this document is accepted as
                            authentic and the statements are believed, then it would appear that
                            Rameses was the champion advertiser of ancient times. If Rameses 
                            
                                
                                    They look down at him mournfully
                                
                            
                             were alive to-day he would own all the
                            bill-boards in America. He would take a full page in every Sunday paper
                            and have his picture on free calendars. He would give Lawson cards and
                            spades.
                        In all accepted records discovered up to this time Rameses has received
                            nothing but praise. Why? Because all the records were doctored by
                            Rameses himself. He was the great builder of Egypt and all over the
                            walls of every building that he erected he had his picture and tales of
                            his mighty achievements blazoned forth in bright colors like the row of
                            banners in front of a side show. Wherever in Egypt he could find a large
                            smooth-faced rock he would engage a member of the Royal Academy to sculp
                            something about Rameses, and he would always stand and look over the
                            sculptor's shoulder to make sure that the king didn't
                            get the worst of it. If the army of Rameses suffered a defeat at the
                            hands of the Hittites, did any mention of the fact find its way into the
                            inscriptions? Most assuredly not. Rameses had the hieroglyphs report
                            that he made a masterly manoeuvre in order to develop the strength of
                            the enemy and then retired to a new and more strategic position.
                        We cannot discover from the old inscriptions that any Egyptian army ever
                            suffered defeat,  and yet it has been
                            learned from other sources that now and then an invading army had the
                            whole native population running foot races up and down the Nile. 
                                
                                    To make sure the King didn't get the worst
                                        of it
                                
                             However, it was not considered good form for historians to
                            mention these painful incidents. The rate of mortality among those who
                            criticised the administration was exactly 100 per cent. It is because
                            all  of the familiar records are known to
                            have been under censorship that the papyrus discovered by me at Luxor
                            possesses a most startling interest.
                        As a cold matter of fact, I discovered this manuscript by proxy. That is,
                            I bought it from the man who said he had found it concealed in the
                            funeral vestments of a mummy uprooted near Thebes in the month of
                            February. I cannot give the name of this Egyptian for the reason that
                            all valuable antiquities discovered in Egypt are supposed to belong to
                            the government, and anyone concealing an art treasure or some document
                            of rare value may be severely punished. I can say this much, howeverthe
                            native from whom I bought the papyrus assured me that he was an
                            honourable and truthful guide, and he gave me his personal guarantee
                            that he had removed the document from the mummy's undergarment
                            with his own hands and had been waiting an opportunity to offer it to a
                            traveller who was really a connoisseur of antiquities
                            and a reverent student of ancient languages. All this he told me while
                            we were out on the desert together, and after looking apprehensively in
                            all directions to make sure that no human being was within three miles
                            of us, he pulled a tin cylinder from under his robe and carefully
                            removed from it the time-stained but still intact roll of papyrus. I
                            must  say that I never saw a more
                            convincing document. The hieroglyphs looked as Egyptian as anything
                            could be, and as soon as I saw them I had a burning curiosity to know
                            what message to future generations this poor mummy had been hugging in
                            his bosom through all these centuries. I asked regarding the mummy on
                            which the papyrus had been found and learned that the inscription on his
                            outer coffin indicated that he had been an officer assigned to the royal
                            palace of Rameses II., the type of courtier who must bend the supple
                            knee and wear the smiling face, at all times concealing his real opinion
                            of things in general.
                        The guarantee which accompanied the papyrus was so heartfelt and
                            altogether emphatic that I made the purchase. The price was large, but I
                            felt justified in paying it, for the native assured me that I could sell
                            it to the British Museum at any time for twice as much. I promised
                            faithfully that I would never mention his name in connection with the
                            deal, and this promise was easily kept, because he had a name that no
                            one could have remembered for two minutes.
                        For obvious reasons I did not show the document to my travelling
                            companions. I knew that if people heard of my discovery and got to
                            talking about it  I might not be permitted
                            to take it out of the country. When we arrived at Cairo I went to Mr.
                            Ralpi 
                                
                                    The original papyrus
                                
                             Blanchard, an American who is noted as an antiquarian,
                            Egyptologist, and mummy collector, and 
                            after a few cautious preliminaries told him that I had a document in
                            hieroglyphics of which I desired a translation. I begged him not to
                            inquire where or how I had obtained the papyrus. All I wanted him to do
                            was to tell me what the fool thing meant.
                        Blanchard was startled as soon as he looked at the document. I could see
                            that. He said he had deciphered a good many acres of hieroglyphics, but
                            this record was unique and the most interesting that had ever come under
                            his observation. He spent two days on the translation, so as to be
                            absolutely accurate regarding every fine point and get not only the cold
                            words but also the literary style and the real spirit of the original
                            communication.
                        Let the translation speak for itself. I must confess that when it was
                            completed I was overwhelmed. Not only had a flood of light been let in
                            upon a most important epoch, but there were also surprising revelations
                            as to the origin of valued words and phrases. Here is the
                            translation:
                        
                            Rimeses Second is a Smooth Citizen. His Foxy Scheme is to
                                bunko Posterity. His Soldiers go out and put up a hard Scrap and do
                                up the enemy and he hires a Stonecutter to give an Account of it on
                                a Granite Rock and hand all the Bouquets to Rameses. He is building
                                many Temples. The Architects draw
                            
                            the Plans. The Labourers do the Work. The Public foots the
                                Bill. Rameses and the Local Deities are the only ones who butt into
                                the Inscriptions. He has the future doped out as follows:Three
                                thousand years
                            
                                
                                    Translation of the Rameses papyrus
                                
                            
                            from now, when Cook's Tourists see my Pictures all
                                over the Shop, they will conclude that I must have been the real
                                Works and they will call me Rameses the Great.
                        
                        
                        This revelation in regard to the self-advertising proclivities of the
                            great monarch, coming, as it did, from one who had been intimately
                            associated with him, was so vastly important that Mr. Blanchard thought
                            it better to verify the translation. He took a copy of the document to
                            several eminent Egyptologists, and they agreed with him on every point.
                            They said there was no getting away from "scraps" and
                            "butt in" and "dope out" and other
                            characters which seemed to me to have somewhat of a modern flavour.
                        After a man has been universally respected for nearly three thousand two
                            hundred years it does seem a low down trick to show him up. And,
                            possibly, the anonymous writer was prejudiced because he had failed to
                            secure an appointment. Did. the papyrus really come from the bosom of
                            the mummy? Who knows? Sometimes it is the duty of the traveller to
                            record facts as they come under his observation and not to draw hasty
                            conclusions.
                        The documentary evidence is submitted herewithfirst a copy of the
                            original papyrus and then the translation, word for word and phrase by
                            phrase. The testimony should convince any who are disposed to be
                            sceptical. My only hope is that it will not entirely blast the
                            reputation of Rameses.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII
                        THE ORDINARY HUMAN FAILINGS OF THE ANCIENT
                            MOGULS
                        
                            T
                            AKEN by themselves, as mere mouldering chunks of
                            antiquity that have been preserved to us because they happened to be
                            dropped down in a dry climate, the fragmentary remains of old Egypt are
                            not very inspiring. They were big, but seldom beautiful. As records
                            proving that humanityold-fashioned, unreliable humanity, with its fears,
                            jealousies, hatreds, and aching ambitionsis just about the same as it
                            was five thousand years ago, the temples and the decorated tombs seem to
                            bring us direct and heartfelt messages from our brethren of the long
                            ago.
                        For instance, from the beginning of time probably the most maddening and
                            unbearable persecution that can be visited upon a sensitive human being
                            is to have some other human being always held up before him as a shining
                            moral example.
                        Do you recall, O male reader, how you writhed in humiliation and laid
                            plans for assault and battery when the good little Rollo of your native
                            town was  constantly dangled before your
                            depraved soul as the paragon of juvenile virtues? "Rollo never
                            smokes corn silk." "Rollo never puts tick-tacks on
                            teacher's bedroom window." "Rollo never
                            carries craw dabbers 
                                
                                    The paragon of juvenile virtues
                                
                             in his Sunday clothes." "Rollo never runs
                            away to go swimming and then comes back with his ears full of
                            gravel."
                        No, indeed, Rollo never showed any of the traits  that have been the essence of boyhood since Adam and Eve
                            started the original brood. And do you remember how bright and sunshiny
                            that day seemed when Rollo, having grown to pale and sidewhiskered
                            manhood, was arrested for stealing money from the Building and Loan
                            Association?
                        Take the story of Queen Hatasoo. She was the Victoria of the eighteenth
                            dynasty, and was on the throne just about 1500 B. C. The lineal male
                            descendant of that period had a blot on the 'scutcheon or a bar
                            sinister across his pedigree or something wrong with his registry
                            certificateanyway, he could not qualify as king, and so his sister
                            Hatasoo was made ruler and he was permitted to hang around the palace as
                            a kind of shawl holder and cab opener. He led the cotillons and attended
                            public dinners and wore decorations, but Hatasoo ran Egypt and Thutmes
                            Second was merely a trailer. When he dropped off there did not seem to
                            be any considerable vacancy in court circles. Queen Hatasoo continued as
                            chief monarch, although her step-nephew, Thutmes Third, carried the
                            honourary title of co-regent. Hatasoo was energetic and ambitious. She
                            put nephew into a remote back seat and ran things to suit herself,
                            waging wars, building temples, and organising expeditions to far distant
                            lands. Also, according to ancient  custom,
                            she had her portrait and the record of her accomplishments carved on the
                            obelisks and painted all over the walls of her private temple, which is
                            still standing, about three miles west of the present city of Luxor.
                        She reigned for thirty-five years, and then Thutmes Third, gray bearded
                            and worn with much waiting, emerged from the nursery and took up the
                            reins of government. According to the judgment of later historians, his
                            reign was about the most glorious in the whole history of Egypt. He was
                            possessed of military genius, and under his direction Syria was
                            recaptured, and the influence of Egypt was firmly established in Western
                            Asia. But no matter how many battles he won or how many captives he
                            brought back to Thebes to exhibit in the courthouse square, the
                            old-timers around the court wagged their heads and said, "Yes,
                            he's doing fairly well for a beginner, but he'll never
                            come up to the mark set by his Aunt Hattie." Hatasoo was her
                            full name, but those who had known her for a long time called her
                            "Hattie," and to a few of her intimates she was known
                            as "Hat."
                        Thutmes was merely human. For years his domineering aunt had kept him out
                            of the running, and now that he was on the throne the glory of her  achievements was constantly being dinged
                            into him. Every time he rode out in his chariot, standing up and sawing
                            away at four horses, just as they do 
                                
                                    "He'll never come up to the mark
                                        set by his aunt Hattie"
                                
                             in Ringling's circus at the present time, he saw her
                            name and picture on all the public buildings, and, of course, two or
                            three years after her departure, everybody bragged about her a good deal
                            harder than they had while she was alive. Even the English newspapers
                                 speak in kindly terms of an American
                            statesman who is safely deceased.
                        Thutmes stood it as long as he could, and then he broke over. He ordered
                            the stonecutters to go forth and gouge out all the inscriptions relating
                            to his superior aunt. The temple which she had built as a special
                            memorial he appropriated to himself, and put his name over the main
                            entrance. It may have been pretty spiteful, but the whole proceeding
                            somehow seems to establish a sympathetic link between those remote
                            heathen days and the unselfish Utopian civilisation that we now enjoy in
                            Chicago, Omaha, West Superior, and other centres of brotherly love.
                        After Thutmes had put in years erasing and chiselling out all
                            complimentary references to Hatasoo, he passed away and was carried to a
                            winding subterranean tomb in the valley to the west. For two hundred
                            years the great monuments which he had erected in his own honour, or
                            quietly borrowed from his aunt, remained intact. Then along came Rameses
                            Second, to whom we have already referred as the best little advertiser
                            of ancient times. He had the name of Thutmes removed from all the
                            temples, obelisks, and public buildings, and put his own glaring label
                            on everything in sight. In the language of Mr. Peasley, the Kings seemed
                            to spend most of their  time in
                            "knocking their predecessors" and
                            "boosting" themselves.
                        Nearly every ancient structure has been defaced  or altered to gratify a private jealousy or
                            some prejudice founded on religious belief. The Romans  tried to obliterate the old Egyptian
                            deities. The early Christians hacked away at anything that failed to
                            strike them as being orthodox. Then the Turks capped the climax by
                            coming in and burning everything non-Mohammedan that was at all
                            combustible. A few ancient records remain because they are carved in
                            huge characters on very hard stone. The theologians wanted to batter
                            them down, but it would have meant a lot of hard work and they had been
                            leading sedentary lives. So they merely crisscrossed them and wrote the
                            equivalent for "Rats" underneath, and let it go at
                            that.
                        Even the modern circus bill is not more exuberant and given to joyful
                            hyperbole than the inscriptions and paintings of the Egyptian temples. A
                            few of them are reproduced herewith. Take No. 1, for example. This
                            represents our old friend Rameses the Great in the act of overcoming his
                            enemies. It was designed by Rameses himself. Now we know where Kaiser
                            Wilhelm got all of his tips.
                        Some warriors are content with overcoming one man at a time, but Rameses
                            is seen holding ten of them by the hair, getting ready to clout them
                            into insensibility. The picture is an artistic success, but is somewhat
                            shy anatomically. The ten enemies have a total of only three legs for
                            the whole crowd. They  are better supplied
                            with arms, the total being thirteen, or about one and one-third to the
                            man. Notice also the relative size of Rameses and his foes. There
                                
                                
                                    Where Kaiser Wilhelm got all his tips
                                
                             we have the real, unchanging spirit of autobiographythe great
                            I triumphant and the petty antagonists all coming about knee high to
                            him.
                        No. 2 is also very characteristic. One of the kings is represented as
                            defeating two burly warriors. He is walking on one and pushing his spear
                            through the other. Undoubtedly a glorious achievement. It would  be still more glorious if the two
                            gentlemen putting up the fight against the King had carried weapons of
                            some sort. The one on the ground, who is lifting his hands in mild
                            protest against being used as a rug, has nothing on his person to
                            indicate that he is a soldier. The one who is being harpooned carries in
                            his left hand what appears to be a box of handkerchiefs. The raised
                            right arm would suggest that he attempted to slap the King, who caught
                            him by the arm and held him until he could select a good vital spot in
                            which to prong him. Attention is called to the fact that both of the
                            victims wear the long and protuberant chin whisker, which would indicate
                            that the honest farmer was getting the worst of it even four thousand
                            years ago.
                        The carvings and paintings which do not depict warlike scenes usually
                            show the monarchs receiving homage from terrified subjects or else
                            mingling on terms of equality with the principal deities of the period.
                            Illustration No. 3 is a very good specimen. King Amenophis and his wife
                            are seen seated on their square-built Roycroft thrones, while two head
                            priests of Ammon burn incense before them and sing their praises and
                            tell them that the people are with the administration, no matter how the
                            Senate may carry on. There was no race prejudice in those days.  The Queen is shown to be a coal-black
                            Nubian. In one hand she carries what seems to be a fly brush of the very
                            kind that we used all the time we were up the Nile, and if the article
                            in her other hand is not a cocktail glass then the artist has wilfully
                            libelled her.
                        No. 4 is interesting as a fashion plate. Ptolemeus and Cleopatra are
                            making offers to the hawk-headed god and the goddess Hathor. This
                            picture will appeal to women inasmuch as it gives us a correct likeness
                            of Cleopatra, the man trapper. No one can dispute the fact that she is
                            beautiful, but how about the combination of an Empress gown with a habit
                            back? Is it not a trifle daring? And the hat. Would you call it
                            altogether subdued?
                        Another well-preserved painting to be found in the temple at Edfou
                            reveals the innate modesty of the Ptolemies. The King (No. 5) is
                            represented as being crowned by the goddesses of the south and the
                            norththat is, of Upper and Lower Egypt. These divinities seem to be
                            overcome with admiration of the athletic monarch. One has her hand
                            resting on his shoulder, as if she hated to see him go. The other,
                            having just fitted him with his new gourd-shaped hat, has both hands in
                            the air, and you can almost hear her say, "Oh, my! It looks
                            just fine!"
                        
                        Seti I. was another shrinking violet. In one of his
                            private three-sheet advertisements (No. 6) he has the sublime effrontery
                            to represent the great goddess Hathor as holding his hand tenderly and
                            offering him the jewelled collar which she is wearing. Notice the
                            uplifted hand. He is supposed to be saying, "This is all very
                            sudden, and besides, would it be proper for me to accept jewelry from
                            one of your sex?" Of course, there never was any Hathor, and if
                            there had been she wouldn't have hob-nobbed with a man who had
                            his private interviews done into oil paintings. But this painting and
                            one thousand others that we have seen in Egypt help to give us a line on
                            the ancient Kings. If there was any one of them that failed to get the
                            swelled head soon after mounting the throne, the hieroglyphs are
                            strangely silent regarding his case. They were a vain, self-laudatory
                            lot, and all of them had that craving for the centre of the stage and
                            the hot glare of the spot-light which is still to be found in isolated
                            cases.
                        After all is said and done can we blame them? Rameses wanted to be
                            remembered and talked about and he laid his plans accordingly. He carved
                            the record of his long and successful reign on the unyielding granite
                            and distributed his pictures with the careful prodigality of a footlight
                            favourite. What  has been the result? His
                            name is a household joke all over the world. People who never heard of
                            Professor Harry Thurston Peck or Marie Corelli or the present Khedive of
                            Egypt know all about Rameses the Great, although no two of them
                            pronounce it the same.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX
                        ROYAL TOMBS AND OTHER PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
                        
                            O
                            NE morning we rode across the Nile from Luxor in a
                            broad and buxom sailboat, climbed on our donkeys, and rode to the west.
                            We followed the narrow road through the fresh fields of wheat and
                            alfalfa until we struck the desert, and then we took to a dusty trail
                            which leads to a winding valley, where the kings of the eighteenth,
                            nineteenth, and twentieth dynasties are being dug up.
                        This narrow valley, with the steep hills rising on either side, is the
                            sure-enough utterness of desolation; not a tree, not a shrub, not a
                            blade of grass, not even a stingy little cactus. No wonder the old kings
                            picked out this valley for a cemetery. Life has no charm in this dreary
                            region. Eternal sleep would seem to offer peculiar advantages. After
                            winding through the sun-baked gravel for about a mile we came to a
                            settlement of houses and a high fence 
                            thrown across the roadway. Also there was an electric light plant
                            buzzing away merrily. The tombs of the kings are now strung with
                            incandescent lights. Can you beat that for sacrilegious enterprise?
                        There are forty-one of these royal tombs that have been discovered and
                            opened to date. The less important are not lighted, and are mere tunnels
                            leading back to one or two bare chambers. Those really worth visiting
                            are dug far back into the hills. The halls are spacious and brilliantly
                            decorated, and before you get through exploring one of them you think
                            that you are pretty well down toward the centre of the earth.
                        Mr. Peasley had read up on the Tomb of Amenhotep Third and when we
                            entered it he pushed the regular guide out of the way and gave us one of
                            his own vivid lectures. The native guide lacks imagination. His idea of
                            showing the traveller a frolicksome time is to point out a lot of
                            paintings in which the deceased is seen travelling across the Nile in a
                            funeral barge. Mr. Peasley, on the other hand, gave us an insight into
                            the character of the wily Amenhotep.
                        "Now, look at the entrance to this tomb," he said, as
                            we started down the new wooden steps. "It looks as if someone
                            had been blasting for limestone. The 
                            walls are rough and unfinished. Old Amenhotep figured that if anyone
                            ever came across the opening to the tomb he would size up this ordinary
                            hole in the ground and conclude that it was either a cave used 
                                
                                    "Now look at the entrance to this
                                        tomb," he said
                                
                             as a storehouse or the last resting place of some cheap
                            two-dollar official."
                        After descending some twenty feet we came to a small chamber which was
                            rudely frescoed about half of the way around.
                        "Do you know why he left this job unfinished?"  asked Mr. Peasley. "He knew that
                            some day or other an inquisitive foreigner would be prowling around here
                            trying to uncover ancient treasures, and he put this measly little
                            antechamber here to throw Mr. Archologist off the scent. He wanted it to
                            appear that the man who was buried here had been so poor that he
                            couldn't complete the decorations. And now I'll show
                            you something more foxy still. Come with me down this long flight of
                            steps to the second chamber."
                        He led us down another flight to a tall chamber about the size of a
                            freight car stood on end.
                        "When the French explorers opened this place in 1898 the chamber
                            which you are now inspecting seemed to be the end of the
                            tunnel," continued Mr. Peasley. "The four side walls
                            were perfectly smooth and unbroken, but down at the bottom they found a
                            pit which had been filled with heavy stones. They supposed, of course,
                            that this was the mummy pit, and that if they removed the stones they
                            would find some royal remains at the other end of the hole. So they
                            worked day after day, lifting out the boulders, and finally they came to
                            the end of the pit and found that they had drawn a blank. Naturally they
                            were stumped. They thought they had been exploring a tomb, but it was
                            only an April fool joke. One  of the
                            professors was not satisfied. He felt sure that there must be a royal
                            mummy tucked in somewhere about the premises, so he took a ladder and
                            climbed around and began tapping all over the walls of this second
                            chamber. What do you think? He discovered that the wall had a hollow
                            sound just opposite the tunnel at which they had entered. So he used a
                            battering ram and broke through into the real tomb. Yes, sir; these two
                            outer chambers, with their cheap stencil frescoes and fake mummy pit,
                            had been a blind."
                        We passed over a narrow wooden bridge and entered the tunnel beyond the
                            second chamber. The whole place was brightly illuminated and one could
                            readily believe that he was in a modern hallway decorated in the most
                            gorgeous Egyptian style. The bordering frescoes and the historical
                            paintings were as fresh in tone as if they had been put on only
                            yesterday. One of the larger chambers looked exactly like the gaudy
                            "Oriental apartment" of a Paris or New York hotel, and
                            we shouldn't have been surprised or displeased to see a waiter
                            come in with a tray full of cool drinks.
                        At last we came to the tomb chamber, and there in a deep hollow, with a
                            modern wooden railing around it, reclined the great King Amenhotep, with
                            the incandescent  lamps dangling above him
                            and flooding him in a radiant light. The original granite cover of the
                            outer case has been removed and plate glass substituted. We leaned on
                            the rail and gazed down at the serene countenance of the once mighty
                            monarch who had been lying there for 3300 years. The funeral garlands
                            which had been laid on his breast were still undisturbed, and the
                            shrunken face was illumined by that calm smile of triumph which
                            Amenhotep wore when he passed away confident in the belief that the Nile
                            tourist would never discover his hiding place.
                        We visited the tomb in company with a bustling swarm of American
                            excursionists of the happy, irreverent kind. The fact that they were
                            strolling about in a private and highly aristocratic sarcophagus did not
                            seem to repress their natural gush of spirits or induce any solemn
                            reflections. They were all steaming hot, but very happy and having a lot
                            of fun with the King. One enterprising Yankee, who carried his coat and
                            vest on his arm, started to climb over the wooden railing in order to
                            make a close inspection of the mortuary remains, but was restrained by
                            the guards.
                        After leaving the valley of tombs we made a short cut over a very hot and
                            a very high hill to the "rest 
                            house" which has been erected far out on the desert by one of
                            the tourist agencies. We collapsed on the shady side of the building,
                            dusty and short of breath, and immediately we were attacked by a most
                            vociferous horde of native peddlers. And what do you suppose they were
                            selling? We landed there on Friday, and the remnant sale of mummies was
                            in full blast. Here are some of the cut prices:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Head of adult
                                
                                4 shillings.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Foot of adult
                                
                                1 shilling.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Hand of adult
                                
                                1 shilling.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Two feet and two hands (warranted mates)
                                
                                3 shillings.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Arm and head
                                
                                6 shillings.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    Special reduction for juvenile sizes.
                                
                                
                            
                        
                        Can you imagine anything more disquieting to the nerves, when you are
                            resting and getting ready for luncheon, than to have a villainous child
                            of the desert rush up and lay a petrified human head in your lap and beg
                            you to make an offer? Within two minutes after we arrived we had
                            fragments of former humanity stacked all around us. And they were
                            unmistakably genuine. The native swindlers can make imitation scarabs
                            and potteries, or else import them  by the
                            gross from Germany and Connecticut, but the mummy heads which they offer
                            for sale are horribly bona fide. It would not pay to manufacture an
                            imitation article, inasmuch as the whole desert region 
                                
                                    For the love ones at home
                                
                             to the west of ancient Thebes is a vast cemetery. If the
                            merchant's stock runs low he can go out with a spade and dig up
                            a new supply, just as a farmer would go after artichokes.
                        
                        Our guide co-operated with the ghouls. He rushed about hunting up strange
                            and grisly specimens and brought them to us and begged us to examine
                            them and then pick out a few for the loved ones at home. I regret to say
                            that we did purchase a few of these preserved extremities. The guide
                            said we could use them as paper weights.
                        This same dragoman, or guide, or highbinder, or whatever you may choose
                            to call himand Mr. Peasley called him nearly everythinggave us a lot of
                            cheerful entertainment during our four days in Luxor. Mr. Peasley was in
                            hot pursuit of guaranteed antiquities. He said he had an old bookcase at
                            home which he was going to convert into a curio cabinet. There is one
                            dealer in Luxor who is said to be absolutely trustworthy. He supplies
                            museums and private collections throughout the world, and if you buy a
                            scarab or a carved image from him you know that you have something
                            genuine and worth keeping. Mr. Peasley in a thoughtless moment requested
                            the dragoman to conduct us to this shop. We went in and burrowed through
                            the heaps of tempting rubbish and began to dicker for a job lot of
                            little images, tear jars, amulets, etc., that are found in the mummy
                            cases. That dragoman saw the covetous gleam in the Peasley eye and he
                            knew that the man from Iowa intended 
                            loading up with antiques, and he also knew that Mr. Peasley wished to do
                            this purchasing single-handed and without the assistance of a dragoman,
                            who would come in for a ten per cent. commission. We told the dealer we
                            would drop around later. So we went to the hotel and dismissed the
                            dragomantold him to go home and get a good night's rest and be
                            on hand at nine o'clock the next morning.
                        After we were safely in the hotel Mr. Peasley confided his plans to
                            us.
                        "I don't want to buy the stuff while that infernal
                            Mahmoud is along," he said. "Why should he get a
                            rake-off? We didn't go to the shop on his recommendation. Now,
                            I'll go over there by myself, pick out what I want, and strike
                            a bargain."
                        We offered to go along and assist, so we started up a side street, and
                            after we had gone a block Mahmoud stepped out from a doorway and said,
                            "Come, I will show you the way." We told him we had
                            just sauntered out for a breath of air, so we walked aimlessly around a
                            block and were escorted back to the hotel.
                        "I'll go over the first thing in the morning,"
                            said Mr. Peasley. "I'll be there at eight
                            o'clock, because he isn't due here until
                            nine."
                        When he arrived at the shop early next morning  Mahmoud was standing in the doorway wearing a grin of
                            devilish triumph. Mr. Peasley kept on walking and pretending not to see
                            him, but he came back to the hotel mad all the way through.
                        "We're up against an Oriental mind-reader, but
                            I'll fool him yet," he declared. "When we
                            come 
                                
                                    Mahmoudwearing a grin of devilish triumph
                                
                             back to the hotel for luncheon and he is waiting for us with
                            the donkey boys on the east side of the hotel we will go out the west
                            door to the river bank and cut  south
                            around the Presbyterian Mission and come back to the shop."
                        Mr. Peasley did not know that Mahmoud had organised all the hotel
                            servants into a private detective agency. He must have known of our
                            escape on the river side before we had gone a hundred feet from the
                            hotel, for when, after executing our brilliant flank movement, we
                            arrived at the shop of the antiquarian, Mahmoud and the proprietor were
                            sitting in the front room drinking Turkish coffee and waiting for the
                            prey to wander into the trap. Mahmoud did not seem surprised to see us.
                            He bade us welcome and said that his friend the dealer was an
                            Egyptologist whose guarantee was accepted by every museum in the world,
                            and if we were in the market for antiques he would earnestly advise us
                            to seek no further. After this evidence of a close and friendly
                            understanding between the dragoman and the dealer we had a feeling that
                            Mahmoud would get his ten per cent, even if we succeeded in eluding him
                            and buying on our own hook.
                        But we hated to acknowledge ourselves beaten. At dusk that evening we
                            started toward the shop, in a half-hearted and experimental spirit, and
                            presently we observed Mahmoud following along fifty feet behind us. We
                            went to the garden of a neighbouring 
                            hotel and sat there until eleven o'clock. When we came out
                            Mahmoud was at the gateway. He said it was not always safe for
                            travellers to be about the streets at night, so he would protect us and
                            show us the way back to our hotel.
                        We found it impossible to get away from him. No Siberian bloodhound ever
                            followed a convict's trail more closely. If we ventured forth,
                            early or late, we found ourselves shadowed by that smiling reprobate.
                            When it came to the last day in Luxor Mr. Peasley did the bold thing. He
                            permitted Mahmoud to escort him to the shop, and then he said to the
                            dealer:"This man is our guide, but he is not entitled to any
                            commission because he did not bring us to your shop. If he had
                            recommended your shop in the first place we would not have come here at
                            all. He is a bluff. He is trying to ring in. I want to buy a few things
                            here, with the understanding that he doesn't get anything out
                            of it. We have already paid him two salaries for guiding us and he
                            isn't a guide at allhe's a night
                            watchman."
                        The dealer vowed and protested that he never paid commissions to anyone.
                            Mahmoud, not at all ruffled by the attack on his character, said that
                            his only ambition in life was to serve the noble gentleman from the
                            famous country known as Iowa. So Mr. 
                            Peasley bought his assortment of antiques, and Mahmoud looked on and
                            then carried the parcel back to the hotel, walking respectfully behind
                            the "noble gentleman."
                        "Well, I blew myself," reported Mr. Peasley.
                            "And I'll bet a thousand dollars that Mahmoud gets his
                            ten per cent."
                        Whereupon Mahmoud smiledthe pensive, patronising smile of a civilisation
                            five thousand years old looking down on the aboriginal product of the
                            Western prairies.
                        On the morning of our departure from Luxor Mahmoud came around for his
                            letter of recommendation. I had worked for an hour to write something
                            evasive which would satisfy him and not perjure me too deeply. When he
                            came to the hotel I gave him the following:
                        To Whom It May Concern:The bearer, Mahmoud, has been our dragoman for
                            four days and has attended us faithfully at all hours; also, he has
                            shown us as many temples as we wished to see.
                        He looked at the paper blankly and said, "I do not read
                            English." At that Mr. Peasley brightened up. He read the
                            testimonial aloud to Mahmoud and declared that it was incomplete and
                            unworthy of the  subject matter. In ten
                            minutes he completed the following and the dragoman took it away with
                            him, highly pleased:
                        To Whom It May ConcernGreeting:The bearer, Mahmoud, is a dragoman of
                            monumental mendacity and commercial Machiavellism. His simulated efforts
                            to faithfully serve us and protect our interests have had an altogether
                            negative effect. Anyone employing him will find him possessed of moral
                            turpitude and a superlative consciousness of his own worth. His
                            knowledge of Egyptian history is enormously inconsequential, while his
                            English vocabulary is amazing in its variety of verbal catastrophes. We
                            commend him to travellers desirous of studying the native
                            characteristics of the most geological stratum of society.
                        "He has made a lot of trouble for us, and now we've got
                            even by ruining him," said Mr. Peasley.
                        It seemed a joke at the time, but later on, when we thought it over, we
                            felt sorry for Mahmoud and wished we had not taken such a mean advantage
                            of him. After all is said and done, a man must make a living.
                        On our way back to Cairo from Assouan we stopped over at Luxor. Mahmoud,
                            by intuition or through telepathy, knew that we were coming and  met us at the station. He was overjoyed
                            to see us again.
                        "I showed your letter to a gentleman from the Kingdom of
                            Ohio," said he, "and it procured for me one of the
                            best jobs I ever had."
                    
                
                
                
                    IN CAIRO
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX
                        MR. PEASLEY AND HIS FINAL SIZE-UP OF EGYPT
                        
                            O
                            N the morning of our hurried pack up and get away
                            from Luxor we lost Mr. Peasley. It was a half-hour before the sailing of
                            the boat, and we were attempting to lock trunks, call in the porters,
                            give directions as to forwarding mail, and tip everybody except the
                            proprietor all at the same time.
                        This excruciating crisis comes with every departure. The fear of missing
                            the boat, the lurking suspicion that several articles have been left in
                            lower drawers or under the sofa, the dread of overlooking some worthy
                            menial who is entitled to baksheesh, the uneasy conviction that the bill
                            contains several overchargesall these combine to produce a mental
                            condition about halfway between plain "rattles" and
                            female hysteria. And then, to add to the horror of the situation, Mr.
                            Peasley had disappeared.
                        All hands were neededone to boss the porters, another to round up the
                            tippees, another to audit the charges for "extras,"
                            another to make a final search  for razor
                            strops and hot water bags (of which we had left a trail from Chicago to
                            Cairo). Instead of attending to these really important duties we were
                            loping madly about the hotel looking for Peasley. We asked one another
                            why we had invited him to join the party. We called him all the names
                            that we had invented on the trip to fit his unusual personality. One of
                            these was a "flat-headed fush." I don't know
                            know what a "fush" is, but the more you study it and
                            repeat it over to yourself, the more horrible becomes the full
                            significance of the word. Also we called him a
                            "swozzie," which means a chump who has gone on and on,
                            exploring the furthermost regions of idiocy, until even his most daring
                            companions are left far behind. We called Mr. Peasley a
                            "wall-eyed spingo," the latter being a mullet that has
                            lost all sense of shame. Ordinary abuse and profanity became weak and
                            ineffective when pitted against words of this scathing nature.
                        Reader, if you have a life-long friend and you feel reasonably sure that
                            you never could quarrel with him or be out of patience with him or find
                            fault with any of his small peculiarities, go on a long trip with him in
                            foreign lands. You will be together so much of the time that finally
                            each will begin to hate the sight of the other. There will come off
                            days,  fraught with petty annoyances, when
                            each will have a fretful desire to hurl cameras and suit cases at his
                            beloved playmate. Suppose your lifelong friend has some little
                            eccentricity of manner or speech, some slight irregularity of behaviour
                            at the table, or a perverted 
                                
                                    You discover every one of his shining faults
                                
                             and stubborn conviction which reveals itself in every
                            controversy. You may have overlooked this defect for years because you
                            meet him only at intervals, but when you begin to camp with him you
                            discover every one of his shining faults. And how they  do get on your nerves! Next to matrimony,
                            perhaps travelling together is the most severe test of
                            compatibility.
                        We liked Mr. Peasley. Looking back over the trip, we can well believe
                            that the expedition would have been rather tame if deprived of his
                            cheering presence. But he was so full of initiative and so given to
                            discovering byways of adventure that he was always breaking in on the
                            programme and starting little excursions of his own. He was a very hard
                            man to mobilise. If we had solemnly agreed to get together for luncheon
                            at one o'clock, three of us would be waiting at the food garage
                            while Mr. Peasley would be a mile away, trying to buy a four-dollar
                            Abyssinian war shield for $2.75.
                        And where do you suppose he was on the morning we were making our
                            frenzied departure from Luxor? We found him in the barber shop, having
                            his hair cut. A native stood alongside of him, brushing away the flies.
                            The barber, a curly Italian, had ceased work when we came in, and,
                            encouraged by the questions of Mr. Peasley, was describing the Bay of
                            Naples, pointing out Capri, Sorrento, Vesuve, and other points of
                            interest, with a comb in one hand and a pair of scissors in the other.
                            This barber had made an indelible impression on Mr. Peasley, because of
                            his  name, which was Signor Mosquito. Mr.
                            Peasley said he didn't see how anyone with a name like that
                            could live.
                        We lined up in front of Mr. Peasley and gazed at him in withering
                            silence. He was not feazed.
                        "Talk about oriental luxury," he said. "Little
                            did I think twenty years ago, when I was measurin' 
                                
                                    He was not feazed
                                
                             unbleached muslin and drawin' New Orleans syrup in a
                            country store, that one day I'd recline on a spotted  ted divan and have a private vassal to
                            keep the flies off of me. To say nothing of bein' waited on by
                            Signor Mosquito."
                        I tried to hold down the safety valve of my wrath.
                        "We have just held a meeting and by unanimous vote we have
                            decided that you are an irresponsible fush, a night blooming swozzie,
                            and a vitrified spingo," I said.
                        "Thanks," he replied. "I'll do as
                            much for you sometime."
                        "Are you aware of the fact that the boat departs in twenty
                            minutes?" asked No. 2.
                        "The boat will not leave its mooring until Peasley, of Iowa, is
                            safely aboard," he replied. "Why is it that you
                            fellows begin to throw duck fits every time we have to catch a boat or
                            train? Kindly send my luggage aboard, and as soon as Signor Mosquito has
                            concluded his amputations, I shall join you."
                        Words failed us. We hurried to the boat, feeling reasonably certain that
                            he would follow us to Assouan by rail. When it came time to cast off,
                            Mr. Peasley had not appeared, and our irritation was gradually softening
                            into a deep joy. The warning whistle blew twice, and then Mr. Peasley
                            came down the bank, carrying a Nubian spear eight feet long over his
                            shoulder. By the time he had arrived on the  upper deck the gangplank was drawn and we were swinging in the
                            current.
                        He bestowed on us a cool smile of triumph, and then removed his hat. His
                            hair had been given a shellac finish and smelled like the front doorway
                            of a drug store.
                        "Signor Mosquito is well named," said Mr. Peasley.
                            "When he got through with me he stung me for fifteen
                            piastres."
                        For several hours we refused to speak to him or sit near him on deck, but
                            finally we needed him to fill out a four-handed game of dominoes and he
                            was taken back on probation. While we were engaged in a very stubborn
                            session of "double nines," we noticed that most of our
                            fellow passengers, and especially those of English persuasion, were
                            making our little group the target for horrified glances. Some of them
                            actually glared at us. We began to wonder if dominoes was regarded as an
                            immoral practice in Egypt.
                        "These people keep on looking at us as if we were a happy band
                            of burglars," said Mr. Peasley. "We think we are
                            travelling incog., but our reputation has preceded us."
                        Then we heard one old lady ask another if there would be any evening
                            services in the dining saloon,  and Mr.
                            Peasley, who was reaching into the "bone yard,"
                            suddenly paused with his hand up and exclaimed:"Sanctified
                            catfish! Boys, it's Sunday!"
                        
                            
                                "Boys, it's Sunday!"
                            
                        
                        It was. We had been sitting there among those nice people throughout the
                            calm Sabbath afternoon playing a wicked game of chance. After two weeks
                            among the Mohammedans and other heathen, with every day a working day
                            and the English Sunday a dead letter, we had lost all trace of dates.
                            Mr.  Peasley said that if anyone had asked
                            him the day of the week he would have guessed Wednesday.
                        This unfortunate incident helped to deepen and solidify the dark
                            suspicion with which we, as Americans, were regarded by the contingent
                            from Great Britain. If our conduct had been exemplary we could not have
                            cleared away this suspicion, but after the domino debauch we were set
                            down as hopeless. The middle class English guard their social status
                            very carefully, and you can't blame them. It is a tender and
                            uncertain growth that requires looking after all the time. If they
                            didn't water it and prune it and set it out in the sunshine
                            every day it would soon wither back to its original stalk.
                        Did you ever come across a bunch of melancholy pilgrims from the suburban
                            villas and the dull gray provincial towns of dear old England? Did you
                            ever observe the frightened manner in which they hold aloof from
                            Germans, Americans, Bedouins, Turks, and other foreigners? They fear
                            that if they drift into friendly relationship with people they meet
                            while travelling, later on some of these chance acquaintances may look
                            them up at Birmingham or Stoke-on-Trent and expect to be entertained at
                            the foundry.
                        A large majority of our fellow passengers from  Luxor to Assouan were of elderly pattern. We estimated the
                            average age to be about eighty-three. Mr. Peasley said an irreverent
                            thing about these venerable tourists.
                        "Why do these people come all the way to Egypt to look at the
                            ruins?" he asked. "Why don't they stay at
                            home and look at one another?"
                        We rebuked him for saying it, but somehow or other these rebukes never
                            seemed to have any permanent restraining effect.
                        Our boat arrived at Assouan one morning accompanied by a sand storm and a
                            cold wave. The Cataract Hotel stood on a promontory overlooking a new
                            kind of Nilea swift and narrow stream studded with gleaming boulders of
                            granite. We liked Assouan because the weather was ideal (after the sand
                            storm ran out of sand), the hotel was the best we had found in Egypt,
                            and there were so few antiques that sightseeing became a pleasure.
                            Besides, after one has been to Luxor, anything in the way of ancient
                            temples is about as much of a come-down as turkey hash the day after
                            Thanksgiving.
                        Here, on the border of Nubia, we began to get glimpses of real Africa. We
                            rode on camels to a desert camp of hilarious Bisharins. They are the
                            gypsies of Nubiadress their hair with mud instead  of bay rum and reside under a patch of gunnysack propped
                            up by two sticks. On the hills back of the town we saw the barracks
                            where the English army gathered itself to move south against the
                            Mahdists. We were invited to go out in the moonlight and hunt hyenas,
                            but did not think it right to kill off all the native game.
                        The big exhibit at Assouan, and one of the great engineering achievements
                            of modern times, is the dam across the Nile. It is a solid wall of
                            granite, a mile and a quarter long, 100 feet high in places and 88 feet
                            through the base, and it looks larger than it sounds. We went across it
                            on a push car after taking a boat ride in the reservoir basin, which is
                            said to contain 234,000,000 gallons of water. This estimate is correct,
                            as nearly as we could figure it. The dam is about four miles above the
                            town. We rode up on a dummy train, with cars almost as large as Saratoga
                            trunks, and came back in a small boat. We shot the rapids, just for
                            excitement, and after we had caved in the bottom of the boat and stopped
                            an hour for repairs we decided that we had stored up enough excitement,
                            so after that we followed the more placid waters.
                        The black boatmen had a weird chant, which they repeated over and over,
                            keeping time with the  stroke. It was a
                            combination of Egyptian melody and American college yell, and ran as
                            follows:
                        Hep! Hep! Horay!
                        Hep! Hep! Horay!
                        Hep! Hep! Horay!
                        All right! Thank you!
                        This effort represented their sum total of English, and they were very
                            proud of it, and we liked it, toothat is, the first million times. After
                            that, the charm of novelty was largely dissipated.
                        Many people visit Assouan because of the kilndried atmosphere, which is
                            supposed to have a discouraging effect on rheumatism and other ailments
                            that flourish in a damp climate. Assouan is as dry as Pittsburg on
                            Sunday. It is surrounded by desert and the sun always seems to be
                            working overtime. The traveller who does much rambling out of doors
                            gradually assumes the brown and papery complexion of a royal mummy, his
                            lips become parched and flaky, and he feels like a grocery store
                            herring, which, it is believed, is about the driest thing on record.
                        We did love Assouan. Coming back from a camel ride, with a choppy sea on,
                            gazing through the heat waves at the tufted palms and the shimmering
                            white  walls, we would know that there was
                            ice only a mile ahead of us, and then our love for Assouan would become
                            too deep for words.
                        Burton Holmes, the eminent lecturer and travelogue specialist, was lying
                            up at Assouan, having a tiresome argument with the germ that invented
                            malaria. He had come up the Nile in a deep draught boat and had
                            succeeded in finding many sand bars that other voyagers had overlooked.
                            Just below Assouan the boat wedged itself into the mud and could not be
                            floated until thirty natives, summoned from the surrounding country, had
                            waded underneath and "boosted" all afternoon. When it
                            came time to pay the men the captain of the boat said to Mr. Holmes:
                            "What do you think? They demand eight shillings."
                        "It is an outrage," said Mr. Holmes. "Eight
                            shillings is two dollars. Even in America I can get union labour for two
                            dollars a day. There are thirty of them. Couldn't we compromise
                            for a lump sum of fifty dollars?"
                        "You do not understand," said the captain. "We
                            are asked to pay eight shillings for the whole crowd. I think that six
                            would be enough."
                        Whereupon Mr. Holmes gave them ten shillings, or 8 13 cents each, and as
                            he sailed away the grateful  assemblage
                            gave three rousing cheers for Mr. Rockefeller.
                        When we left Assouan we scooted by rail direct to Cairo, to rest up and
                            recover from our recuperation.
                        It is customary in winding up a series of letters  to draw certain profound conclusions and give
                            hints to travellers who may hope to follow the same beaten path.
                            Fortunately, Mr. Peasley had done this for  us. He promised a real estate agent in Fairfield, Iowa, that he would
                            let him know about Egypt. One night in Assouan he read to us the letter
                            to his friend, and we borrowed it: 
                                
                                    
                                        Assouan, Some time in April. Deloss M.
                                            Gifford, Fairfield, Iowa, U. S. A. My Dear
                                            Giff:
                                        I have gone as far up the Nile as my time and the letter
                                            of credit will permit. At 8 G. M. tomorrow I turn my
                                            face toward the only country on earth where a man can
                                            get a steak that hasn't got goo poured all over
                                            it. Meet me at the station with a pie. Tell mother I am
                                            coming home to eat.
                                        Do I like Egypt? Yesbecause now I will be satisfied with
                                            Iowa. Only I'm afraid that when I go back and
                                            see 160 acres of corn in one field I won't
                                            believe it. Egypt is a wonderful country, but very small
                                            for its age. It is about as wide as the court house
                                            square, but it seems to me at least 10,000 miles long,
                                            as we have been two weeks getting up to the First
                                            Cataract. Most of the natives are farmers. The
                                            hard-working tenant gets one-tenth of the crop every
                                            year and if he looks up to see the steamboats go by he
                                            is docked. All Egyptians who are not farmers are
                                            robbers. The farmers live on the river. All other
                                            natives live on the tourists.
                                        
                                        I have seen so many tombs and crypts and family vaults
                                            that I am ashamed to look an undertaker in the face. For
                                            three weeks I have tried to let on to pretend to make a
                                            bluff at being deeply interested in these open graves.
                                            Other people gushed about them and I was afraid that if
                                            I didn't trail along and show some sentimental
                                            interest they might suspect that I was from Iowa and was
                                            shy on soulfulness. I'll say this much,
                                            howeverI'm mighty glad I've seen them,
                                            because now I'll never have to look at them
                                            again.
                                        Egypt is something like the old settler you'd
                                            like to roast him and call him down, but you hate to
                                            jump on anything so venerable and weak. Egypt is so old
                                            that you get the headache trying to think back. Egypt
                                            had gone through forty changes of administration and was
                                            on the down grade before Iowa was staked out.
                                        The principal products of this country are insects, dust,
                                            guides, and fake curios. I got my share of each. I am
                                            glad I came, and I may want to return some day, but not
                                            until I have worked the sand out of my ears and taken in
                                            two or three county fairs. I have been walking down the
                                            main aisle with my hat in my hand so long that now I am
                                            ready for something lively.
                                        Americans are popular in Egypt, during business hours.
                                            Have not been showered with social attentions, but I am
                                            always comforted by the thought that the exclusive
                                            foreign set cannot say anything about me that I  haven't already
                                            said about it. Of course, we could retaliate in proper
                                            fashion if we could lure the foreigners out to Iowa, but
                                            that seems out of the question. They think Iowa is in
                                            South America.
                                        I shall mail this letter and then chase it all the way
                                            home.
                                        Give my love to everybody, whether I know them or not.
                                            Yours,
                                        
                                            PEASLEY. P. S.Open
                                            some preserves.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Not a comprehensive review of the fruits of our journey and yet fairly
                            accurate.
                    
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
