
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Shot With Crimson: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2357
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                
            
            
            
                BY GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON
                
                    GRAUSTARK
                    
                    CASTLE CRANEYCROW
                    
                    BREWSTER'S MILLIONS
                    
                    THE SHERRODS
                    
                    THE DAY OF THE DOG
                    
                    BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK
                    
                    THE PURPLE PARASOL
                    
                    NEDRA
                    
                    COWARDICE COURT
                    
                    JANE CABLE
                    
                    THE FLYERS
                    
                    THE DAUGHTER OF ANDERSON CROW
                    
                    THE HUSBANDS OF EDITH
                    
                    THE MAN FROM BRODNEY'S
                    
                    THE ALTERNATIVE
                    
                    TRUXTON KING
                    
                    THE BUTTERFLY MAN
                    
                    THE ROSE IN THE RING
                    
                    WHAT'S-HIS-NAME
                    
                    MARY MIDTHORNE
                    
                    HER WEIGHT IN GOLD
                    
                    THE HOLLOW OF HER
                            HANDS
                    
                    A FOOL AND HIS MONEY
                    
                    BLACK IS WHITE
                    
                    THE PRINCE OF GRAUSTARK
                    
                    MR. BINGLE
                    
                    THE LIGHT THAT LIES
                    
                    FROM THE HOUSETOPS
                    
                    GREEN FANCY
                    
                    SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    "VERY GOOD, CAPTAIN! ORDERS IS ORDERS, SIR." SHE STOOD
                            OFF AND SALUTED HIM WITH MOCK SOLEMNITY.
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON Author of
                    "Graustark," "The Hollow of Her Hand,"
                    "Brewster's Millions," etc.
                WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY F. R. GRUGER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                    1918
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1918 BY DODD, MEAD AND
                    COMPANY, INC.
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    "Very good, Captain! Orders in orders, sir." She stood
                        off and saluted him with mock solemnity. (Page 66) 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    Carstairs took up the receiver. He realized that his hand trembled. He had
                        never known it to happen before, even in moments of great stress 36
                        
                    They did not speak until they reached a deserted corner of the hotel lobby
                            94
                        
                    Carstairs sprang to his feet. For an instant a flash of joy transfigured
                        his face 150
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                
                SHOT WITH CRIMSON
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    
                        FOR thirty seconds no one moved.
                    An odd sort of paralysis seemed to have gripped every one in the
                        room,paralysis of the mind as well as of the body.
                    Then puzzled, wondering looks were exchanged.
                    A man sitting near the fireplace glanced sharply, apprehensively at the huge
                        beams in the ceiling and muttered:
                    "What was it? Sounded as though something had smashed in the roof.
                        There's a tremendous wind. It may have got that big tree at the
                        corner of the locker room."
                    "It couldn't have been thunder,not at
                        this time of the year," said one of the women, sending a nervous,
                        frightened look at her husband who sprawled ungracefully in a big Morris
                        chair at the end of a table littered with newspapers and magazines.
                    
                    "'Gad, did you feel the house rock?" exclaimed he,
                        sitting up suddenly, his eyes narrowing as with pain. "Like an
                        earthquake or"
                    "It couldn't have been an
                        earthquake," interrupted his wife, starting up from her chair.
                    "Why couldn't it?" he demanded crossly, and then
                        glanced around at the other occupants of the room,ten or a dozen men and
                        women seated in a wide semi-circle in front of the huge logs blazing in the
                        fireplace. "What do you think it was, Zimmie?"
                    "We'll find part or all of the roof gone,"
                        answered the man addressed. As he spoke, he rose quickly and started across
                        the room in the direction of the door leading to the steward's
                        pantry. "I'll have a look from the back of the"
                    He stopped short. The dull, ripping crash that had startled them was
                        repeated, this time a little louder and more prolonged than before. The
                        club-house shook. Several of the men sprang to their feet in alarm. A look
                        of comprehension shot among them.
                    
                    "By Gad! An explosion!" cried one of them. "The
                        damned beasts!"
                    "The Reynolds Works!" cried another, gripping the back of
                        his chair with tense fingers. "Sure as you're alive!
                        It's only a few miles from here. Nothing else could have"
                    "Let's go home, Ned. The childrensomething may have
                        happenedyou never can tell"
                    "Don't get excited, Betty," cried the man in the
                        Morris chair. She was shaking his arm. "The children are in New
                        York, twenty miles away. They're all right, old girl. Lord! What a
                        smash it was!"
                    The group was silent, waiting with bated breath for the third and perhaps
                        more shocks to come.
                    The club steward came into the room, bearing a tray of bottles and glasses.
                        His face was ashen; there was a set expression about it, as one who controls
                        his nerves with difficulty.
                    "Did you hear it, Peter?" was the innocuous inquiry of one
                        of the men, a dapper young fellow in corduroys.
                    
                    "Yes, Mr. Cribbs. I thought at first it was the roof, sir. The chef
                        said it was the big chimney"
                    "Never mind the drinks, Peter," said a tall, greyish man as
                        the steward placed the glasses on the table. "We've lost
                        what little thirst we had. Where are the Reynolds Works from here?"
                    Peter looked surprised. "South, sir,beyond the hills. About five
                        miles, I should say, Mr. Carstairs."
                    "And which way is south?" inquired one of the women.
                        "I am always turned around when I am in the country." She
                        was a singularly pallid, clear-featured woman of perhaps forty-five. One
                        might surmise that at twenty she had been lovely, even exquisite.
                    "This way, Mrs. Carstairs," said the steward, starting
                        toward the windows at the lower end of the lounge.
                    The man who had been addressed as Zimmie was already at one of the broad
                        windows, peering out into the black, windy night.
                    "Can't see a thing," he said, as the others  crowded about him. "The shops are off
                        there in a direct line with the home green, I should say."
                    "I happen to know that the Allies have a fifteen million dollar
                        contract with the Reynolds people," said Carstairs, looking hard
                        into the blackness.
                    "If they'd string up a few of these infernalThere! See the
                        glow coming up over the hill? She's afire! And with this
                        wind,'gad, she'll go like waste paper! My God, I wish the
                        whole German Army was sitting on top of those buildings right now."
                        It was little Mr. Cribbs who spoke. He was shaking like a leaf.
                    "I'd rather see a million or two of these so-called
                        German-Americans sitting there, Cribbs," said Carstairs, between
                        his teeth. "There'd be some satisfaction in
                        that."
                    His wife nudged him sharply. He turned and caught the warning look in her eye
                        and the slight movement of her head in the direction of the man called
                        Zimmie.
                    "Oh, that's all right," cried Carstairs
                        carelessly. "You needn't punch me, dear. Zimmie's
                             as good an American as any of us.
                        Don't think for a moment, Zimmie, old chap, that I include you in
                        the gang I'd like to see sitting on that pile of shells over
                        there."
                    The man at the window turned, and smiled affably.
                    "Thanks, old man. Being, as you say, as good an American as any of
                        you, I may be permitted to return the compliment. I shouldn't like
                        to see Mrs. Carstairs sitting on that pile of shells."
                    Carstairs flushed. An angry light leaped to his eyes, but it was banished
                        almost instantly. Mrs. Carstairs herself replied.
                    "I can't imagine anything more distasteful," she
                        drawled.
                    "But Mrs. Carstairs isn't a German," put in little
                        Mr. Cribbs, somewhat tartly for him.
                    "You're always saying the wrong thing, Cribbs,or the right
                        thing at the wrong time," said Carstairs. "Mrs. Carstairs
                        is not German. Her father and mother were, however. She's in the
                        same fix as Zimmerlein, and she isn't ashamed of it any more than
                        Zimmie is,"
                    
                    "I haderno idea that Mrs. Carstairs was"
                    "What were your parents, Mr. Cribbs?" asked Mrs. Carstairs
                        calmly.
                    "Nebraskans," said Cribbs, stiffening. "My
                        grandfather was a Welshman."
                    "And so you have absolutely nothing to reproach yourself
                        with," said she. "How fortunate in these days."
                    "I'm sorry, Mrs. Carstairs, if I"
                    "I was born in the United States," she said, without a
                        trace of annoyance, "but not in Nebraska. You have the advantage of
                        me there, I fear. And of poor Mr. Zimmerlein, too. He was born in
                        Boston,were you not?"
                    "In Marlborough Street," said Zimmerlein, drily.
                        "My father was Irish, as you can tell by me name, and me poor
                        mither was Irish too. Her name before marriage was Krausshof."
                    Mr. Cribbs's face was scarlet. To cover his confusion, he wedged his
                        way a little closer to the windows and glared at the dull red light that
                        crept slowly out of the darkness off to the south. The crests of the hills
                        were beginning  to take shape against a
                        background shot with crimson.
                    "Just the same," he muttered, "I'd like
                        to see the men who are responsible for that fire over there burning in
                        hell."
                    "I think we can agree on that point, at least, Mr. Cribbs,"
                        said Zimmerlein, with dignity.
                    "Who wants to run over there with me in my car?" cried the
                        other, excitedly. "It's only a few miles, and it must be a
                        wonderful sight. I can take six or seven"
                    "Stay where you are, Cribbs," said Carstairs sharply.
                        "When those shells begin to go offWhy, man alive, there's
                        never been anything on the French front that could hold a candle to it.
                        Don't forget what happened when Black Tom pier was blown up. Pray
                        do not be alarmed, ladies. There isn't the slightest danger here.
                        The shells they are making at the Reynolds plant are comparatively small.
                        We're safely out of range."
                    "What size shells were they making, Carstairs?" inquired
                        one of the men.
                    "Three inch, I believeand smaller. A lot  of machine-gun ammunition, too. Cox, the general manager, dined with us
                        the other night. He talked a little too freely, I thought,didn't
                        you, Frieda?"
                    "He boasted, if that is what you mean," said Mrs.
                        Carstairs.
                    "Well," said a big, red-faced man on the outer edge of the
                        group, "it's time some of these blooming fools learned how
                        to keep their mouths shut. The country's full of spies,running over
                        with 'em. You never know when you're talking to
                        one."
                    Silence followed his remark. For some time they all stood watching the
                        crimson cloud in the distance, an ever-changing, pulsing shadow that
                        throbbed to the temper of the wind.
                    They represented the reluctant element of a large company that had spent the
                        afternoon and early evening at the Black Downs Country Club,the element that
                        is always reluctant to go home. There had been many intimate little dinner
                        parties during the evening. New York was twenty miles or more away, and
                        there was the Hudson in between. The clock above the  huge fireplace had struck eleven a minute or two before the
                        first explosion took place. Chauffeurs in the club-garage were sullenly
                        cursing their employers. All but two or three waiters had gone off to the
                        railway station not far away, and the musicians had made the 10:30 up-train.
                        Peter, the steward, lived on the premises with the chef and several house
                        employs.
                    The late-staying guests were clad in sport clothes, rough and warm and
                        smart,for it was one of the smartest clubs in the Metropolitan district.
                    A fierce October gale was whining, cold and bitter and relentless, across the
                        uplands; stormwarnings had gone out from the Weather Bureau; coast-wise
                        vessels were scurrying for harbours and farmers all over the land had made
                        snug their livestock against the uncertain elements.
                    If it turned out to be true that the vast Reynolds munitions plant had been
                        blown up, the plotters could not have chosen a more auspicious night for
                        their enterprise. No human force could combat the flames on a night like
                        this;  caught on the wings of the wind there
                        would be no stopping them until the ashes of ruin lay wet and sodden where
                        the flight had begun.
                    Mrs. Carstairs was the first to turn away from the windows. She shuddered a
                        little. A pretty, nervous young wife sidled up to her, and laid a trembling
                        hand on her arm.
                    "Wouldn't it be dreadful if there were a lot of people at
                        work over there whenwhen it happened?" she cried, in a tense,
                        strained voice. "Just think of it."
                    "Don't think about it, Alice dear. Think of what they are
                        going through in France and Belgium."
                    "But we really aren't fighting them yet," went on
                        the other, plaintively. "Why should they blow up our factories? Oh,
                        these dreadful, terrible Germans." Then suddenly, in confusion:
                        "II beg your pardon."
                    Mrs. Carstairs smiled pleasantly. "That's all right, my
                        dear. A good many of us suffer for the sins of the fathers. Besides, we are
                        in the war, and have been for six months or more."
                    
                    "We all hate the Kaiser, don't we?" pleaded the
                        younger woman.
                    Mrs. Carstairs pressed her arm. "None more so than those of us whose
                        parents left Germany to escape such as he."
                    "I'm glad to hear you say that."
                    "Beg pardon," said Peter the steward, at Mrs.
                        Carstairs' elbow. "I think this is yours. You dropped it
                        just now."
                    "Thank you, Peter," said she, taking the crumpled
                        handkerchief he handed her. "I shan't drop it
                        again," she went on, smiling as she stuffed it securely in the gold
                        mesh bag she was carrying.
                    "Peter is such a splendid man, isn't he?" said her
                        young companion, lowering her voice. "So much more willing and
                        agreeable than old Crosby. We're all so glad the change was
                        made."
                    "He is most efficient," said Mrs. Carstairs.
                    The admirable Peter approached Mr. Carstairs and Zimmerlein, who were pouring
                        drinks for themselves at the table.
                    "Preparedness is the word of the hour," Carstairs  was saying, as he raised his glass.
                        "It's a long, cold ride home."
                    "Excuse me, gentlemen, shall I call up Central at Bushleigh and see
                        if they can give us any news?" asked Peter.
                    "You might try. I don't believe you can get a connection,
                        however. Everything must be knocked galley-west over on that side of the
                        ridge."
                    "I think your wife is signalling you, Carstairs," said
                        Zimmerlein, looking over the other's shoulder.
                    Carstairs tossed off the contents of the glass, and reached out his hand for
                        the check. Zimmerlein already had it in his fingers.
                    "I'll sign it, old chap," he said. "Give
                        me your pencil, Peter."
                    "None of that, Zimmie. I ordered the"
                    "Run along, old man, your wife He's coming, Mrs.
                        Carstairs," called out Zimmerlein.
                    As Carstairs turned away, Zimmerlein scratched his name across the check, and
                        handed it back to the steward.
                    "Under no circumstances are you to call up  Bushleigh," fell in low, distinct tones from his lips.
                        "Do you understand?"
                    Peter's hand shook. His face was livid.
                    "Yes, sir," he muttered. "What shall I say to Mr.
                        Carstairs?"
                    "Say that no one answers," said the other, and walked away.
                    The company had recovered its collective and individual power of speech.
                        Every one was talking,loudly, excitedly, and in some cases violently. Some
                        were excoriating the Germans, others were bitterly criticizing the
                        Government for its over-tenderness, and still others were blaming themselves
                        for not taking the law in their own hands and making short work of the
                        "soap-boxers," the "pacifists," and the
                        "obstructionists." Little Mr. Cribbs was the most violent
                        of them all. He was for organizing the old-time Vigilantes, once so
                        efficacious in the Far West, and equipping them with guns and ropes and
                        plenty of tar and feathers.
                    "Nothing would please me more than to lead such a gang," he
                        proclaimed. "Lead 'em right 
                        into these foul nests where What's that, Judge?"
                    "I repeatHow old are you, Cribbs?"
                    "Oh, I guess I'm old enough to shoot a gun, or pull a rope
                        or carry a bucket of tar," retorted the young man.
                    "I'll put it the other way. How young are you?"
                    "I'm twenty-nine."
                    "I see. And how did you escape the draft?"
                    "They haven't reached my number yet," said Mr.
                        Cribbs, with dignity.
                    "Well, that's good. There's still hope,"
                        said the Judge, grimly. "They need just such fire-eaters as you
                        over there in France with Pershing."
                    Carstairs turned to Zimmerlein, who was being helped into his fur-coat by one
                        of the attendants.
                    "Can't we take you to the city, Zimmerlein? There is plenty
                        of room in the car."
                    "No, thank you, Carstairs. I'm going in by train. Mr. and
                        Mrs. Prior will drop me at the  station. Good
                        night. Oh, here's Peter. What did you hear?"
                    "I could get no answer, Mr. Zimmerlein," said the steward
                        steadily. "Wires may be down, sir."
                    "Good night, Mrs. Carstairs." Zimmerlein held out his hand.
                        She hesitated an instant, and then took it. Her gaze was fixed, as if
                        fascinated, on his dark, steady eyes.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    
                        HOARSE, raucous-voiced newsboys were crying the
                        "extras" soon after midnight. They were doing a thriving
                        business. The destruction of the great Reynolds plant, more spectacular and
                        more appalling than any previous deed perpetrated by the secret enemies of
                        the American people, was to drive even the most sanguine and indifferent
                        citizen to a full realizaton of the peril that stalked him and his
                        fellow-man throughout the land. Complacent security was at last to sustain a
                        shock it could not afford to scorn. Up there in the hills of Jersey a
                        bombardment had taken place that rivalled in violence, if not in human toll,
                        the most vivid descriptions of shell-carnage on the dripping fronts of
                        France.
                    Huge but vague headlines screamed into the faces of quick-breathing men and
                        wide-eyed women the first details of the great disaster across the River.
                    Night-farers, threading the streets, paused in 
                        their round of pleasure to gulp down the bitter thing that came up into
                        their throatsa sick thing called Fear. From nearly every doorway in the
                        city, some one issued forth, bleak-eyed and anxious, to hail the scurrying
                        newsboys. The distant roar of the shells had roused the millions in
                        Manhattan; windows rattled, the frailer dwellings rocked on thin
                        foundations. It was not until the clash of heavy artillery swept up to the
                        city on the wind from the west that the serene, contemptuous denizens of the
                        greatest city in the world cast off their mask of indifference and rose as
                        one person to ask the vital question: Are the U-Boats in the Harbour at
                        last?
                    An elderly man, two women, and a sallow-faced man of thirty sat by the
                        windows at the top of a lofty apartment building on the Upper West Side. For
                        an hour they had been sitting there, listening, and looking always to the
                        west, out over the dark and sombre Hudson. Father, mother, daughter and son.
                        The first explosion jarred the great building in which they were securely
                        housed.
                    
                    "Ah!" sighed the old man, and it was a sigh of relief, of
                        satisfaction. The others turned to him and smiled for the first time in
                        hours. The tension was over.
                    Farther down-town two men in one of the big hotels silently shook hands, bade
                        each other a friendly good-night for the benefit of chance observers, and
                        went off to bed. The waiting was over.
                    Two night watchmen met in front of one of the biggest office buildings in New
                        York, within hearing of the bells of Trinity and almost within sound of the
                        sobbing waters of the Bay. Their faces, rendered almost invisible behind the
                        great collars that protected them from the shrill winds coming up the
                        canyons from the sea, were tense and drawn and white, but their eyes
                        glittered brightly, fiercely, in the darkness. They too had been waiting.
                    In a dingy apartment in Harlem, three shifty-eyed, nervous men, and a pallid,
                        tired, frightened woman rose suddenly from the lethargy of suspense and
                        grinned evilly, not at each other but at the rattling, dilapidated window
                             looking westward across the sagging roofs
                        of the squalid district. One of the men stretched forth a quivering hand
                        and, with a hoarse laugh of exultation, seized in his fingers a strange,
                        crudely shaped metallic object that stood on the table nearby. He lifted it
                        to his lips and kissed it! Then he put it down, carefully, gingerly,with
                        something like fear in his eyes. Scraps of tin, pieces of iron and steel,
                        strands of wire, wads of cotton and waste, and an odd assortment of tools
                        littered the table. Harmless appearing cans, and bottles, and dirty
                        packages, with a mortar and pestle, a small chemist's scales,
                        funnels and graduates stood in innocent array along a shelf attached to the
                        wall, guarded,so it seemed,by sinister looking tubes and retorts.
                    The woman, her eyes gleaming with a malevolent joy that contrasted strangely
                        with the dread that had been in them a moment before, lifted her clenched
                        hands and hissed out a single word:
                    "Christ!"
                    
                    They, too, had been waiting.
                    Thousands there were in the great city whose eyes glistened that
                        night,thousands who had not been waiting, for they knew nothing of the
                        secret that lay secure and safe in the breasts of the few who were allowed
                        to strike. Thousands who rejoiced, for they knew that a great and glorious
                        deed had been done! They only knew that devastation had fallen somewhere
                        with appalling force,it mattered not to them where, so long as it had fallen
                        in its appointed place!
                    Many a glass, many a stein, was raised in stealthy tribute to the hand that
                        had rocked the city of New York! And in the darkness of the night they hid
                        their gloating faces, and whispered a song without melody.
                    Rich man, poor man, beggar-man, thief! In spirit, at least, they touched
                        hands and thrilled with a common exaltation!
                    It was after one o'clock when the Carstairs' motor crept
                        out of the ferry-house at 130th Street, and whirled up the hill toward the
                        Drive. A rough-looking individual who loitered unmolested  in the lee of the ferry-house, peered intently
                        at the number of the car as it passed, and jotted it down in a little book.
                        He noted in the same way the license numbers of other automobiles. When he
                        was relieved hours afterward, he had in his little book the number of every
                        car that came in from Jersey between half past eleven at night and seven
                        o'clock in the morning. It was not his duty to stop or question the
                        occupants of these cars. He was merely exercising the function of the
                        mysterious Secret Eyes of the United States Government.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Carstairs were admitted to their Park Avenue apartment by a
                        tall, beautiful girl, who threw open the door the instant the elevator
                        stopped at the floor.
                    "Thank goodness!" she cried, a vibrant note of relief in
                        her voice "We were so dreadfully"
                    "What are you doing up, Louise?" cried Mrs. Carstairs
                        quickly. Her husband frowned, as with annoyance.
                    "Where is Hodges?" he demanded. He  stood stock-still for a moment before following his wife into
                        the foyer.
                    "He went out some time ago to get an 'extra.' The
                        boys were in the street calling new ones. He asked if he might go out.
                        Howhow terrible it is, Uncle Davvy. And it was so near the Club, IIoh, I was
                        dreadfully worried. The papers say the shells fell miles awayWhy, I
                        couldn't go to bed, Aunt Frieda. We have been trying for hours to
                        get the Club on the telephone." She was assisting Mrs. Carstairs in
                        removing her rich chinchilla coat. Carstairs studied the girl's
                        white face with considerable anxiety as he threw off his own fur coat. The
                        worried frown deepened.
                    "Could you hear the explosions over here, Louise?" he
                        asked.
                    "Hear them? Why, Uncle dear, we all thought the city was being
                        bombarded by warships in the river, it sounded so near and so terrible.
                        Alfie and I ran to the windows. It was just after eleven, I think. He called
                        up Central at once, but the girl was so frightened  she could hardly speak. She didn't know what had
                        happened, but she was sure the Germans were destroying the city. She said
                        another girl had seen the Zeppelins. Alfie went out at once. Oh, dear, I am
                        so glad you are home. I was so anxious"
                    "My dear child, you should be in bed," began her uncle,
                        taking her hand in his. He laid his other hand against her cheek, and was
                        relieved to find it cool. "You say Alfred went outat
                        eleven?"
                    "A few minutes after eleven. He waited until all the noise had
                        ceased. I assured him I was not the least bit nervous. He had been working
                        so hard all evening in your study over those stupid physics."
                    "And he hasn't returned? Confound him, he
                        shouldn't have gone off and left you all alone here for two solid
                        hours"
                    "Don't be angry with him, Uncle Davvy," pleaded
                        the girl. "He was so excited, poor boy, he simply couldn't
                        sit here without knowing what had happened. Besides, Hodges and two of the
                        maids were up,so I wasn't all 
                        alone." She followed them into the brilliantly lighted
                        drawing-room. "Here are the first extras. The doorman sent them up
                        to me."
                    Mrs. Carstairs dropped heavily into a chair. Her face was very white.
                    "How terrible," she murmured, glancing at the huge
                        headlines.
                    "I say, Frieda," exclaimed her husband;
                        "it's been too much for you. A drop of brandy, my
                        dear,"
                    "Nothing, thank you, Davenport. I am quite all right. The shock, you
                        know. We were so near the place, Louise,don't you see? Really, it
                        was appalling."
                    "What beasts! What inhuman beasts they are!" cried the
                        girl, in a sort of frenzy. "They ought to be burned alive,burned
                        and tortured for hours. The last extra says that the number of dead and
                        mutilated is beyond"
                    "Now, now!" said Carstairs, gently.
                        "Don't excite yourself, child. It isn't good for
                        you. You've been too ill, my dear. Run along to bed,
                        there's a sensible girl. We'll have all the details by
                        tomorrow,and, believe me, things 
                        won't be as bad as they seem tonight. It's always the
                        case, you know. And you, too, Frieda,get to bed. Your nerves are all shot to
                        pieces,and I'm not surprised. I will wait for"
                    A key grated in the door
                    "Here he is now. Hello, Alfred,what's the latest?"
                    His son came into the room without removing his overcoat or hat. His dark
                        eyes, wet from the sharp wind without, sought his mother's face.
                    "Are you all right, Mother? I've been horribly worriedthank
                        the Lord! It's a relief to see that smile! You're all
                        right? Sure?"
                    He kissed his mother quickly, feverishly. She put her arm around his neck and
                        murmured in his ear.
                    "I am frightfully upset, of course, dear. Who wouldn't
                        be?"
                    He stood off and looked long and intently into her eyes. Then he straightened
                        up and spoke to his father.
                    "I might have known you wouldn't let anything  happen to her, sir. But I was horribly
                        worried, just the same. Those beastly shells went everywhere, they say. The
                        Club must have been"
                    "Nowhere near the Club, so far as I know," said his father
                        cheerfully. "We were all perfectly safe. Have they made any
                        arrests? Of course, it wasn't accidental."
                    "I've been downtown, around the newspaper
                        offices," said the young man, throwing his coat and hat on a chair.
                        "There are all sorts of wild stories. People are talking about
                        lynchings, and all that sort of rot. Nothing like that ever happens, though.
                        We do a lot of talking, and that's all. It all blows over as soon
                        as the excitement dies down. That's the trouble with us
                        Americans."
                    "America will wake up one of these days, Alfred," said his
                        father slowly, "and when she does, there will be worse things than
                        lynchings to talk about."
                    "Are your feet cold, Alfred dear?" inquired his mother, a
                        note of anxiety in her voice. "You've been tramping about
                        the streets, and  You must have a hot water
                        bottle when you go to bed. There is so much pneumonia"
                    "Always mothering me, aren't you, good Frieda?" he
                        said, lovingly. He pronounced it as if it were Friday. It was his pet name
                        for her in the bosom of the family. "Warm as toast," he
                        added. He turned to Louise. "You didn't mind my running
                        away and leaving you, did you, Louise?"
                    "Not a bit, Alfie. I tried to get Derrol on the long distance, but
                        they said at the Camp it was impossible to call him unless the message was
                        very important. IIso I asked the man if there had been any kind of an
                        accident out there and he said no, there hadn't. Iasked him if
                        Captain Steele was in bed, and he said he should hope so. Don't
                        laugh, Alfie! I know it was silly, butbut it might have
                        been an ammunition depot or something at the Camp. We didn't
                        know"
                    "Ammunition, your granny! They haven't sufficient
                        ammunition in that Camp,or in any of 'em, for that matter,to make a
                        noise loud enough to be heard across the street. How can  you expect me to keep a straight face when you
                        suggest an explosion in an Army Camp?"
                    "It's high time we stopped talking about explosions and
                        went to bed," said Carstairs, arising. He put his arm across his
                        wife's shoulders. "We've had all the explosions
                        we can stand for one night, haven't we, dear? Come along,
                        everybody. Off with you!"
                    "Hodges should be back any moment with the latest
                        'extra,'" said Louise. "Can't
                        we wait just a few minutes, Uncle Davvy? He has been gone over an
                        hour."
                    The telephone bell in Mr. Carstairs' study rang. So taut were the
                        nerves of the four persons in the adjoining room that they started
                        violently. They looked at each other in some perplexity.
                    "Probably Hodges," said Alfred, after a moment.
                        "Shall I go, dad?"
                    "See who it is," said Carstairs.
                    "Wrong number, more than likely," said his wife, wearily.
                        "Central has been unusually annoying of late. It happens several
                        times every day. The service is atrocious."
                    
                    Young Carstairs went into the study and snatched up the receiver. Moved by a
                        common impulse, the others followed him into the room, the face of each
                        expressing not only curiosity but a certain alarm.
                    "Yes, this is Mr. Carstairs' residence. ... What? ... All
                        right." He sat down on the edge of the library table and turned to
                        the others. "Must be long distance. They're getting
                        somebody."
                    Alfred Carstairs was a tall, well-built young fellow of twenty. He bore a
                        most remarkable, though perhaps not singular, resemblance to his mother. His
                        eyes were dark, his thick hair a dead black, growing low on his forehead.
                        The lips were full and red, with a whimsical curve at the corners denoting
                        not merely good humour but a certain contempt for seriousness in others. He
                        was handsome in a strong, bold way despite a strangely colourless
                        complexion,a complexion that may be described as pasty, for want of a nobler
                        word. His voice was deep, with the guttural harshness of youth; loud,
                        unmusical, not yet fixed by the processes of maturity. A  big, dominant, vital boy making the last turn
                        before stepping into full manhood. He was his mother's son,his
                        mother's boy.
                    His father, a Harvard man, had been thwarted in his desire to have his son
                        follow him through the historic halls at Cambridge,as he had followed his
                        own father and his grandfather.
                    Sentiment was not a part of Alfred's makeup. He supported his mother
                        when it came to the college selection. Together they agreed upon Columbia.
                        She frankly admitted her selfishness in wanting to keep her boy at home, but
                        found other and less sincere arguments in the protracted discussions that
                        took place with her husband. She fought Harvard because it was not
                        democratic, because it bred snobbishness and contempt, because it deprived
                        the youth of this practical age of the breadth of vision necessary to
                        success among men who put ability before sentiment and a superficial
                        distinction. She urged Columbia because it was democratic, pulsating,
                        practical.
                    In the end, Carstairs gave in. He wanted to  be
                        fair to both of them. But he was not deceived. He knew that her chief
                        reason, though spoken softly and with almost pathetic simpleness, was that
                        she could not bear the separation from the boy she loved so fiercely, so
                        devotedly. He was not so sure that filial love entered into
                        Alfred's calculations. If the situation had been reversed, he was
                        confident,or reasonably so,that Alfred would have chosen Harvard.
                    He had the strange, unhappy conviction that his son opposed him in this, as
                        in countless other instances, through sheer perversity. His
                        mother's authority always had been supreme. She had exercised it
                        with an iron-handed firmness that not only surprised but gratified the
                        father, who knew so well the tender affection she had for her child. Her
                        word was law. Alfred seldom if ever questioned it, even as a small and
                        decidedly self-willed lad. Paradoxically, she both indulged and disciplined
                        him by means of the same consuming force: her motherlove.
                    On the other hand, Carstairs,a firm and 
                        positive character,received the scantiest consideration from the boy on the
                        rare occasions when he felt it necessary to employ paternal measures. Alfred
                        either sulked or openly defied him. Always the mother stepped into the
                        breach. She never temporized. She either promptly supported the
                        father's demand or opposed it. No matter which point of view she
                        took, the youngster invariably succumbed. In plain words, it was her command that he obeyed and not his father's.
                    As time went on, Carstairs came to recognize the resistless combination that
                        opposed him, and, while the realization was far from comforting, his
                        common-sense ordered him to accept the situation, especially as nothing
                        could be clearer than the fact that she was bringing her son up with the
                        most rigid regard for his future. She had her eyes set far ahead; she was
                        seeing him always as a man and not as a boy. That much, at least, Carstairs
                        conceded, and was more proud of her than he cared to admit, even to himself.
                        He watched the sturdy, splendid, earnest development of his boy under  the influence of a force stronger than any he
                        could have exercised.
                    Sometimes he wondered if it was the German in her that made for the rather
                        unusual strength which so rarely rises above the weakness of a
                        mother's pity. Once he laughingly had inquired what she would have
                        done had their child been born a girl.
                    "I should have been content to let you bring her
                        up," said she, with a twinkle in her eye.
                    While she was resolute, almost unyielding in regard to her growing son, her
                        attitude toward her husband was in all other respects amazingly free from
                        assertiveness or arrogance. On the contrary, she was submissive almost to
                        the point of humility. He was her man. He was her law. A simple, unwavering
                        respect for his strength, his position, his authority in the home of which
                        he was the head, rendered her incapable of opposing his slightest wish. An
                        odd timidity, singularly out of keeping with her physical as well as her
                        mental endowments, surrounded her with that pleasing and,to all
                        men,gratifying atmosphere of femininity so 
                        dear to the heart of every lord and master. She made him comfortable.
                    And she was, despite her social activities, a good and capable house-wife,one
                        of the old-fashioned kind who thinks first of her man's comfort
                        and, although in this instance it was not demanded, of his purse. He was her
                        man; it was her duty to serve him.
                    As her boy merged swiftly,almost abruptly into manhood,her long-maintained
                        grip of iron relaxed. Carstairs, noting the change, was puzzled. He was a
                        long time in arriving at the solution. It was very simple after all: she
                        merely had admitted another man into her calculations. Her
                        boy had become a man,a strong, dominant man,and she was ready, even willing,
                        to relinquish the temporary power she had exerted over him.
                    She was no longer free to command. Alfred had come into his own. He was a
                        man. She was proud of him. The time had come for her to be humble in the
                        light of his glory, and she was content to lay aside the authority with
                        which she had cloaked her love and ambition for  so long. His word had become her law. She had two men
                        in her family now. Slowly but surely she was giving them to understand that
                        she was their woman, and that she knew her place. She had been for
                        twenty-two years the wife of one of them, and for twenty years the mother of
                        the other.
                    Carstairs was rich. He was a man of affairs, a man of power and distinction
                        in the councils of that exalted class known as the leaders of finance. He
                        represented one of the soundest vertebrae in the back-bone of the nation in
                        these times of war. With a loyalty that incurred a tremendous amount of
                        self-sacrifice, he had offered all of his vital energy, all of his heart, to
                        the cause of the people. He was on many boards, he was in touch with all the
                        great enterprises that worked for the comfort, the support and the
                        encouragement of those who went forth to give their lives if need be in the
                        turmoil of war. Davenport Carstairs stood for all that was fine and strong
                        in practical idealism, which, after all, is the basis of all things truly
                        American.
                    
                    
                        CARSTAIRS TOOK UP THE RECEIVER. HE
                                REALIZED THAT HIS HAND TREMBLED. HE HAD NEVER
                                KNOWN IT TO HAPPEN BEFORE. EVEN IN MOMENTS OF GREAT STRESS.
                    
                    
                    As he stood inside the study door, watching with some intensity the face of
                        his son, he was suddenly conscious of a feeling of dread, not associated
                        with the recent grave event, but something new that was creeping, as it
                        were, along the wire that reached its end in the receiver glued to
                        Alfred's ear. He glanced at his wife. She suddenly exhaled the
                        breath she was holding and smiled faintly into his concerned eyes.
                    "Yes," said Alfred, impatiently, after a long
                        pause,"Yes, this is Mr. Carstairs' home... I am his son.
                        ... What? ... Yes, he's here, but can't you give me the
                        message? ... Who are you? ... What? ... Certainly I'll call him,
                        but ... Here, father; it's some one who insists on speaking to you
                        personally."
                    He set the receiver down on the table with a sharp bang, and straightened up
                        to his full height as if resenting an indignity.
                    Carstairs took up the receiver. He realized that his hand trembled. He had
                        never known it to happen before, even in moments of great stress.
                    
                    "Yes, this is Davenport Carstairs. Who are you, please?" He
                        started slightly at the crisp, business-like reply. "Bellevue
                        Hospital? Police surgeonWhat? Just a moment, please. Now, go
                        ahead." He had seated himself in the great library chair at the end
                        of the table. "Yes; my butler's name is Hodges. ... An
                        Englishman. ... What? ... What has happened, officer? . ... Good God! ...
                        IWhy, certainly, I shall come down at once if necessary. Ican identify him,
                        of course. ... Yes, tomorrow morning will suit me better. ...Hold the wire a
                        moment, please."
                    He turned to the listeners. "Hodges has been injured by an
                        automobile," he said quietly. "I gather he is unconscious.
                        You are nervous and upset, Frieda, so you'd better retire. Leave
                        this to"
                    "Is he dead, Davenport?" she asked in a low horror-struck
                        voice.
                    "Run along, Louise,skip off to bed. I'll get the details
                        and tell you in the morning."
                    The girl swayed slightly. Her eyes were wide with anguish.
                    
                    "II shouldn't have allowed him to go out," she
                        stammered. "IOh, Uncle Davvy!"
                    Mrs. Carstairs put her arm about the girl's waist and led her from
                        the room. Carstairs looked up at his son.
                    "I guess you can stand it, Alfred. He's dead. Instantly
                        killed." He spoke into the transmitter. "Tell me how it
                        happened, please."
                    He hung up the receiver a moment or two later.
                    "Run down at the corner of Madison Avenue and 48th Street. There
                        were two witnesses, and both say that he was standing in the street waiting
                        for a car. The automobile was going forty miles an hour. He never knew what
                        hit him. Poor devil! Have you ever heard him mention his family, Alfred? We
                        must notify some one, of course."
                    "No, sir," said his son. "He seemed a quiet sort.
                        The other servants may know. Mother says his references were of the highest
                        order,that's all I know. What a terrible thing to have"
                    
                    "We must not worry your mother with this tonight, my son.
                        She's had enough for today."
                    "I should say so," exclaimed Alfred, clenching his hands.
                        He choked up, and said no more.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    
                        PAUL ZIMMERLEIN was a mining engineer. His offices were
                        off Fifth Avenue, somewhere above 34th Street. He stood well in his
                        profession, he stood high as a citizen. No one questioned his integrity, his
                        ability or his loyalty. He was a good American. At least, a great many good
                        Americans said he was, which amounts to the same thing.
                    One entered his offices through a small antechamber, where a young woman at
                        the telephone-desk made perfunctory inquiries, but always in a crisp,
                        business-like manner. She was the first cog in a smooth-running piece of
                        machinery. Her name was Mildred,Mildred Agnew, and she had a brother in the
                        British navy, from whom she received infrequent letters of a most
                        unilluminating character,letters omitting date, place and ship: in which he
                        said he was well and happy and hoped to God 
                        the Germans would come out into the open to see what the weather was like.
                    If your business was important, or you had an appointment, you would be
                        conducted by a smart-looking boy into a rather imposing corner room, from
                        whose windows you could look down fourteen storeys to the roof of an eight
                        storey building below. Presently you would be invited into Mr.
                        Zimmerlein's private office. Beyond this snug little office was the
                        drafting room, where several actively studious men of various ages bent over
                        blue-prints and estimate sheets.
                    They all appeared to be good, industrious Americans; you could see them quite
                        plainly through the glass upper half of the intervening door.
                    You were at once aware of an impression that this was not the place to come
                        if you were engaged in a secret or shady enterprise,such as the exploitation
                        of a "get-rich-quick" mining proposition or any kindred
                        opening for the unwary. You always said to yourself that you  felt quite safe in the hands of Mr. Paul
                        Zimmerlein,and his associates.
                    You went about saying that you wished all men with German blood in them were
                        like Mr. Paul Zimmerlein. He became one of your pet hobbies. You invariably
                        referred to him when you declared that you knew at least one man of German
                        extraction who was "absolutely on the level," and you
                        would unhesitatingly go about proving it if any one had the effrontery to
                        even discuss the point with you. All you would have to do would be to point
                        in triumph to the men who were his associates professionally, commercially
                        and socially. The list would include many of the really significant figures
                        in public life. Among them, for instance, you would mention several United
                        States senators, at least two gentlemen high up in Administrative circles,
                        practically all of the big financiers, certain members of the English
                        Cabinet, and,in a pinch,the presidents of three South American Republics. He
                        was on record as being violently opposed to Von Bernstorff,indeed, he had
                             said such bitter and violent things about
                        the ex-ambassador that even the most conservative German-Americans,those who
                        actually were opposed to the Kaiser and his policies,felt that he was going
                        much too far.
                    He was about forty years of age, tall and powerfully built, with surprisingly
                        mobile features for one whose face at a glance suggested heaviness and
                        stolidity. His smile was ever ready and genial; his manner courtly; his
                        eyes, which were honest and unwavering, had something sprightly in them that
                        invited confidence and comradeship. The thick, dark hair was touched with
                        grey at the temples, and there was a deep scar on his left cheek,
                        receivednot in a German university, as you might suppose,but during a fierce
                        and sanguinary encounter with Yaqui Indians in northern Mexico,a tragedy
                        which cost the lives of several of his companions and brought from the
                        people of the United States a demand that the government take drastic action
                        in the matter. Altogether, a prepossessing, substantial figure of a man,
                        with a delightful personality.
                    
                    Shortly before noon on the day following the destruction of the great
                        Reynolds plant by alien plotters, Zimmerlein was seated in his office,
                        awaiting the arrival of two well-known New York merchants and a gentleman
                        from Brazil. Half-a-dozen morning newspapers, with their sinister
                        head-lines, lay upon his desk, neatly folded and stacked with grave
                        orderliness. He had read them, and was lolling back in his big leather chair
                        with a faint smile on his lips, and a far-off, frowning expression in his
                        eyes.
                    The gentleman from Brazil came first.
                    "Sit down," said Zimmerlein curtly. "They will be
                        here in a few minutes."
                    "That was a terrible thing last night, Zimmerlein," said
                        the Brazilian, nervously glancing over his shoulder in the direction of the
                        drafting-room.
                    Zimmerlein made no response. He resumed his set, faraway expression, his gaze
                        directed at the upper sash of the broad, high window, beyond which a
                        distant, grey cloud glided slowly across a blue-white sky.
                    
                    "Most shocking," went on the Brazilian, after a moment. He
                        had not removed his overcoat. The fur collar was still fastened closely
                        about his neck.
                    Zimmerlein turned toward his visitor.
                    "Take off your coat, Riaz. Make yourself comfortable," he
                        said, affably. "Help yourself to a cigar."
                    Riaz,Sebastian Riaz, diamond merchant and mine-owner of Rio Janeiro,removed
                        his coat. "The appointment was for eleven o'clock, Mr.
                        Zimmerlein," he said, looking at his watch. "They are
                        late. It is nearly twelve,"
                    "Permit me to remind you that you also were late. Everything is in
                        order, my dear sir. The deal may be closed in ten minutes,or even less time
                        than that,if there is no further haggling on your part." He closed
                        one eye slowly. "The contracts, the estimates, the plans are ready.
                        Nothing is lacking except the signatures."
                    "Just as they have been ready for nearly two months,"
                        observed Riaz, also closing an eye. 
                        "All readyexcept the signatures and the date."
                    "We shall date them,and sign them,in our extremity," said
                        Zimmerlein, going to a safe which stood invitingly open in a corner of the
                        room. He removed a small but important-looking package of papers and tossed
                        them carelessly on the table. "Such as a visit from on
                        high," he added, with a smile.
                    "Yes," said Riaz, and sat down again, frowning.
                    "We shall never be caught napping. Here are the papers, as they
                        would say in the melodrama. By the way, do you go in for melodrama in Rio?
                        Or are you above that form of amusement?"
                    Riaz remained unsmiling. "It is not as popular with us as it is with
                        you Americans," said he. "We see through it too
                        readily."
                    Zimmerlein unfolded and spread out several of the documents.
                        "There!" he said. "Let him come who will. Under
                        the sharpest eyes in America you may transfer property valued at ten
                        millions, and no one will question the validity  of the transaction. You see, my dear Riaz, you do own
                        these mines and they are exactly what they are represented to be. To save
                        their lives, they can't go behind the facts. And the purchasers are
                        prepared to hand over the cash at any moment. Could anything be
                        simpler?"
                    "Nothing," said the Brazilian,
                        sententiously,"except the damned little slip that sometimes comes
                        between the cup and the lip."
                    "Ah, but our cup is always at the lip," said Zimmerlein
                        buoyantly. "Don't be a kill-joy, old chap."
                    "All well and good, Zimmerlein, unless some one's lip
                        splits." He shot an uneasy glance into the drafting-room.
                    "This is the most perfect machine in the world, Riaz. Have no fear.
                        Every cog has been tested and is of the staunchest steel. Every part has
                        been put in its proper place by the greatest genius alive."
                    "I don't have to remind you that a few cogs in the Foreign
                        office have slipped badly."
                    The door opened to admit two brisk, prosperous-looking gentlemen.
                    
                    "I fear we are late," said the foremost. "It was
                        unavoidable, I assure you."
                    "It is never too late," said Zimmerlein, advancing to shake
                        hands with the new-comers. Then, while they were laying aside their
                        overcoats, he stepped swiftly to the door of the drafting-room and called
                        out: "Thorsensel! Come here, please. And you also,
                        Martin."
                    One of the men in the outer room, laid down the instrument with which he was
                        working over a huge blue-print; with a sigh of resignation, he removed his
                        green eye-shield, smoothed out his wrinkled alpaca coat, and came slowly,
                        diffidently into the private office. He was a middleaged, stoop-shouldered,
                        sunken-faced man, with a drooping moustache that lacked not only in pride
                        but in colour as well. The ends were gnawed and scraggly, and there were
                        cigarette stains along the uneven edges. Otherwise, this sickly adornment
                        was straw-coloured. Thick spectacles enlarged his almost expressionless blue
                        eyes; as one looked straight into them, the eyeballs seemed to be twice the
                        normal size.
                    
                    This man was John Thorsensel, civil engineer, Americanborn of Norwegian
                        parentage, graduate of one of the greatest engineering universities in the
                        country. You would go many a league before encountering a more unimposing,
                        commonplace person,and yet here was the most astute secret servant in the
                        German Kaiser's vast establishment. Not Zimmerlein, nor Riaz, nor
                        any of the important-looking individuals who skulked behind respectable
                        names, not one of them was the head and heart of the sinister, far-reaching
                        octopus that spread its slimy influence across the United States of America.
                        John Thorsensel, an insignificant toiler, was the master-mind, the
                        arch-conspirator. It was his hand that rested on the key, his thought that
                        covered everything, his infernal ingenuity that confounded the shrewdest
                        minds on this side of the Atlantic. The last man in the world to be
                        suspected,such was John Thorsensel, bad angel.
                    Martin, the other man called to the conference, was a brisk young fellow who
                        left a rolltop desk in the corner of the drafting-room  and presented himself with stenographer's note-book
                        and pencil. It is worthy of mention that this book already contained the
                        stenographic notes of the preliminary verbal discussion between the three
                        principals to a transaction involving the sale of great mining properties in
                        South America. Everything was perfectly prepared, even to the abrupt
                        termination of the conference that would come naturally in case agents of
                        the government took it into their heads to appear. Martin's notes,
                        jotted down weeks beforehand, broke off in the most natural way. There is no
                        telling how many times he had sat with the note-book on his knee in just
                        such a conference as this, without adding a single word to what already
                        appeared on the pages. It is safe to say, however, that the notes were never
                        transcribed.
                    It would have been impossible to find in the offices of Paul Zimmerlein a
                        single incriminating line, or article, or suggestion of either,for the
                        simple reason that no such thing existed. Nothing ever appeared in tangible
                        form. Visitors were always welcome.
                    
                    Once and once only had the slightest symptom of a creak appeared in the
                        well-ordered machine. One man was suspected,merely suspected. There was no
                        actual evidence against him in the hands of the conspirators, but the fact
                        that a possibility existed was enough for them. He was an
                        ordinary window-washer who came twice a month to the office,not oftener,in
                        his regular round of the building. Always it was the same man who washed
                        Zimmerlein's windows, and always a few words passed between him and
                        the engineer,words that no one else heard. One day the device to which his
                        safety belt was attached gave way and he fell fourteen storeys to the roof
                        of the building below. He was to be trusted after that.
                    The six men gathered in the office of Mr. Paul Zimmerlein formed a
                        combination of intelligence, wealth, energy and evil sufficient to satisfy
                        even the most exacting of masters. Here were the shrewdest, the safest, the
                        soundest agents of the cruelest system in all the world. No small,
                        half-hearted undertaking in frightful-ness ever grew out of their
                        deliberations; no  sporadic, clumsy botch in
                        the shape of needless violence; no crazy, fore-doomed project; no mistakes.
                        They were the big men,the men who did the big things.
                    Out of every nook and cranny in the land oozed constant and reliable reports
                        from the most trustworthy sources, from agents of both sexes; sly, secret,
                        mysterious forces supplied them with facts that no man was supposed to know;
                        the magic of the Far East was surpassed by these wizards who came not out of
                        Egypt but from commonplace, unromantic circles in the Occident.
                    The departures of vessels from every port, the nature of their cargoes; the
                        sailings of transports and the number of troops; the conditions in all the
                        munitions plants and cantonments; the state of mind of the millions of
                        workers and idlers throughout the land; the very thoughts
                        of the people in control of the country's affairs, it would seem.
                        Everything! Everything was known to this resourceful clique. They were the
                        backbone of the unrest, the uneasiness, the scepticism that swept the  land. Their agents, loyal unto death, were
                        everywhere. The secrets of sea, land and air were theirs. They could buy,buy
                        anything they wanted with the wealth that was theirs for the asking.
                    Information came to them and commands were issued by them in a thousand
                        different ways, but never in circumstances that invited suspicion. A casual
                        meeting on the street; the passing of the time of day; a hand-shake in
                        restaurant or club; brief and seemingly innocuous exchanges of pleasantries
                        at the theatre; perfunctory contact with stenographers, employes, and
                        customers in the course of a day; thus, under the eyes of all observers the
                        secret word was given and received. With these men no word was written, no
                        visible message was exchanged. And the German language was never spoken.
                    "Trains from the West are all late," said one of the late
                        arrivals, an elderly, grey-whiskered man. "Rhine did not get in
                        from Chicago till nearly eleven. It was imperative that I should see him
                        before coming here, gentlemen."
                    
                    "Well?" demanded Thorsensel.
                    "He says the time is not yet ripe. He has studied the situation, has
                        had reports from many sources. It is too soon. A partial success would be
                        far worse than a total failure. He is very positive."
                    "All right," said Thorsensel crisply. The matter was thus
                        summarily disposed of. He did not believe in wasting time or words. He
                        turned, with a questioning look, to the other prosperous-looking citizen.
                    "He died very suddenly last night," said that worthy,
                        responding to the unspoken query.
                    Thorsensel nodded his head with lively satisfaction.
                    "Anything else?"
                    "That young fellow we were speaking of the other day dropped in at
                        the store this morning. He appears to be interested in a very good-looking
                        shop-girl on the second floor. I don't know how many pairs of
                        gloves he has bought of her in the past few weeks."
                    "I know, I know," impatiently. "Miss
                        Group."
                    
                    "We're making no mistake about this fellow, are we,
                        Elberon?" demanded Zimmerlein.
                    "No,absolutely no. I'll stake my life on him."
                    "Go on," said Thorsensel curtly.
                    "The British and French Commission sails tomorrow on the Elston. There is no question about it. He had it from the
                        same source that reported their arrival last month."
                    "Martin, see that this information is on the wing
                        immediately," said Thorsensel. "We may accept it as
                        authentic."
                    "I should think we might," said Zimmerlein, "when
                        you stop to consider that no one in the United States or England is supposed
                        to know, even now, that this Commission is in the country,that is, no one
                        outside a very restricted circle in Washington. I've never known
                        anything to be kept so completey under cover. Some of the biggest men in
                        France and England land on our shores, transact the most important business
                        conceivable, and get out again without so much as a whiff of the news
                        reaching the public. Somebody deserves the Iron Cross  for this, Thorsensel. It is the cleverest, smartest piece of
                        work that has been done up to date."
                    "I venture the opinion that the Elston with its
                        precious cargo will never see land again," was
                        Thorsensel's remark.
                    "The Kitchener job all over again, eh?" said Riaz,
                        admiringly.
                    "Or the Lusitania," amended Elberon.
                    "Don't speak of the Lusitania,"
                        exclaimed Thorsensel, irritably. "You know how I feel about that
                        piece of stupidity."
                    "You were against it all the time, I know," began Elberon.
                    "Of course I was. It was the gravest blunder in history. But this is
                        no time to talk about it. Every one has reported on last night's
                        business. There were no casualties and no one is missing."
                    "Good!" exclaimed the grey-whiskered plotter, his piggish
                        eyes sparkling. "No one killed or injured or missing, eh? That
                        seems all that could be expected of Providence."
                    "Every man has reported," said Thorsensel  succinctly. "Even Trott, from whom we
                        had heard nothing for two whole days. It appears he was trapped and had to
                        lie hidden in an empty bin. He got away just in time, and without being
                        seen. Yes, luck and God were with us last night, gentlemen. Not a life lost,
                        nor a man scratched."
                    "If we come out half as well next week, I will say that God is with
                        us," said Zimmerlein.
                    "Where were you last night, Elberon?" demanded the gaunt
                        leader abruptly.
                    "I dined with some friends and went to the theatre afterwards,
                        Thorsensel."
                    "Who were they?"
                    "Mr. and Mrs. Heidel"
                    "You needn't finish the name," broke in
                        Thornsensel. "I want to warn you again not to take them into your
                        confidence,not even in the smallest of matters."
                    "His brother is a general in the Bavarian"
                    "It doesn't matter. I know all that. And one of her
                        brothers is in the Reichstag. But you must not overlook the fact that a
                        great many of these people are loyal to America.
                    
                    That is a point you don't seem able to get through your head,
                        Elberon. The worst enemy, the direst peril we have to contend with is the
                        American-German, if you grasp the distinction. No one seems to have used the
                        hyphen in just that way, Elberon, but there is such a thing as the
                        American-German, and we've got to steer clear of him. He's
                        not as uncommon as you may think, either. This man you were with last night
                        is one. He would turn you over to the authorities in a flash if he got a
                        breath of the truth. A word to the wise, Elberon, means a word to
                        you."
                    "A man is one thing or the other," said the other,
                        flushing. "He's either a German or an American.
                        There's nothing in the hyphen."
                    "You're quite right," agreed Thorsensel.
                    "The man you were with last night is an American in spite of his
                        name and his antecedents. I happen to know. Somewhere in this city there is
                        a list of the people I define as American-Germans. It is a rather formidable
                        list, let me tell you. They happen to be traitors, damn them."
                    
                    "Traitors? I thought you said they were loyal."
                    "You'd see what would happen to them if they ever set foot
                        on German soil," said Thorsensel, and it was not difficult, even
                        for the stolid Elberon, to see what he meant by loyalty.
                    An hour later the meeting came to an end, and the men went their several
                        ways, unsuspected by the troubled, harassed watch-dogs of the nation. In
                        that hour they had confidently, almost contemptuously, forwarded the
                        consummation of other enterprises even more startling than the blowing up of
                        the Reynolds plant. Remote assassinations were drawn a trifle nearer; plans
                        leading to the bombing of New York by aeroplanes that were to rise up out of
                        the sea from monster submarines; a new and not to be denied smashing of the
                        Welland Canal; well-timed collisions of ships in the lower Hudson, and other
                        basins, with results more stupendous than anything yet conceived; deceptive
                        peace propaganda for the guileless and unwary American proletariat; subtle
                        interference in the Halls of Congress; almost everything, it may  be said, except the transfer of valuable mines
                        in Brazil. That trifling detail was left to another day.
                    Within the next hour, a message was on its way through the air to far-off
                        Berlin, giving in singularly accurate figures the military losses sustained
                        by the Allies at a spot in New Jersey recently occupied by the great
                        Reynolds concern.
                
                
                
                    
                        AT the end of ten days the excitement and horror
                        occasioned by the blowing up of the Reynolds plant had succumbed to the
                        great American curse: indifference. Amateur secret service men brazenly
                        proclaiming themselves, went about more actively than ever, showing their
                        badges and looking up clues at the same time, doing more harm than good, for
                        while professional intelligence men were compelled to accept them as
                        liabilities, the grateful aliens quite properly regarded them as assets.
                    The burning of two grain warehouses in Chicago, the wrecking of a train
                        loaded with motor trucks, three dock fires in Brooklyn, and the partially
                        suppressed account of an explosion on board a man-of-war in home waters,
                        provided the public with its daily supply of pessimism. Scores of alien
                        suspects were seized, examined and interned. Others were caught with
                        "the goods," so to speak, and were flung into prison  to await, in most cases, the minimum penalty
                        for maximum intentions. But at no time was the finger of accusing Justice
                        levelled at any one of the men or women who made the wheels go round.
                    Late in the afternoon of a cold, blustering day a young man presented himself
                        at the Carstairs home. He was a smart-looking, upstanding chap in the
                        uniform of a captain of Infantry. The new butler announced that Miss
                        Hansbury was at home and was expecting Captain Steele.
                    You would go far before finding a manlier, handsomer fellow than this young
                        American soldier. Lithe, and tall, and graceful, he was every inch a man and
                        a thoroughbred. Only a few months before, he had given up a splendid
                        position down town, with a salary that few young men commanded and prospects
                        that even fewer entertained, and eagerly offered himself, heart and soul, to
                        the army that was to lift his country out of the pit of commercialism and
                        give it a place among the proud.
                    He had won his sword and his shoulder straps with the ease of one who
                        earnestly strives, and  at the same time he had
                        conquered in an enterprise sweetly remote from the horrors of war. Louise
                        Hansbury, beautiful and gifted, was wearing the emblem of surrender on the
                        third finger of her left hand.
                    He was to dine with the Carstairs that evening; as a privileged person, he
                        came long ahead of the other guests of the evening. There was to be a
                        distinguished company. A Cabinet officer, a prominent Southern Senator, an
                        Admiral of the Navy, a Foreign Ambassador, to say nothing of more than one
                        potentate in the realm of finance. And women whose names were not more
                        widely-known than their deeds in these days of great endeavour,women who had
                        put aside frivolity and selfishness and social gluttony for the cold, hard
                        business of making the country safe.
                    Mrs. Carstairs, herself, was the chairman of one of the most important of the
                        Relief Organizations controlled and operated exclusively by women; far from
                        being a mere figure-head, she was an active, zealous worker, an inspiration
                        to her associates.
                    
                    One of the guests of the evening was to be an Italian Countess whose labours
                        in the war hospitals of her native land had made her one of the most
                        conspicuous women in all Europe.
                    Louise Hansbury was the daughter of Davenport Carstairs' only
                        sister, now deceased. Since the death of her mother,her father had died when
                        she was a small child,the girl had made her home with this adoring uncle.
                        She possessed a somewhat meagre fortune,sufficient to guarantee
                        independence, however, if she chose to care for herself,a circumstance that
                        would have excited resistance in Davenport Carstairs had it ever come up for
                        discussion.
                    "How are you, dearest?" inquired the young officer, holding
                        her off to look anxiously, searchingly into her eyes. The colour of health
                        was just beginning to flow in her cheeks.
                    "Gorgeous," she replied, her eyes agleam with love and
                        happiness.
                    "Go slow," he said gently. "Don't tax
                        yourself too much. It's a serious job, this business of getting
                        well."
                    
                    "But I am well, you goose. I never felt better in
                        my life."
                    "You never were more beautiful," he said softly.
                    "I'd much rather hear you say that than something really
                        serious," she cried, smiling divinely into his dazzled eyes.
                    "You've had pneumonia," he said sternly, after the
                        moment it took to regain a temporarily lost air of authority.
                        "Mighty sick you've been, darling,and"
                    "And I'm not to get my feet wet, or sit in a draft, or Very
                        good, Captain! Orders is orders, sir." She stood off and saluted
                        him with mock solemnity. "I'm so glad you came early,
                        Derrol," she cried, abruptly abandoning her frivolous air.
                        "I'veI've wanted you so much. This has been a
                        longoh, an age, dear. You knew that poor Hodges was killed by an automobile,
                        didn't you? I never know what I put in my letters. And there is all
                        this talk about Belgium being a nest of spies at the outset, andoh, that would be too much. Sit here with me, Derrol andyou
                        might hold me close  to you,just for a little
                        while. Ityes, it does give me strength to feel your arms about me."
                    After a few moments, the troubled look that had been lurking in his eyes for
                        a long time, reappeared. A light frown clouded his brow. He glanced over his
                        shoulder, and, when he spoke, his voice was even lower than it had been
                        before.
                    "Louise dear, something very strange and mysterious has happened.
                        Don't be alarmed, dear. It has turned out all right.
                        But,'gad, it might have resulted very seriously. Do you remember
                        that I told you about ten days ago,in this very room,that I suspected a
                        certain officer in our camp of beingwell, crooked?"
                    "Yes,I remember quite well, Derrol. Isis he?"
                    He smiled grimly. "That remains to be seen. I had observed one or
                        two things about him that excited my suspicions, but I mentioned the matter
                        to no one. The next day after I spoke to you about it, I decided to go to
                        head-quarters with my fears. As a matter of fact, by that time I really had
                        something tangible to  report. I was received
                        by the general himself. He was dumbfounded. Instantly an investigation was
                        started. The officer I mentioned was missing from camp. It was found that he
                        had gone to New York the night before, but was expected back in the
                        morningjust as I was. That was ten days ago. He has never returned. It has
                        been proved beyond all question that he was a spy. There is no doubt in my
                        mind that he got a tip while in New York, and beat it for parts unknown. Now
                        the infernal part of the business is that I never mentioned my suspicions to
                        a soul except to you,never even breathed them outside of this room until the
                        next day."
                    She was staring at him in perplexity. "Butbut, Derrol dear, what
                        does it all mean? Youyou certainly cannot think that I repeated"
                    "Of course not, dear,certainly not. I"
                    "In the first place, I had not been outside the apartment,"
                        she went on in suppressed excitement. "And I give you my word of
                        honour that I did not mention the matter to a soul in this house. Not one
                        word, Derrol. If you"
                    
                    "Calm yourself, Louise," he urged, pressing her hands.
                        "The chances are that he found out he was suspected before he left
                        camp, and even as I was telling you he may have been on his way to safety. I
                        have not told any one that I spoke of the matter here,you may be quite sure
                        of that. That would bring trouble and annoyance to you andwell, I
                        couldn't allow that, you know. Just the same, he has disappeared,
                        completely, utterly. He got the scent somehow, and didn't lose a
                        minute. Saved himself from facing a firing squad, you may be sure. So far as
                        we have been able to discover, I am the only man who knew that he was up to
                        something wrong. That's the maddening part of it. Iyou see, I
                        actually had the goods on him."
                    "You looked over your shoulder just now, Derrol," she said,
                        the colour ebbing from her cheek. "Do youdo you suspect any one
                        here? Any one of the servants? They have all been with us for years,except
                        poor Hodges, and he is dead,and I know that Uncle Davenport trusts them
                        implicitly."
                    
                    He held her a little closer. His lips were close to her ear, and the
                        half-whispered words were fraught with the deepest meaning.
                    "See here, Louise, it's a desperately serious thing to
                        say,and I know I'm a fresh, half-baked upstart, and all that sort
                        of thing,but I just can't help feeling that if I hadn't
                        spoken of that matter here last week, we would have nabbed Mr. Spy
                        practically red-handed."
                    "Oh, Derrol!" she whispered, aghast. "You
                        don't know what you are saying."
                    "It's the way I feel, just the same," said he
                        stubbornly.
                    "Then you do think the warning came from this
                        house?" She attempted to withdraw herself from his arms.
                    "God bless you, darling,I don't think it came from you, or
                        in any way through you," he cried miserably.
                    "Then, whom do you suspect?" she demanded.
                    "It might have been Hodges," he said, his eyes narrowing as
                        he looked away from her.
                    
                    "But Hodges was an Englishman, and violently anti-German. It
                        couldn't have been Hodges."
                    "In any event, he's dead and can't defend
                        himself," said he. "I trust you, dearest, not to repeat a
                        word of what I've just been saying,not a word to any
                            one."
                    
                    "You are very foolish, Derrol,but I promise. Not even to Uncle
                        Davenport or Aunt Frieda. They would be shocked beyond words if they knew
                        you"
                    "That's right, dear,not even to Mr. or Mrs. Carstairs,or
                        that bustling young son of theirs."
                    "It would be far more sensible to suspect me than either of
                        them," she said.
                    A latch-key turned in the front door, and a moment later young Alfred
                        Carstairs came whistling into the hall.
                    "Hullo!" he called out, peering in upon there from the
                        dimly lighted hallway. He was shedding his overcoat.
                        "How's the camp, Derrol? Getting into shape?"
                    
                    "Getting shapelier every minute," said Derrol Steele,
                        crossing over to shake hands with the youth.
                    "Where's mother?" inquired Alfred, looking over
                        the officer's shoulder at his cousin, who had not risen.
                    "Lying down, Alfie. She has been on the go all day. Much beauty is
                        required for this evening. She's giving it a chance to catch her
                        napping."
                    "By golly, it's the only thing that ever does catch her
                        napping," said Alfred warmly. "She's a wonder,
                        Derrol. She'd be a field-marshal if she ever got into the
                        army."
                    "I haven't the least doubt of it," said Captain
                        Steele, smiling. Even as he uttered the jesting words, a strange, uncanny
                        sense of their importance took root in his mind.
                    Very serious topics were discussed by the guests at Mrs. Carstairs'
                        dinner that evening. No one felt the least restraint, nor the slightest
                        hesitancy in speaking freely of matters that never were mentioned in the
                        open. Questions that could not have been answered outside the  most secret recesses of the State department
                        were frankly asked here,and answered by some one who spoke with authority.
                        No man feared his neighbour, nor his neighbour's wife, for here
                        were assembled only those to whom the Government itself could look with
                        confidence. These were the people on the inside of everything, the spokes of
                        the inner wheel,the people who knew what was going on in Washington, in
                        London, and in Paris. No alien ears were here to listen, no alien eyes to
                        watch; sanctuary for the true and loyal.
                    One man there held his tongue, and spoke not of the things that were vital:
                        Captain Derrol Steele. It was not modesty alone that kept him silent in this
                        imposing group, nor the recognition of his own insignificance. He had had
                        his lesson. He was young enough to profit by it.
                    True, the wine may have had something to do with it. It usually does. A
                        beguiling lubricant is this thing that gets into the rustiest of brains and
                        produces a smooth combination of thought and thoughtlessness. In any case,
                        tongues wagged loosely and wits were never keener than  in this atmosphere of ripe security. A good many secrets were
                        out for an airing. They were supposed, in good time, to get back into their
                        closets and lie there as snugly as if they had never been disturbed.
                    Mrs. Carstairs was never more brilliant than on this particular evening.
                        Always clever,but never witty,she was at her best when surrounded by
                        personalities such as these; when confronted by problems which permitted her
                        profound mentality to rise to its highest level and her singularly
                        clear-headed vision to project itself across spaces that defy even the most
                        far-seeing of men. She went below the surface of everything; she saw nothing
                        from a superficial point of view. What men liked in her, and what other
                        women envied and sometimes hated, was the rare faculty of saying little
                        unless she was prepared to say a great deal more.
                    More than one great statesman had said, on occasion, that it was too bad she
                        wasn't a man! With a mind like that, well, there's no
                        telling! No wonder Davenport Carstairs was proud of her!
                    
                    And yet, with all this unstinted praise, with all this respectful admiration,
                        there was not a man among them who would have exchanged places with
                        Davenport Carstairs. Despite her beauty, her no uncertain charm of manner,
                        her strangely old-fashioned femininity, no man coveted her. As a matter of
                        fact, they were a little bit awed by Frieda Carstairs.
                    The foreign ambassador was leaving early. He explained to his hostess that a
                        very important conference was to be held that night in his rooms at the
                        hotel. He was profoundly apologetic, but if she knew how much depended on
                        the outcome of this very, very important meeting,and so
                        on, and so on. She said she understood perfectly; affairs of state, she went
                        on to say, always lead up to a state of affairs, and that, of course, was
                        hopeless unless taken in time.
                    He was a little bewildered. Fearing that she had not fully grasped his
                        meaning, he proceeded to elaborate a little. It wasn't really a
                        state of affairs, nor, for that matter, an affair of state. Time, of
                        course,yes, time was the essence  of everything
                        in these bitter days. She was quite right; the whole trouble with the Allies
                        had been the wasting of time; now they realized the importance of doing
                        things promptly. She said she was glad that they were not letting the grass
                        grow under their feet. He mumbled something about winter and the nothing
                        much growing outside the tropics, and floundered with further confidences.
                    Leaning quite close to her he whispered something in her ear. It left her
                        perfectly calm.
                    "This, you understand, my dear madam, is not to be repeated,strictly
                        confidential,absolutelyahon the quiet, as you say over here."
                    "I sha'n't even repeat it to my husband,"
                        said she.
                    The ambassador looked relieved. "I fear he would not approve of my
                        mentioning a matter that he seems to have withheld from you
                        himself."
                    She smiled.
                    "Possess your soul in peace, my dear Ambassador. I am as good as he
                        at keeping a secret."
                    
                    "It isahmost imperative that this shouldn'tahget out, so to
                        speak," said he, wishing in his soul that he had not let it out
                        himself.
                    "You have spoken to the Sphinx," said she gravely.
                    She happened to glance down the table at this juncture. Something hypnotic
                        drew her gaze directly to Captain Steele. He was regarding her steadily.
                        There was a queer, intent look in his eyes. For an instant their gaze held,
                        and then he looked away. She turned to speak to the man on her left. If he
                        had been an observing person, he would have noticed the tired look that
                        suddenly clouded her eyes,briefly, flittingly, it is true, but remaining
                        long enough to have been detected by one less absorbed in himself than he.
                        No doubt his pride would have been hurt had he observed it.
                    The little Italian Countess spoke very frankly of conditions in her country,
                        of specific needs that called for immediate action on the part of the
                        American government, of plots and counter-plots in the very heart of the
                        army, of political  and ecclesiastical intrigue
                        that sapped the courage of the people, and of the serious situation on the
                        Isonzo where victorious Italian armies were in constant danger of collapse
                        because of an utter lack of support from behind the lines. She went so far
                        as to say that in the event of a supreme assault by the Austro-Germans, the
                        Italian armies would have to relinquish their hard-earned gains and fall
                        back,perhaps in actual defeat.
                    "But the Austrians are down and out themselves," declared
                        the cabinet member. He spoke loudly, for he was at the far end of the table.
                        "They haven't a good solid kick left in them, much less
                        anything like a supreme assault, Countess."
                    "Let us hope you are right," returned the Italian woman,
                        the line deepening between her eyes. "I only know that the Italians
                        are in no condition to withstand a great offensive if it should come. Oh, if
                        only England, and France,and you, gentlemen,could but be made to realize the
                        importance of a real victory over the Austrians,if you could only be made to
                        see  how desperately we are in need of all the
                        support you can give us in men, and guns, and food, andaye, in confidence,
                        too. If the German Emperor knew the truth about our position on the Isonzo
                        and in Trentino, heah, he would not wait, he would not
                        hesitate. He would move like lightning. He would send a million men to the
                        aid of the Austrians. He would strike with all his might,and then, when it
                        was all over, you,all of you,would grate your teeth while he laughed over
                        another of your blunders."
                    The men all smiled tolerantly. She was a woman. That was just the way a
                        high-strung, emotional woman would talk.
                    "It would be quite simple, Countess," said Davenport
                        Carstairs, "if the Kaiser had even half a million men to spare. He
                        is being kept pretty busy in France and Flanders just now."
                    "Ah, but in Russia," she cried vehemently. "What
                        of the damned Russians?" In her excitement she spoke the language
                        of the army. Of her hearers, the men seemed a little more shocked than the
                        women. "Are they keeping  him pretty
                        busy? No! Are they holding his vast armies in check? No! They are doing more
                        than that. They are shoving him back, driving him and all of his men and
                        guns out of Russia. Driving them down into Italy and over to Flanders, that
                        is what they are doing. And you,you and France and England,will not wake up
                        until it is too late. When the beastly Russians have driven the Germans into
                        Paris, and across the English Channel, and down to Rome, then you will
                        understand,"
                    "But the Italians will hold the ground they have gained,"
                        protested one of the men. "I talked with members of the commission
                        before they sailed the other day, and there wasn't one of them who
                        expressed the slightest uneasiness about the Italian front. On the other
                        hand, they were of the opinion that the Italians would continue to advance.
                        The Austrians are shot to pieces."
                    "Italy was not represented in that secret mission, my dear
                        sir," said the Countess, a trifle curtly. "You do not know
                        what the Italians know, and what they are actually dreading.
                    
                    They know they cannot resist a great offensive."
                    "Well, as long as the Germans are ignorant of the true state of
                        affairs, I can't see that there is much to worry about,"
                        said Carstairs pleasantly.
                    "But the Germans will not remain in ignorance for ever, Mr.
                        Carstairs," exclaimed the Countess. "They find out
                        everything,everything, in time."
                    "Not everything," said the Admiral of the navy, blandly.
                        "Their marvellous spy system failed completely in the case of the
                        Franco-British special mission. The members of the party came, remained here
                        for more than a fortnight, sailed for home last week, and Germany never had
                        so much as an inkling of the visit. By this time the Campion is no doubt safely through the danger zone. I call that
                        beating the devil with his own stick."
                    "The Campion?" fell sharply from the lips
                        of Mrs. Carstairs.
                    "You are mistaken, Admiral. They sailed on the Elston," said her husband.
                    
                    The Admiral beamed. "My dear sir, the entire party was transferred
                        to the Campion ten hours after the Elston sailed out of this port. The Secretary took no chances. He had
                        that devilish Kitchener betrayal in mind. There was the possibility, you
                        know, of a leak somewhere. One never can tell. So everything that could be
                        thought of was done to frustrate the 'system.' The
                        destruction of the Elston with those men on board would
                        have been a greater disaster to the Allies than the loss of Kitchener or
                        half the battle front in France. I happen to know the transfer was made
                        safely and according to plans. The Elston continued her
                        voyage in convoy, but she was laden with nothing more precious than food for
                        the Germans."
                    "Food for the Germans?" cried the Italian Countess, aghast.
                    The Admiral's smile broadened. "The most indigestible food
                        that is made in America," said he. After a moment's
                        perplexity, she smiled and clapped her hands.
                    Once more Mrs. Carstairs' gaze was drawn irresistibly to the young
                        captain half way up  the table. His eyes were
                        fixed on her again, and again, as before, after an instant they were
                        averted. Something in his steady look seared her like a hot iron. He seemed
                        to be searching the innermost recesses of her brain,and she quailed. His
                        face grew suddenly pale and drawn,paler even than her own.
                    The Admiral, having come sharply into prominence, continued to play his high
                        cards. He leaned back in his chair, neglecting a dessert of which he was
                        especially fond, and with considerable bumptiousness rambled on sonorously.
                    "We've been expecting word all day from Admiral Sims. The
                        convoy is a swift one. Both the Campion and the Elston should reach port today,or at the very latest
                        tomorrow. I confess we've all been anxious. They are wiring me from
                        Washington as soon as By the way, Mrs. Carstairs, I took the liberty of
                        instructing my aide to telephone me here in case the report comes tonight.
                        Hope you don't mind. I thought"
                    "Of course I don't mind, Admiral," she said
                        warmly. "On the contrary, I am glad you  thought of it. We are all terribly interested."
                    Late in the evening,in fact, just as the guests were preparing to depart,the
                        Admiral was called to the telephone. When he rejoined the group a few
                        minutes afterward, his expression was serious.
                    "Our precautions were well taken, ladies and gentlemen," he
                        said. "The Elston was torpedoed this morning.
                        Practically everybody on board was lost."
                    There was a moment's silence. Then Captain Steele spoke.
                    "So the Germans did know that the Commission
                        sailed out of New York harbour on the Elston. It would
                        seem, Admiral, that the spy sits pretty close to the head of your board,I
                        mean, of course, your board of strategy."
                    "By Gad!" growled the distressed sailor-man. "Itit
                        is absolutely incredible. There couldn't have
                        been a leak down there."
                    "Have you an idea how many people actually knew that the party was
                        sailing on the Elston?" inquired the young man.
                        His face was very white.
                    
                    The Admiral glanced around the room, rather helplessly, "Of course
                        the fact was known to quite a number of people,such as we are here, but,
                        what are we to do if we can't trust ourselves?
                        Nothing could have been more carefully guarded. Not a line in the
                        newspapers, not a word uttered in public, not a"
                    "The information could not have come from any one directly connected
                        with the Navy department, Admiral," said Steele slowly.
                    "I'm glad to hear you say that, sir," said the
                        Admiral, stiffening.
                    "For the simple and obvious reason that it was the Elston and not the Campion they went after. A
                        spy in such a position would have known of the transfer."
                    "On the other hand, it may have been pure chance that they attacked
                        the Elston," said Davenport Carstairs, a queer
                        huskiness in his voice. "Coincidence, and nothing more. Thank
                        heaven, they didn't get the Campion."
                    Steele was the last to leave. He said good night to Louise Hansbury in the
                        little hall outside. He had rung for the elevator. The  door, on the latch, had been closed behind them and they were
                        quite alone for a few minutes.
                    "Louise," he said, and suddenly his voice, scarcely more
                        than a whisper,sounded strange and unnatural to her, "it's
                        a horrible thing to say, but thethe trouble is right here in this house. You
                        heard what the Admiral said? I can't explain how it all happened,
                        but suddenly I had awell, a revelation. A great, flaring light seemed to
                        flash in my face. I give you my word, it was actually blinding. I thought my
                        heart would never beat again. I saw through everything. It is all as plain
                        as day to me. God help us all, dearest,it'sit's
                        unspeakable. I've just got to tell you,so that you may be on your
                        guard. Tomorrowor as soon as possible, at any rate,you must make an excuse
                        to get away from here,for a visit, or anything you can think of. But get
                        away you must!"
                    "Do you know what you are saying, Derrol?" she whispered,
                        clutching his arm. She was trembling like a leaf, and swayed. An expression
                             of the utmost dread and horror filled her
                        eyes.
                    "Yes,yes, I do. It is terrible,but, by heaven, it's true,as
                        true as we live and breathe."
                    She covered her face with her hands. "Oh, Derrol,I felt it
                        too,tonight. What are we to do? What can be done?"
                    "Hush! Here is the elevator. I can't say anything more
                        tonight. I don't have to go back to Camp till tomorrow night.
                        Tomorrow morning,I'll call up. I must see you aloneand not
                        here."
                    "I go out every morning for a walk,about eleven," she
                        breathed.
                    The elevator door slid open.
                    "Good night," said he. She clasped his hand in silence.
                        Then she went back into the apartment, and, as one drugged, passed the
                        drawing-room door and staggered down the hall toward her bedroom.
                    Mrs. Carstairs, alone in the drawing-room, saw the girl pass, and stepped
                        quickly to the door.
                    
                    "Louise, dear,are you ill?" she called out.
                    "No,Aunt Frieda. II'm all right. Good night."
                    "Good night, dear. Sleep late."
                    The door down the long hall closed softly, and Frieda Carstairs turned back
                        into the drawing-room with a sigh. Her husband was looking over the night
                        mail that had been piled on his desk in the study. She went in to him.
                    "I wonder if poor, dear Alfred is struggling with that abominable
                        nightmare of his," she said. "Really, Davenport, the boy
                        is wearing himself out. I don't see why physics should be so
                        difficult for him."
                    "They were difficult for me, my dear," said he, looking up.
                        Their eyes met, and she smiled gently, lovingly. He took her firm, steady
                        hand and pressed it to his cheek.
                    "I think I'll run in and shoo him off to bed. If only he
                        wouldn't smoke that dreadful pipe while he studies. He breathes
                        nothing but smoke."
                    "Doesn't hurt him a bit," said he.
                        "They've  got sheet-iron
                        lungs, you see,these sophomores."
                    She left him and went down to her son's room. Carstairs was staring
                        fixedly, intently into space when she returned,he knew not how long
                        afterwards. He came out of his reverie with a start when she spoke to him
                        from the door.
                    "Alfie is going out for a breath of fresh air," she said.
                        "It seemed to me his room was stuffier and smokier than
                        I've ever known it to be before. Really, dear, he is dreadfully
                        trying. He"
                    "My dear, you've never been a boy," said he,
                        collecting himself and smiling. "You don't know what it is
                        to be completely self-satisfied."
                    "I'll be back in a few minutes," said Alfred,
                        coming up behind his mother. "Are you going to sit up much longer,
                        mother?"
                    "A little while. Hurry back, dear. Don't go out without
                        your overcoat. There is quite a chill in the air."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    
                        MR. PAUL ZIMMERLEIN'S telephone rang shortly
                        before midnight. He lived in a small, exclusive hotel on one of the
                        cross-town streets, near Fifth Avenue. A brief conversation over the wire
                        ensued. A few minutes later he appeared at the desk in the office
                        downstairs, dressed for the street. He was very angry.
                    "Why was I not informed when I came in this evening that Mr. Prince
                        had called up and was expecting me to join his party at the Helvetia for
                        supper, Mr. Rogers? He rang me up at nine o'clock and instructed
                        you to put the message in my box."
                    "I have no recollection of"
                    "Of course you haven't. You never do have any recollection.
                        None of you. I shall take the matter up with the manager in the morning,
                        Rogers. It has happened before. The least  you
                        could have done was to stick the message in my box."
                    "I will inquire of the telephone operator. The regular boy is off
                        tonight. If there has been any carelessness, Mr. Zimmerlein, it has been
                        with her,not with us, sir," said the clerk, with the servility that
                        is sometimes mistaken for civility on the part of hotel clerks.
                    "I haven't time to listen to her excuses. They have been
                        waiting for me since eleven o'clock, and I have been in my room
                        since ten."
                    "I know, sir. It was a little before ten when you came in."
                    "Well, be good enough to investigate. I warn you that I intend to
                        complain in the morning."
                    "I'm sorry, sir," began the clerk, but Zimmerlein
                        was already on his way to the street.
                    The night-clerk scowled after him, and then retired behind the key-rack to
                        consult the operator.
                    "What's the matter with you?" he demanded.
                        "Zimmerlein's sore as a crab about not getting  a message that came in at nine,he says,and
                        he's going to raise hell about it."
                    "Nobody called him up,not till just a few minutes ago. It's
                        the old gag. I heard what the guy said to Zimmerlein,-about calling up at
                        nine and giving directions and all that bunk, and I had to hold my tongue
                        between my teeth to keep from butting in and telling him he was a liar,
                        and"
                    "Tell that to Mr. Coxhorn in the morning," broke in the
                        clerk, and moved languidly away. That was the extent of his investigations.
                    The Helvetia was a brisk five minutes' walk from
                        Zimmerlein's hotel. He did it in three.
                    "Is Mr. Prince entertaining in his rooms or in the caf?" he
                        inquired at the desk.
                    "In the caf, Mr. Zimmerlein."
                    "Thanks."
                    Fifteen minutes later, he sauntered up to a table at which a party of seven
                        or eight people were seated. Nodding and smiling in his most amiable manner
                        to the ladies, he laid his hand on the shoulder of one of the men.
                    "Sorry, old man, but they didn't give me your  message. I should have been sitting on the
                        doorstep waiting for you, if I'd known you really wanted me. Thanks
                        for calling me up again. It was good of you, and I'll try to make
                        up for all the lost time and trouble by being as agreeable as I know how to
                        be." He added an encircling smile. The ladies appeared to cheer up
                        measurably.
                    The man addressed, a huge individual with a tremendous expanse of white shirt
                        front, betrayed not the slightest sign of surprise or confusion. With all
                        the profound affability of a far-Westerner, he made the newcomer welcome. If
                        his steel-grey eyes bored inquiringly into Zimmerlein's for the
                        briefest instant, no one else at the table was aware of the fact. Nor did
                        any one observe the warning that shot back from the narrowing eyes of the
                        belated guest.
                    A waiter produced a chair for Zimmerlein, and placed it between two of the
                        ladies, who, with evident eagerness, made room for him. His smile deepened
                        as he shook his head, affecting dismay.
                    "Not yet, but soon," he pleaded. "I ran  across an old friend of yours out in the
                        lobby, Prince. Stillwell. I told him you'd be happy to have him
                        join you, but as he's just off the train, he says he's
                        filthy."
                    "Where is he?" cried Prince, starting up. "I
                        wouldn't miss seeing him for anything in the world. An old pal of
                        mine in Japan," he explained to his guests.
                    "If you will excuse us both, we'll" began
                        Zimmerlein apologetically.
                    "Come along," interrupted Prince, grabbing the
                        other's arm. "Good old Still! We'll bring him
                        back with us if we have to drag him in. You'll love him," he added boisterously.
                    The two men hurried from the caf. They did not speak until they reached a
                        deserted corner of the hotel lobby.
                    "What's up?" demanded Prince.
                    "I've just had some damnably disturbing news. It's
                        pretty bad, but I think I've got word to the right people in time
                        to head offtrouble. I was just going to bed when I was called up on the
                        'phone. By God, he's cool-headed, I'll say that
                        for him. Said he was you, and wanted to 
                        
                            THEY DID NOT SPEAK UNTIL THEY REACHED A DESERTED CORNER
                                    OF THE HOTEL LOBBY
                            
                        
                         know why the devil I hadn't showed up
                        over here. I was wise in a second. We met in the most casual manner at the
                        corner. He will go a long way, that chap will, mark my words. He's
                        as keen as a fox and as resolute as the devil. I can't explain
                        here, Prince. We must get back to your party. My alibi lies there, you know,
                        if I should happen to need it. You understand, don't you?"
                    "Certainly. I knew something was in the wind. Is it serious? Tell me
                        that."
                    "It can be serious,desperately serious. But we
                        can't do anything now. At one o'clock I shall ask you to
                        excuse me, Prince. Engagement very early in the morning. Much-needed
                        rest,and so on. And, by the way, we were unable to locate Folwell.
                        He"
                    "Stillwell, wasn't it?"
                    "So it was. 'Gad, my nerves must be shot up worse than I
                        thought. At any rate, he had vanished."
                    "Have you managed to get in touch with any one else?"
                    "I've sent word toJehovah!" Zimmerlein  permitted himself what was meant to be a
                        smile, but was instead an ugly grin.
                    "About the only name that's safe to utter in these
                        days," said Prince, looking over his shoulder.
                    "You've done your bit tonight, my friend, by simply being
                        who and what and where you are. Nothing more is required of you."
                    "I'm not asking questions," said Prince, scowling.
                    "You have asked one," snapped Zimmerlein.
                        "Oh, Lord! Haven't I a right to"
                    "There is nothing more to be said on the subject," said the
                        other, fixing the big man with a look that caused him to quail.
                        "You know as well as I just what our law is, Prince. I am not above
                        it,nor are you. Now, let us return."
                    Shortly after one o'clock, Zimmerlein said good night to the host
                        and the guests upon whom he had deliberately imposed himself, and went forth
                        into the night. A short distance down the street, he was hailed by a lone
                        taxi-driver, who called out in the laconic, perfunctory manner of his kind:
                    
                    "Taxi?"
                    Zimmerlein walked on a few paces, and then, apparently reconsidering, turned
                        back.
                    "Take me to the Pennsylvania," he said, and got into the
                        cab.
                    When he took his seat, it was between two men who slunk down in the corners
                        and kept their faces and bodies well out of sight from the occupants of
                        passing cars and pedestrians on the sidewalk.
                    An unusual amount of clatter attended the getting under way of the car. The
                        exhaust roared, the gears grated and snarled, and the loose links of
                        tire-chains banged resoundingly against the mud-guards.
                    A quarter of an hour elapsed. Zimmerlein did most of the talking. Then, as
                        the taxi drew up in front of the little hotel in the cross-town street, he
                        got down and handed the driver a bank-note. His last words, before leaving
                        the car, were:
                    "Remember, now. There must be no mistake, no slip-up. Be dead sure
                        before you do a thing. He is to disappear,that's all. There  must be no trace,absolutely no
                        trace."
                    As he sauntered into the hotel, the taxi rattled swiftly off in the direction
                        of Broadway, its remaining occupants silent and white-faced, but with lips
                        and jaws rigidly set.
                    "No complaint after all, Rogers," said he to the night
                        clerk, rather jauntily. "My friend confessed that he
                        hadn't called me up at all. It was his nice little way of stringing
                        me. Assuage the poor girl's grief if you know how, Rogers. Tell her
                        it's all right, and she can sleep soundly at the switch. Also, be
                        good enough to say to her that I apologize for myself and for my
                        friend."
                    Rogers watched him enter the elevator, and once more strolled back to the
                        switchboard.
                    "Hey! Wake up. Zimmerlein's just come in. He's
                        stewed and says his friend's a liar. There won't be any
                        court-martial."
                    The girl yawned. "Say, has that darned old clock stopped, or is it
                        still only ten minutes of two? It's been that for an hour. Never
                        again for me. Next time Pilcher wants to get off till  half-past 'leven, he needn't leave a call for
                        me. I'm through accommodating that mutt. My Gawd! Two
                        o'clock, and he swore he'd be here by eleven. I ought to
                        report him. Do a guy like that a favour and he What was that you said about
                        old Zim-zim? D'you say he was soused?"
                    "No. I said stewed. He's carryin' an egg on an
                        oyster fork. I never saw him drunk before."
                    At his usual hour for breakfasting, Mr. Zimmerlein briskly entered the
                        dining-room the next morning and seated himself at his customary table near
                        the window. Two morning newspapers lay beside his plate of sliced oranges.
                        His eyes swept the headlines on the front page. A slight frown darkened his
                        brow. He looked again, a little more closely. Then he took up the other
                        paper. A certain eagerness that had been in his eyes when he sat down gave
                        way to something bordering on astonishment. His interest passed quickly to
                        the second, third and fourth pages.
                    
                    There wasn't a line,not a solitary line about the sinking of the Elston!
                    
                    He had encountered Elberon late in the afternoon of the preceding day. He was
                        going into the club as the other came out.
                    "You will read something great in the morning papers,"
                        Elberson had said guardedly. "Perhaps in the extras
                        tonight."
                    "I am always reading something great in the newspapers," he
                        had replied.
                    "They got the Elston. Report came about two
                        o'clock. No details. I doubt whether it is known in Washington
                        yet."
                    But the morning papers had no account of the sinking. Not a word. What did it
                        mean? Could it be possible that their news travelled so
                        much faster than that obtained by the eager, avid Press? Were they even
                        ahead of Washington? Elberon was in a position to know. He never went off
                        half-cocked. There wasn't the least doubt in Zimmerlein's
                        mind that the Elston had been sunk,but why this amazing
                        failure of the newspapers to He started suddenly. Comprehension flooded his
                        brain. His  eyes lighted up again. He
                        understood in a flash. Suppressed! The news of the destruction of the Elston with all those vitally important men on board, Why,
                        of course! It had to be suppressed!
                    Nevertheless, he decided to drop in and see Elberon on his way down town.
                    As for last night's business, if it came to a head at all, it was
                        after the papers had gone to press. Still, he took the time to run through
                        both papers with unusual thoroughness. It was barely possible that a
                        paragraph,one of those widely spaced paragraphs that always exact
                        attention,might have stopped the presses at the last minute.
                    He slid indifferently over the account of a disastrous fire along the
                        water-front of an American port from which heavily laden ships departed
                        almost daily for French and English destinations. He knew all about that.
                    Elberon was not at his place of business. This defection on the part of
                        Elberon exasperated him. It was a new sensation. He could not account for
                        the sudden and admittedly unreasonable  sense
                        of irritation that assailed him, for, after all, Elberon regulated his
                        actions according to the demands of his own business. The
                        merchant's secretary announced that he doubted if his employer
                        would be in the office before noon. He thought he had gone Christmas
                        shopping with his wife.
                    "Damn Christmas!" muttered Zimmerlein as he closed the door
                        behind him and stalked off into the counter-lined aisles that led by
                        rectangular turns to the street.
                    The business of the night just ended had got on his nerves. His hand shook a
                        little as he paused inside the doors to light a cigarette. It was a bad
                        "business"; there was no use trying to make light of it.
                    Miss Mildred Agnew welcomed him with a cheery "Good
                        morning," and the alert office-boy went her one better by adding
                        the information that it was "a fine day, sir."
                    "Any messages, Miss Agnew?" inquired Zimmerlein.
                    "A telephone call, sir, from the steward of the Black Downs Country
                        Club. He says there  is a leak and wants to
                        know if you, as chairman of the house committee, will do something about it
                        right away."
                    "A leak?" he demanded, stopping short.
                    "So he said, Mr. Zimmerlein."
                    "Get him on the telephone and ask him to come in and see me at
                        once."
                    He was frowning darkly as the office-boy relieved him of his hat and coat and
                        hung them up in the closet. His mail received scant attention. As a matter
                        of fact, he swept the pile aside and touched a button on the corner of the
                        desk.
                    Thorsensel came into the private office, carrying a roll of blue-prints.
                    "Any word?" asked Zimmerlein, as the other carefully and
                        deliberately spread the prints on the desk and weighted one end of them down
                        with a heavy steel ruler.
                    "No. Not a word."
                    "It'sit's rather queer, don't you
                        think?"
                    "You are nervous, Zimmerlein," said Thorsensel, after a
                        moment in which he studied the other with a keen and soul-searching eye.
                        "It won't do, my friend. Nervousness tends to irritation,
                             and irritation leads to impatience. You
                        know what happens to the impatient, Zimmerlein."
                    "Damn it all, I am nervous. I admit it.
                        Don't lecture me. I'm not going to lose my grit,or my head
                        either."
                    "You can't lose one without the other, you know,"
                        remarked Thorsensel sententiously.
                    "What do you suppose has happened?"
                    "Nothing,nothing at all," said the other.
                    "You mean thatthat they didn't pull it off? God, that is
                        the very worst that could have happened."
                    "That is exactly what I mean. You need not worry, however. Trust
                        Scarf to play it safe. If he saw that there was the slightest chance of
                        failure, he would have taken no risk. That's Scarf, my friend. Calm
                        yourself. We will hear from him before noon. He will have worked out another
                        plan, you may be sure."
                    It may be mentioned here and now that Zimmerlein had consulted Thorsenselthe
                        mastermind,before taking a step in the affair of the night just past. He had
                        gone directly from his  hotel to the little
                        French caf down the street. He knew that it was the unvarying habit of the
                        strange, silent engineer to drop in at this quaint place for a bite of
                        something to eat and a bottle of red wine at midnight. Thorsensel never
                        missed doing this. There was method in his continence.
                    A big and vital problem confronted Zimmerlein. He did not dare act without
                        consulting his pseudo-subordinate. Thorsensel took the matter out of his
                        hands. It was he who laid the plans. Zimmerlein became merely an instrument,
                        with certain functions to perform, and nothing more.
                    "I hope you are right," said Zimmerlein, absorbing some of
                        the other's fatalistic assurance. "God help us if you are
                        wrong."
                    "My dear man, God helps us because we are right, not because we are
                        wrong," said Thorsensel, laying his big, clenched fist upon the
                        desk,not violently but with a gentleness that suggested vast strength held
                        under control by the power of a vaster will.
                    Zimmerlein drew a long, deep breath.
                    
                    "You've heard about the Elston, I
                        suppose?"
                    "Yes. They got her. I knew they would. That was the greatest tip
                        we've ever had. Our report is that not one of the big bugs on board
                        was saved. A number of the crew got off in boats, but they had to hurry. She
                        went down in eight minutes. They made a good job of it, bless 'em.
                        No wonder the night wind weeps! Now, we'll see what old England has
                        to say for the invincibility of her fleet, and what she'll say to
                        the United States for letting the cat out of the bag." He laughed
                        aloud,for the first time in the memory of Zimmerlein. Several of the men in
                        the drafting-room looked up. They stared unblinkingly at the laugher.
                    The forenoon wore away. Thorsensel shuttled between the drafting-room and the
                        private office. He no longer laughed. The pleased, confident look had left
                        his eyes; in its stead lurked something that finally developed into real,
                        undisguised anxiety. An atmosphere of restraint settled down like a cloud
                        over the offices. The uneasiness of the two principal figures in the place
                        was acutely infectious.
                    
                    The report of Peter Hooge, the steward of the Black Downs Country Club, who
                        arrived shortly after noon, neither increased nor lessened the strain. He
                        was unnecessarily alarmed. What if secret service men did visit the
                        club-house and question the employs? That was not an unusual proceeding.
                        They were doing something of the sort all the time. But, said Peter, they
                        obtained a list of all the members and guests of the club present on the
                        premises at the time of the Reynolds explosion. Naturally, said both
                        Zimmerlein and Thorsensel: That was just what they would
                        do. Precious little good it would do them, however.
                    "I was obliged to show them my passports and papers from the Swiss
                        Government," said Peter.
                    "Well, they were all in order, weren't they?"
                    "Perfectly. That isn't the point. The mere fact that they
                        asked for them proves something, doesn't it?"
                    "You are too old a bird to be frightened by pop-guns,
                        Hooge," said Thorsensel, gnawing at his moustache. "These
                        fellows, from what I  know of them,
                        couldn't catch the scent of a polecat."
                    "I'm not so sure of that," put in Zimmerlein.
                        "They've landed some pretty big fish."
                    "They've landed a pack of blatant asses," snapped
                        Thorsensel. "Good God, man, you don't put Reistelen and
                        others of his stripe in the class withwell, with a few I could mention, do
                        you? They've only touched the surface, my friend. It is very
                        deep,very deep indeedwhere the big fishes lie. Go back to your work,
                        Hooge,and don't worry us again with trifles."
                    Late in the afternoon Scarf came in. He came as a stoop-shouldered,
                        consumptive-looking, unwashed-District Messenger of uncertain age and
                        stability.
                    "Well?" cried Zimmerlein, glaring at the man.
                    "Where in hell have you been?" grated Thorsensel.
                    "That's just where I have been," replied the
                        messenger, straightening his bent figure and drawing a long, full breath. He
                        passed his hand across his brow. "Or rather, I've been  close enough to get an unpleasant whiff of
                        it."
                    "Don't sit down!" exclaimed Zimmerlein, as the man
                        prepared to sink into a chair.
                    "I'm all in, I've got to," and down he
                        flopped. After a moment he leaned forward and fixed the others with burning,
                        bitter eyes. "In the first place, do you know what's
                        happened to Elberon?"
                    "No," fell in unison from the lips of the two men.
                    "Well, he's sitting up in the United States
                        Attorney's office with half a dozen experts trying to pump
                        intelligence out of him."
                    An imprecation ground its way out between Thorsensel's teeth.
                        Zimmerlein's lower lip tightened against his teeth.
                    "I had it from Zumpe. They went to Elberon's house early
                        this morning,on the quiet, of course,nothing for the public,and took him
                        down for a grilling. Zumpe says old Elberon has been getting pretty gabby
                        with one or two people who ought to be good Germans but
                        ain't."
                    
                    "The infernal fool! I have warned him repeatedly," snarled
                        Thorsensel. "He has been very thick lately with Kleinhans, the
                        banker. I told him to take no chances with that man. I mentioned a few
                        others too."
                    "Some of 'em are straight, eh?" queried Scarf, a
                        twist at the corner of his mouth that went for a sneer.
                    "Straight? No! Crooked as rattlesnakes! I wouldn't trust a
                        man like Kleinhans out of my sight. He actually thinks he's an
                        American,and God knows that makes him worse than one. Well? Go on. What
                        else?"
                    "That's all I know about Elberon. As for that other little
                        matter," He stopped to wet his lips.
                    Zimmerlein muttered hoarsely: "Little matter!"
                    "I'm lucky, that's all," said Scarf, and
                        again passed his hand over his brow.
                    "Get on with it. You can't stay here all
                        afternoon," commanded Thorsensel.
                    "We came within an ace of dropping into a pita bottomless pit at
                        that. Why didn't you  tell me that
                        secret service men were trailing him, Zimmerlein?"
                    "What? What's that you say?"
                    "Why, damn your eyes, Zimmerlein, that guy was suspected of giving
                        information to the enemy. He's been watched like a hawk. We got
                        onto it just in time. Don't you see what would have happened if
                        they had followed us to his room? You don't, eh? Well,
                        I'll tell you. We would have been nabbed with him,before anything
                        could have happened,caught in the very net they were laying for him. His pals, that's what they would have made of us,his
                        comrades, mind you, not his enemies. How the devil could we have explained?
                        And would they have believed him, no matter what he said about us? Not on
                        your life. The very thing they were watching for would have hampered. A
                        rendezvous! They would have had him dead to rights,delivering information
                        received earlier in the night to two German agents,oh, what a diabolical
                        joke it would have been on him, and what a devil of a mess we would have
                        been in! God, I shiver every time I think of it,  and I've been shivering all day, let me tell
                        you."
                    "Secret service men after him?" muttered
                        Thorsensel, incredulously. "What's the angle,
                        Zimmerlein,what's the angle? You are supposed to be on the inside
                        up there. What do you know about this?"
                    "I am completely in the dark. I can't understand it,
                        Thorsensel. Itare you sure, Scarf?"
                    "Absolutely. They got Blechter,yanked him off the taxi when he
                        stopped around in the next block, according to plans. He was to wait for us
                        there,fixing his engine as a blind, stalling for time. He put up a
                        fight,poor fool. They got him just the same."
                    "Will he squeal?" demanded Zimmerlein, pacing the floor.
                    "You ought to know. He's your protg," said Scarf
                        succinctly.
                    "Better dead than alive, I'd say," said Thorsensel
                        unfeelingly. "Go on."
                    "Well, from all I could learn, two of them waited outside the
                        building and two of 'em were insideI don't know just
                        where. I think one  of them was running the
                        front elevator. All I know is that Ruddy and I barely had time to get out of
                        the window and onto a little balcony and drop down to the one below, before
                        they smashed in the door. Twelve foot drop, too, and the balcony
                        wasn't more than three feet wide. If we'd
                        missedLord!"
                    "You were in his room?" cried Thorsensel.
                    "Sure. We got in through the building next door, sneaked up ten
                        flights of stairs to the top. Got out on the roof through the
                        'dog-house,' and dropped down to the other roof. Sort of
                        penthouse arrangement up there. Very simple after that. We had his apartment
                        pretty well marked. Ninth floor front. It's closed except when he
                        comes up occasionally from camp for a night or two. Family in the South
                        somewhere, servants dismissed. We didn't waste any time, Had it all
                        doped out. Went to his door and rang the bell. Pretty soon he came and
                        opened it and asked what we wanted. We told him right off the reel that we
                        were in the secret service and had to have a talk with him at once about a
                        certain party he knows. He told us to  go to
                        hell. Then I showed him my badge and mentioned a name that bowled him over.
                        He said: 'My God!' and drew back into the room. We went in
                        and closed the door.
                    "I asked him first if there was anybody in the apartmentanybody that
                        would be likely to hear our conversation. He said he was alone, his people
                        were out of town for the winter. Ruddy asked him point blank just what he
                        knew about a certain party,all of it. He came back with a question.
                        'Has there been an arrest?' 'Yes,' says
                        I. He sat down, limp as a rag. 'My God, it's
                        terriblehorrible,' he says. 'Who put you wise? How much is
                        actually known?' That was enough for Ruddy. He stuck the gun under
                        his ear and let him have it. He never knew what hit him. Ruddy dropped the
                        revolver on the floor beside the chair,just where he would have dropped it
                        himself,and then we started out to see if we could find anything in the
                        apartment that oughtn't to be lying around loose. I forgot to say
                        there was a Maxim silencer on the gun. We had just entered the first
                        bed-room when his  door bell rang. Two hearts
                        stopped beating right there and then. For a minute we were paralysed. Then
                        there was pounding on the door, and we heard some one say, 'Open
                        up, or we'll smash it in!'
                    "No use wasting time on minor details. After we got onto the balcony
                        below, we opened the French windows and sneaked into a big apartment,darker
                        than Egypt except when the light from a big electric sign down the street
                        flashed every few seconds. We got out into the hall without rousing anybody
                        and started down the stairs. Of course, we thought it was the elevator man
                        pounding on the door up there,he might have heard the muffled report if he
                        happened to be near that floor. God was with us. We got down to the ground
                        floor all right, but there we struck something worse than a stone wall. Two
                        men were standing right in front of the passenger elevator. We jumped behind
                        a curtain they have hanging there to hide the stairway. They didn't
                        hear us. They were talking about Blechter. We knew in a second what they
                        were.
                    
                    There was a cubby hole under the stairs where they keep mops and brooms and
                        such stuff. We got in there, leaving a crack through which we could hear.
                        After awhile the front elevator came down. We heard 'em all
                        talking. They said he had shot himself, and they cursed their luck because
                        they hadn't been able to take him alive. He must have been warned
                        that they were after him. That's what they were roaring about.
                        After a while we got out of the mop-hole and sneaked down to the basement.
                        The doors, were locked, and there were men in the engine rooma night fireman
                        and a friend of his who was drunk and had come in to sleep it off. Somebody
                        was walking up and down in the little court outside. We didn't dare
                        risk a dash for it, so we hid under a pile of last summer's awnings
                        for a couple of hours. When we couldn't stand it any longer, we
                        decided to put on a bold front and pass ourselves off as plain-clothes-men.
                        It was dead easy. The employs about the place were scared stiff. All we had
                        to do was to look hard at the head porter and 
                        the back elevator man, and tell 'em not to let anybody go near the
                        storeroom for apartment E 9,not on their lives. Here's the evening
                        paper. You can read what it says."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    
                        LOUISE HANSBURY did not go out for her customary
                        "constitutional" that morning. She arose, tired and
                        depressed after a sleepless night. Soon after she had her
                        breakfast,chocolate and toast and a prescribed porridge,she complained of a
                        sudden and violent nausea.
                    Mrs. Carstairs went in to see her, and was alarmed. She took the
                        girl's temperature and then called up the doctor.
                    "You have a fever," she said. "You must go back to
                        bed. It's nothing, I daresay, but we have to be on the safe side,
                        dear."
                    Louise betrayed her agitation. She pleaded to be allowed to dress and go out
                        for her walk. There were moments when actual fear lurked in her dark eyes.
                    "I will be all right in a little while, Aunt Frieda. Don't
                        be cross with me. I must have  eaten something
                        last night that disagreed with me. The lobster,I ate a tiny bit of
                        it."
                    "Very likely," said her aunt calmly. "All the more
                        reason for being careful today. No, my dear, I must insist on your remaining
                        in bed, at least until Dr. Browne has seen you."
                    "When is he coming?"
                    "The attendant said she could locate him and would send him here as
                        soon as possible. He is out making his calls."
                    "The chocolate tasted queerly this morning, Aunt Frieda,"
                        said the girl, feverishly.
                    "Imagination. Nothing tastes right when one's stomach is
                        upset."
                    "Oh, I want so much to get out for a breath of fresh air. It is a
                        perfectly lovely day. I am sure Dr. Browne will say it's the best
                        thing in the world"
                    "Dr. Browne doesn't know everything," interrupted
                        Mrs. Carstairs. She laid her hand on the girl's hot forehead.
                        "You must go back to bed,just for a little
                        while," she said, and there was an inexorableness in her tone that
                        roused swift resentment in Louise. A rebellious,  angry light smouldered in her eyes. "I know what is
                        best for you. If it should turn out to be ptomaine poisoning"
                    "It can't be ptomaine if it came from the chocolate I
                        drank," sad Louise, excitement causing her voice to tremble and to
                        take on a certain shrillness.
                    "I am confident it is all due to nervousness," said Mrs.
                        Carstairs. She spoke in a patient, consoling manner. "Dr. Browne
                        will give you something to straighten out your digestion, and you will be
                        all right by tomorrow. You are not strong yet, you know. Just be patient, my
                        dear. It takes time."
                    "I should like to telephone, Aunt Frieda," said the girl
                        abruptly. Submissive to the gentle but unyielding authority of the older
                        woman, who dominated as one with the power to scourge if resistance
                        continued, she had begun to divest herself, rather helplessly, of the gay
                        peignoir in which, she had breakfasted. With feverish haste, she slipped her
                        arms through the loose folds, and faced her aunt. There was defiance in her
                        glance. For an instant it held.
                    
                    The calm smile and the tolerant shake of the head, as to a pleading child,
                        shattered her resolve; she saw that argument was useless. The robe fell from
                        her shoulders as she turned away with a sob in her throat.
                    "Is it important?" inquired the older woman.
                    "Ithis afternoon will do as well, I suppose," replied the
                        girl, without turning her head.
                    "Let me call up for you, dear. It is no trouble at all. I can
                        explain that you are ill."
                    "No, thank you, Aunt Frieda. Itit doesn't matter."
                    She hesitated about confiding to Mrs. Carstairs that she was going out to
                        meet her lover. Something told her that it would be the wrong thing to
                        do,something that for want of another name would have to go as cunning. She
                        shared a vague, disturbing secret with Steele. ...
                    Mrs. Carstairs tucked the bedclothes about her.
                    "The doctor will be here soon, I am sure,"  she said. "Do you feel any better?
                        Are you more comfortable?"
                    "I am in no pain,if that's what you mean. Just this
                        wretched nausea. What do the morning papers say about the loss of the Elston, Aunt Frieda?"
                    "Nothing, I believe. Your uncle says there was no mention of it. I
                        daresay the news has been held up for the time being. Waiting for full
                        details. Wasn't it fortunate,wasn't it providential that
                        the transfer to the Campion was so cleverly
                        accomplished?"
                    A maid-servant came to the door.
                    "You are wanted on the telephone, Mrs. Carstairs. Shall I say you
                        are engaged?"
                    "Who is it, Wrenn?"
                    "A gentleman. I couldn't catch the name, Mrs.
                        Carstairs."
                    "I will see who it is."
                    After she had closed Louise's door behind her, Frieda Carstairs
                        stood stockstill in the long corridor. She put her hand to her breast and
                        held it there lightly, as if to transmit its vital strength to the organ
                        which pounded so violently.  Her tall figure
                        was tense; her face took on the pallor of death and its rigidity. For as
                        long as fifteen or twenty seconds, she remained motionless. Then her lips
                        moved stiffly; they twitched as in a spasm of pain. The two words they
                        formed but did not utter were:
                    "Poor girl!"
                    Once, as she covered the short distance to her own sitting-room, her figure
                        swayed slightly. She even put out a, hand to steady herself against the
                        wall,a needless precaution, for she instantly regained command of herself.
                    She closed the door, and, before taking up the receiver, threw in the device
                        which cut out the instrument from other extensions in the apartment,those in
                        the butler's pantry, her husband's study, and the one that
                        stood on the night-table at the head of his bed. Her knees suddenly became
                        weak; they trembled as with the palsy. She sat down at the writing table and
                        dropped her elbow heavily on the top. Again she feared that she was going to
                        faint.
                    "Yes?" she murmured thickly into the transmitter, and,
                        instantly realizing that her voice  betrayed
                        nervousness and even alarm, repeated the word firmly, crisply.
                        "Yes,this is Mrs. Carstairs."
                    "I am speaking for the Evening" (the name
                        of the newspaper was indistinctly pronounced)"and I called up, Mrs.
                        Carstairs, to ask if it is true that Captain Derrol Steele was engaged to be
                        married to your niece, Miss Louise Hansbury?"
                    She did not reply. Her lips parted but no sound issued forth.
                    Again the voice spoke in her ear. "Are you there?"
                    The "yes" she uttered in reply was little more than a
                        hoarse gasp. And then: "I hear you quite distinctly."
                        There was a click at the other end. Slowly, as in a daze, she hung up the
                        receiver. Not another word passed.
                    She did not leave the apartment that day, but spent most of the time with her
                        niece, whose indisposition was promptly diagnosed as an acute attack of
                        indigestion by the learned and complacent physician, who dosed her and went
                        his way. He ordered her to remain in bed; he 
                        would run in and see her in the morning. If anything, ah!a alarming turned
                        up, he murmured to Mrs. Carstairs, she was to call him at once. Not likely,
                        of course, said he, nothing to be apprehensive about, butwell, you never can
                        tell. Resistance not yet fully restored,and, "after all, as
                        I've said all along, Mrs. Carstairs, one's own resistance
                        is the best chemistry going, and one has to fill his own prescription when
                        it comes to that sort of thing, don't you know."
                    Being a very fashionable doctor he gave her pyromedan to bring down the
                        temperature in a hurry, and codeine to quiet the pain.
                    Davenport Carstairs seldom reached his home before six or half-past. It was
                        his custom,if business happened to be indulgent,to drop in at his favourite
                        club about four in the afternoon. On this afternoon, however, he drove
                        straight home from the office. The clock in the hall was striking four as he
                        entered the apartment. The afternoon newspapers were under his arm,four or
                        five of them.
                    
                    "Has Mrs. Carstairs come In, Hollowell?" he asked.
                    "Mrs. Carstairs did not go out today, sir. Miss Hansbury is
                        ill."
                    Ordinarily Carstairs would have been disturbed by this information. He had
                        been gravely worried over his niece's condition.
                        Hollowell's supplementary statement, however, appeared to have
                        fallen on deaf ears.
                    "Say that I'm home, Hollowell, and in my room."
                    "Very good, sir. Is there anything I can do, sir?"
                    "Do? What do you mean?"
                    "I thought perhaps you might be ill, sir. I"
                    "Not at all, not at all," somewhat irascibly. "Ask
                        Mrs. Carstairs to come to my room Wait! Have you had any news here
                        today?"
                    "No, sir,nothink as I am aware of, sir."
                    "Noercommotion?"
                    "I think not, sir. It isn't serious. Sort of ahwhat you
                        might call stomachahalthough  cook says it
                        can't have been anything she ate last"
                    "By the way, what made you think I was ill?"
                    "Well,since you ask, sir,you do look a bit seedy, sir,that is to say
                        pale and"
                    "I wish to see Mrs. Carstairs alone. Please avoid mentioning my
                        return in Miss Hansbury's presence."
                    He went at once to his study, where, moved by the remark of the butler, he
                        stared long and hard at his features in a mirror. His face was ashen grey,
                        and suddenly, strangely old.
                    He had tossed the newspapers on the rare old Italian table in the centre of
                        the room. After a few moments of complete abstraction, his dull, frowning
                        gaze was raised from the floor to sweep the room,which, for some strange,
                        almost uncanny cause, seemed almost unfamiliar to him. And yet it was the
                        same,nothing had been changed. Only he had alteredhis own perspective had
                        undergone a vast, incomprehensible change. His eyes falling upon the papers,
                        he took them up, one by one, and stared  again
                        at a certain headline in each,a raw caption that fascinated, him and hurt
                        him like the cut of a knife.
                    It did not occur to him until long afterwards, and then only in retrospective
                        contemplation of events that filled the most important day in his life, that
                        his wife was a long time in appearing. She came into the study at last, and,
                        as was her unvarying custom, pressed her lips to his cheek. He noticed that
                        her lips, always moist and soft and alive, were hot and dry and as dead as
                        parchment. Before he spoke a word to her, he crossed the room and closed the
                        door into the hall.
                    She was staring at him in amazement as he turned toward her again.
                    "What has happened, Davenport? Youyou look so strange,so Oh,
                        something dreadful has happened! Is itis it Alfred? Tell me! For
                        God's sake, don't"
                    "It isn't Alfred, my dear," said he. There was a
                        dull, hollow note in his voice,a note that held to one key. "Where
                        is Louise?"
                    "In bed. She hasn't been well"
                    
                    "We must manage somehow to break this thing gently to her. It
                        mightthere is no telling what it may do to her, Frieda."
                    She steadied herself against the table. Her face now was as white as his. It
                        had been pale before; now it was livid.
                    "What is it, Davenport?"
                    He looked searchingly, anxiously into her eyes for a moment, and then said:
                        "It will be a shock to you too, Frieda,-but I know you. You can
                        take it like a soldier. Derrol Steele shot himself last night. He is dead.
                        He There, there, dearest! I shouldn't have blurted it out likesit
                        down here, Frieda! That's right! Poor old girl! Curse me for a
                        blundering fool! I might have known it would be a dreadful shock to you. You
                        were devoted to him. He"
                    "Tell me,tell me everything, Davenport," she broke in, her
                        eyes fixed on his lips. She did not look into his eyes. He was leaning over
                        her, clasping one of her hands,a hand that suddenly became limp after the
                        utmost rigidity.
                    "Just a moment. Compose yourself. Pull  yourself together, dear. It'sit's a cruel storyan
                        incredible story. I would have staked my soul on Derrol Steele.
                        I've known him since he was a little boy. If I had been asked to
                        name the most honourable, the most loyal man in thebut, Frieda, I was wrongI
                        was deceived in him,just as you wereand Louise. Louise! God, how this will
                        crush that poor, innocent, loving"
                    "Tell me!" she insisted, her fingers tightening on his, her
                        voice scarcely more than a whisper.
                    For answer, he placed the newspaper in her hands, and pointed to the headline
                        at the top of the page.
                    "Read it, Frieda. Read this first."
                    He sat on the edge of the table, his arms folded across his breast, and
                        waited for her to finish. At last the paper fell from her fingers and she
                        looked up into his face. Her eyes were bleak.
                    "I can't believe it, Davenport,I will not believe it of
                        Derrol Steele."
                    "As soon as I saw the paper,about two 
                        o'clock, I should say,I hurried over to the United States
                        Attorney's office. The story is true, Frieda. It appears that a
                        secret service agent-'gad, how marvellous they are!an agent
                        overheard scraps of a conversation between two men late last night,in front
                        of a little French restaurant, I think it was. Steele's name was
                        mentioned two or three times. He was not interested, however, until he heard
                        them speak of a man long suspected by the department. Then he pricked up his
                        ears. The marshal did not repeat the name, for obvious reasons. The man
                        heard enough to convince him that this suspect and one or two other men were
                        to be at Steele's apartment before three o'clock this
                        morning. The address was carefully, precisely given by one of the men, who
                        was very greatly agitated. Captain Steele had vital information in his
                        possession,that much, at least, the listener was able to grasp. One sentence
                        he heard distinctly. I recall it clearly. 'Tomorrow will be too
                        late.' This was enough for the agent. He was too clever to arrest
                        these men on the spot. The way was  clear for
                        the seizure of at least four or five men, including an officer in the United
                        States Army. So heare you listening, dear?"
                    "Yes, yes!" she replied, as if waking from a dream.
                    "This agent had been set there to watch for a man and a woman,
                        posing as French people, who are under surveillance. As soon as the speakers
                        parted, he rushed up the street to an hotel, and called up headquarters.
                        This was too big a thing to be sidetracked for the French couple. Several
                        operatives were dispatched immediately to assist him. They went to the
                        building where Derrol livesor lived. They seized the driver of the taxi-cab,
                        but the others evidently got wind of the raid, for when they went up to
                        Steele's apartment, hoping to catch them in the place with him,
                        they found him alone. He had slipped a bath gown over his pajamas and was
                        undoubtedly waiting for his fellow-conspirators. He realized in an instant
                        that he was trapped. They smashed in the door. While the violent noise was
                        going on, he shot himself. They did not hear the report,  however, due to the clatter and to the fact
                        that there was a silencer on the revolver. There was the faintest sign of a
                        pulse, indicating that the shot had been fired only a minute or two before
                        they burst in and discovered him sitting in a chair not twenty feet from the
                        door."
                    The tears rolled down the cheeks of Davenport Carstairs. His voice broke.
                    "I can't believe it of him, Frieda,I can't believe
                        it."
                    Her face was ghastly. "We have the proof, Davenport,the indisputable
                        proof," she murmured.
                    "The proof? What proof have we?"
                    "The best proof in the world. He shot himself. Only a guilty man
                        would have taken his own life in the circumstances. Wewe must believe it of
                        him, Davenport. That poor, sick girl! How are we to tell her?"
                    Of the two, she was now by far the more composed. Except for the colourless
                        lips and an almost lavender-like hue that stole slowly into her cheeks just
                        below the temples, indicative of the vast effort she had been called upon to
                        exert  in order to regain command of her
                        nerves, she was visibly calm and self-contained. Her husband had sunk
                        dejectedly into a chair. For many minutes no word passed between them. It
                        was she who spoke first.
                    "You say they caught one of the menone of the others, I
                        mean?" she inquired.
                    "The taxi-driver."
                    Her lips parted to form another question. She withheld it. With her
                        handkerchief she wiped away the moisture that suddenly appeared at the
                        corners of her mouthoozing from between close-pressed lips.
                    She read the accounts in the other papers, her face absolutely emotionless.
                        After a while he looked up, and, unobserved, watched her face.
                    "You are a very wonderful woman, Frieda," he said as she
                        laid the last of the papers on the table. Her answer was a faint smile and a
                        shake of the head.
                    She arose and started resolutely toward the door. As she neared it, she
                        faltered, and then turned back to him.
                    "Davenport, I have Just had a most disturbing  thought. It also may have occurred to you. Derrol Steele was a
                        trusted and familiar guest in this house. He heard many important,let me go
                        on, please,I can see revulsion in your eyes. Whether we like it or not, we
                        must look at it squarely from every point of view. Last night, for example,
                        he heard the Admiral; he heard what the Countess had to say about the
                        Italian situation. Going farther back, you yourself spoke in his presence of
                        the sailing of the Elston with all those men on
                        board."
                    "I see what is in your mind, Frieda," he said slowly.
                        "You mean we may be dragged into it?"
                    "Not at all," she said rather sharply. "We need
                        not be drawn into it in the slightest degree unless we volunteer information
                        that concerns no one but ourselves. Why should any one know that he came
                        into possession of facts here in our home?"
                    "Such things are bound to leak out, my dear. The investigation will
                        be thorough. They will go to the bottom of this. Of course, I can manage it
                        so that we sha'n't come in for any publicity, but we
                        can't escape questioning."
                    
                    "And are we to admit that we discussed these very grave and
                        important matters in his presence?"
                    "We are to tell the truth, Frieda. You should not forget that we
                        spoke of them in the presence of an officer in the United States
                        Army."
                    After a moment she said: "I daresay you are right, Davenport. You
                        are always right. I was only thinking that in view of the fact that there is
                        no proof against him except the few words overheard by that man in front of
                        the cafe,well, it is possible, don't you see, that there may have
                        been some horrid, appalling mistake. They have no other proof,unless the
                        United States Attorney withheld something from you."
                    "They have the best proof in the world. He shot himself, as you have
                        said."
                    She half closed her eyes. A queer little spasm twisted her lips apart.
                    "Yes," she said unsteadily, "yes, he shot
                        himself."
                    Her hand was on the door-knob.
                    
                    "Are you going in to tell her now, Frieda?"
                    "I must have a little time,just a little, dear. I am more shaken
                        than you think. I must have time to collect myself. It will be very
                        difficult, Davenport. Stay here. Do not come unless I call to you."
                    "I leave it all to you, Frieda,God bless you and God give you
                        strength."
                    The door closed behind her. He sat motionless for a long time, wondering
                        whether he could hear her call to him with that door and doubtless, another
                        intervening. Strange that she should have closed it. He would wait a little
                        while,a few minutes only,and then he would open it andlisten.
                    She went straight to her own room. ... Presently she lifted the telephone
                        receiver from the hook. The next moment she replaced it, but did not release
                        it from her tense fingers.
                    She sat rigid, staring at the instrument, resolve and indecision struggling
                        for mastery. At last she pushed the instrument away and sank back in the
                        chair as if exhausted.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    
                        THE doctor arrived at eight. He could not afford to
                        disregard the summons of such a man as Davenport Carstairs. So he told his
                        wife to go on to the Opera without him; he would join her as soon as
                        possible,in fact, it might be possible to get there before the overture was
                        ended, or, at the very latest, soon after the curtain went up. Make his
                        apologies, and all that. This was an urgent case.
                    Close on his heels came two men to see Mr. Carstairs. ...
                    Miss Hansbury was in a pitiable condition. For the better part of two hours,
                        Frieda Carstairs had been with her. Every one else, not excepting her uncle,
                        was denied admission to the room. From time to time, the sound of voices
                        came through the closed door,one shrill and rising to the pitch of frenzy,
                        the other firm, gentle, soothingone that seemed to croon. A sharp-eared
                        listener outside would have caught  an
                        occasional sentence wailed in the despairing treble, but he would have made
                        little of it, for it dwindled away into a smothered, inarticulate jumble of
                        words. He might have distinguished the oft-repeated cry:
                    "You know it isn't true! You know it! You know
                        it!"
                    Carstairs grasped the doctor's arm the instant he entered the
                        apartment.
                    "For God's sake, Doctor, give her something to quiet her
                        immediately. II cannot endure it. We should have waited. I had no idea it
                        would be like this. Mrs. Carstairs hasn't left her for an instant.
                        I can hear her moaning and"
                    "Is it thisahnews about young Steele?" inquired the doctor
                        blandly. He rubbed his hands.
                    "Yesyes! We thought it best to tell her before she got it from the
                        servants, or the papers, or"
                    "Dreadful affair,most shocking. I knew him very slightly, but he
                        seemed a most delightful chap. By Jove, it is really distressing, the  way the Germans have undermined our
                        very"
                    "She is in a most deplorable condition, Doctor. Don't delay
                        an instant, please,and do not leave her until you are convinced there is no
                        danger of" He broke off abruptly.
                    "Ahem! Yes, yes,ah,I'll remain as long asah,I feel the
                        least bit uneasy about her."
                    "All right, Doctor,if there is the remotest danger of"
                    "Oh, I fancy there isn't any real danger of that, Mr. Carstairs. Compose yourself. We'll have her
                        sleeping like a baby in no time at all. Had you an inkling that Steele was
                        that sort of a"
                    "And will you please send Mrs. Carstairs out of the room at
                        once?"
                    "Yes, yes,immediately. Leave it to me, leave it to me," and
                        off he went, with a sprightliness that would have surprised his dignity if
                        he had had the slightest notion at that moment that he still possessed such
                        a thing.
                    But Mrs. Carstairs refused to be sent out of the room. She remained steadfast
                        at the girl's side, holding and stroking her hand.
                    
                    "I cannot,I will not leave her, Doctor Browne," she said,
                        compressing her lips.
                    The butler apologetically stuck his head into Mr. Carstairs' study a
                        few minutes after the doctor's arrival.
                    "Sorry, sir, but there's two gentlemen asking to see
                        you."
                    "I told you I was not at home to any one, Hollowell. Is it necessary
                        for me to repeat your instructions?"
                    "No, sir,thank you, sir. But these gentlemen say they must see you,
                        sir. They are outside, sir,in the hall. I asked"
                    "Who are they? What is their business?"
                    "I asked both those questions, sir," said the butler, in
                        evident distress.
                    "Yes, yes,well, and what did they say?"
                    "They simply said 'Never mind,'" said
                        Hollowell, with a great deal of feeling.
                    Carstairs stopped suddenly in his tracks.
                    "I thought you said they were gentlemen."
                    His brow darkened. He had sensed the truth. Secret service men.
                    "My mistake, sir,my mistake," mumbled  Hollowell, "Ahem! I can only add, Mr. Carstairs, that
                        they seem to think you are at home, andall"
                    "Conduct them to this room," said Carstairs. A few minutes
                        later: "Come in, gentlemen, and be seated. I suppose you are here
                        to ascertain if I can throw any light on the Derrol Steele affair. It is no
                        secret, of course, that he was my niece's fiance, and that he was a
                        constant visitor here. I am afraid, however, that I can be of no assistance
                        to you. Captain Steele"
                    "Pardon me, Mr. Carstairs," said one of his visitors, a
                        sharp-eyed, clean-cut man of forty, "but, as a matter of fact, our
                        business here is really with Mrs. Carstairs. Will you be good enough to ask
                        her to step into this room?"
                    His companion had closed the door, and both remained standing.
                    "I assure you she knows as little as I do about this distressing
                        affair. My niece is very ill. She cannot leave her. You must allow me,for
                        the present, at least,to speak for Mrs. Carstairs."
                    
                    "Deeply as I regret it, Mr. Carstairs, I must insist that your
                        wife"
                    "You heard what I said, didn't you?" demanded
                        Carstairs coldly. Two vivid red blotches shot into his cheeks.
                    The two men looked at each other. Then the spokesman gave a significant jerk
                        of his head. His companion opened the door and stepped quickly into the
                        hall. As the door closed, the one who remained drew nearer to Carstairs.
                    "In the first place, Mr. Carstairs, you cannot speak for your wife.
                        I am not here to make inquiries, sir, but to escort her to the offices of
                        the United States Attorney, who will"
                    Carstairs started up from his chair. "What Infernal nonsense is
                        this?"
                    "I am afraid it isn't nonsense," said the other
                        quietly. "My instructions,my orders, I may say,are to confront Mrs.
                        Carstairs with certain charges, in your presence, by the way, and to remain
                        in this apartment until further orders. There is no alternative."
                    "Charges?" gasped Davenport Carstairs, incredulously.  "What do you mean? What charges have
                        been brought against us?"
                    "There is nothing against you, sir. I am
                        instructed to exercise the greatest consideration for you. A great deal, I
                        may add, is left to my discretion, after all. Your wife, I am compelled to
                        inform you, is charged with a very serious offence. In plain words, we have
                        indisputable proof that she is and has been for several years in direct
                        communication with the German Government through"
                    "It is a damned, outrageous lie!" shouted Carstairs,
                        furiously. "How dare you come here"
                    "Just a moment, please," interrupted the other sharply.
                        "My instructions are to treat you with the utmost respect and
                        consideration. I must ask you to accord me the same treatment. Will you send
                        for your wife, or must I resort to the authority that"
                    "For God's sake, man,wait! Let me get this thing through my
                        head. IIwill try to control myself. There has been some terrible mistake.
                        Let us discuss the matter calmly. I  can
                        explain everything. We must spare her the mortification, the humiliation of
                        beingWhy, my dear sir, it wouldkill her. She would not survive the"
                    The agent held up his hand. "There is no mistake. It may be possible
                        to spare her the disgrace, the ignominy of public exposure. That, sir, rests
                        with herand with you. We recognize your position, Mr. Carstairs. There is a
                        disposition on the part of the authorities to protect you. With that object
                        in view, I am instructed to grant Mrs. Carstairs the privilege of remaining
                        in her own room until tomorrow morning. We are to take no definite action
                        tonight, unless, of course, you and she decide that it is best for her to
                        accompany me to theerto headquarters. It is up to you and Mrs. Carstairs,
                        sir."
                    Davenport Carstairs was a strong, virile character. He possessed the
                        arrogance born of power and a confidence in himself that had never been
                        shaken. His home was his stronghold, his wife its treasure. In his serene
                        strength he could not conceive of discredit falling  upon either. Instead of faltering, now that the first shock
                        had been weathered, he drew himself up and faced the situation with a
                        courage that excited the wonder and admiration of the man who came with evil
                        tidings.
                    "Be seated," said he, indicating a chair. The man sat down.
                        "You may be partially if not entirely ignorant of the nature of
                        these charges. Am I right in assuming that you are not at liberty to discuss
                        them with me?"
                    "On the contrary, Mr. Carstairs, I have been advised to do nothing
                        until I have talked the matter over with you. I am in possession of all the
                        facts."
                    "Is the department content to allow me to pass judgment on my
                        wife?" inquired Carstairs, with a touch of irony. He maintained a
                        calm exterior,-at what cost no one but he will ever know. The secret service
                        man made no response. "In any case, I shall have to ask you to
                        explain everything to me before permitting you to approach my
                        wife."
                    The agent, who shall be called Jones, nodded his head, and then leaned
                        forward in his chair.
                    
                    "A man named Hodges was in your employ as a butler up to a fortnight
                        ago. He had worked for you exactly seven weeks and one day. Do you know
                        where he came from and who he really was, Mr. Carstairs?"
                    "No. Mrs. Carstairs engages the servants here. Are you going to tell
                        me that he was a German spy?"
                    "Far from it, sir. He was a British secret service agent. His name
                        was Bridgeford. He was killed by an automobile, but not accidentally as you
                        have been led to believe. We have been looking for the driver of that car
                        for two weeks. Last night we got him. He has confessed. Since six
                        o'clock this evening three other men have been arrested,all
                        subordinate figures in the game. Before morning we expect to land at least
                        one or two of the principal members of the shrewdest gang of spies operating
                        in the name and interest of the Kaiser."
                    "Including my wife," said Carstairs, lifting his eyebrows.
                    Jones allowed the remark to pass without comment.
                    
                    "Bridgeford,or Hodges, as you knew him,was sent to this city from
                        London. For a long time he worked independently. A few days before his
                        death, we received instructions from Washington to get in touch with him.
                        That was the first we knew of him, I'll confess. The British
                        Foreign Office advised our department that he had finally got hold of
                        something big and tangible. But evidently the German Foreign Office also was
                        wise to him. He reported to us on the afternoon of the day he was killed. He
                        said that the time was not yet ripe to take positive steps, but that he
                        would soon have the goods on four or five prominent people. He gave us the
                        names of these people. Two of them he was sure about, the others were in
                        doubt. Believe me, they were prominent. We were to hold
                        off till he said the word. That night he was killed. But they
                        didn't do it soon enough. We had all his data, incomplete as it
                        was, and we've followed it up. That's why I am here this
                        evening."
                    He paused; and Carstairs said, harshly:
                    "Well, go on,why do you hesitate?"
                    
                    "We know now, beyond all possible doubt, that information of the
                        most vital character has reached the German Admiralty and the Foreign Office
                        through Mrs. Carstairs," said Jones deliberately.
                    "I may be pardoned if I repeat that it is a damned lie,"
                        said Carstairs, gripping the arms of his chair.
                    "You have said just what you were expected to say, Mr. Carstairs.
                        Before I have finished, however, you will realize that it is not a damned
                        lie. I am authorized to exhibit certain memoranda from the Department. You
                        will then agree with us that the information came from this house,from this
                        apartment, in fact."
                    "In the light of what happened last night, I may go so far as to
                        concede that such may have been the case. Permit me to remind you of the
                        suicide of Captain"
                    He broke off abruptly, struck by the expression in the other's face.
                        Jones shook his head slowly. There was genuine distress in his voice when he
                        spoke.
                    
                    "Captain Steele was murdered, Mr. Carstairs," he said.
                        "He did not kill himself."
                    Carstairs sprang to his feet. For an instant a flash of joy transfigured his
                        face.
                    "By 'gad, I knew it,I knew it! I would have staked my soul
                        on that boy's honour. Murdered? My God! And for what hellish
                        purpose is his name blackened by the foul reports given to the press by
                        your"
                    "A very grave injustice has been done an honourable
                        gentleman," interrupted Jones, with real feeling. "Captain
                        Steele was murdered by assassins in the employ of persons connected with the
                        German Government. When I have finished my story,I shall make it brief,you
                        will understand that, far from being a traitor to his country, Derrol Steele
                        was a patriot who would not have hesitated to denounce" He withheld
                        the words that rose to his lips in vindication of the maligned officer.
                        "A careful search of his rooms today resulted in the discovery of a
                        document in his own handwriting, written after he left your apartment last
                        night, and put under lock and key some time 
                        
                            CARSTAIRS SPRANG TO HIS PEET. FOR AN
                                    INSTANT A FLASH OF JOY TRANSFIGURED HIS FACE.
                        
                         prior to the arrival of the assassins. I have
                        a copy of it with me. You will observe that he does not make definite
                        accusations against any one, and that he employs initials only in
                        designating the persons involved. He goes no farther than to express his own
                        misgivings, his suspicions and certain observations that prove how keenly
                        alive he was to thereal situation. Sit down, Mr. Carstairs, and look over
                        these papers. Begin here, sir,with the data obtained by the man you knew as
                        Hodges. I beg to assure you, in advance, that my superiors entertain no
                        thought that you were at any time cognizant of what has been going on in
                        your own home, and there is the profoundest desire on their part to spare
                        you"
                    "Enough, Sir! Let me see the papers."
                    "Just a moment, please. There is one gap in the sequence of events
                        leading up to the death of Captain Steele. We are confident that the leaders
                        of this great conspiracy were warned late last night that Captain Steele
                        suspected a certain person, but we have been unable to discover by what
                        means, or through whom, this  warning was
                        delivered. The men under arrest, with the exception of the chauffeur,
                        absolutely refuse to make a statement of any kind, and he, we are confident
                        does not know who the go-between was. All he knows,or thinks, at least,is
                        that he and his pals were doublecrossed last night bywell, by Mrs.
                        Carstairs."
                    Davenport Carstairs read the papers placed in his hands by the Secret Service
                        man. One by one, they fell from his stiff, trembling fingers, fluttering to
                        the floor, each in its succeeding turn. At the end, he looked not into
                        Jones's eyes, but past them, and from his own the light was gone.
                    "Will you ask your wife to come in now, Mr. Carstairs?"
                        said Jones, a trifle unsteadily.
                    Carstairs stared at him for a moment, unseeingly. Then he passed his hand
                        over his eyes as if to clear them of something revolting. The moment was
                        tense, spasmodie, prophetic of approaching collapse. The strength and
                        courage and confidence of the man had sustained a shock that made ruin of
                        them all. He wondered  dumbly whether he would
                        ever have the power and the desire to lift his head again and look into the
                        eye of this man who sat there with him. The whole fabric of existence was
                        torn to shreds by the merciless revelations contained in the papers he had
                        read with the steel in his heart. They were complete, irrefutable
                        indictments. There was no such thing as going behind them. Steele's
                        blighting conjectures suddenly became truths of the most appalling nature;
                        the astonishing record of Hodges the butler laid bare a multitude of
                        secrets; the brief, almost laconic summing-up of facts in the possession of
                        the Department took the heart out of his body and scorched it with
                        conviction,for he knew that the Secret Eye had looked into the very soul of
                        the woman he loved and cherished and trusted. ...
                    "If you do not object, I will speak with heralone," said
                        he, lifelessly. He struggled to his feet, and, by the mightiest effort of
                        the will, lifted his head and fixed his haggard eyes upon the face of the
                        man who had cast the bomb at his  feet:a far
                        more potent agent of destruction than any that Germany herself had ever
                        hurled! It was to destroy heaven and earth for him.
                    Jones, cleared his throat.
                    "That is for you to decide, Mr. Carstairs," he said, and
                        there was something significant in his voice and manner. "Will you
                        take these documents"
                    "No. I do not wish her to see them. Be good enough to step into the
                        drawing-room,and wait. This waythrough this door. And please call your
                        companion. It is not necessary for him to stand guard over her. You have my
                        word that she shall not escape."
                    "We are to respect your wishes in every particular, Mr. Carstairs.
                        The authorities appreciate your position. It is their desire to spare you,
                        if possible, the disgrace, the pain" He stopped.
                    "I think I understand," said Davenport Carstairs slowly. A
                        moment later he was alone.
                    Presently he unlocked and opened a small drawer in his desk. He took out
                        something that glittered, examined it carefully, and then stuck  it into his coat pocket. His jaws were set;
                        in his eyes lay the hard, cold light of steel.
                    He did not falter.
                    She had not been fair with him, but he would be fair with her. He would stand
                        by her to the end. ... She should have her chance. He would see to it that
                        the newspapers,and the world,dealt kindly with her. He had loved her.
                    If possible, he would see to it that he was the only one in all the world to
                        hate her.
                    He went to her room.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    
                        FAR in the night he said to her:
                    "It is the only way. I shall leave you to yourself now, Frieda. The
                        rest is with God and you. Tomorrow morning they will take you away. They
                        maythey probably will shoot you as a spy. I cannot save you,nothing that I
                        can do will be of avail in turning aside or tempering the wrath of
                        Justice."
                    She sat, limply, with bowed head. Her fine body seemed to have shrivelled;
                        emptied of its vitality, it had shrunk as with age before his eyes.
                        Everything that had fed her blood for years seeped away, leaving a waste of
                        sunken flesh: pride, arrogance, defiance, and, last of all, fury,all had
                        gone out of the house of her soul. There was nothing left but the pitiful
                        thing called life.
                    She raised her eyes.
                    "I cannot take your way out, Davenport,"
                        she said dully.
                    
                    He pointed to the revolver he had laid on her dressing-table.
                    "That, Frieda, is the only friend you have in all
                        this world tonight."
                    "Oh, my God! Are you heartless? Have you no pity, no love,
                        no"
                    "I have pity,nothing more. Love? I have given you love for twenty
                        years and more. You have defiled it. Do not speak of love!"
                    "You know I love youyou know I would die for you a thousand times
                        over. You are my man,my master, my"
                    "Enough, Frieda! You have played a great game,but an ignoble one,and
                        you have lost. You have begged me toto become your executioner. You ask me
                        to kill you. You"
                    "I do not ask it now," she broke in, looking him full in
                        the eye. "Go, Davenport. Leave me to myself. Thank you forfor being
                        kind to me tonight,after all. I have told you the truth,you know everything
                        that my conscience permits me to reveal. You know more than that man who
                        sits out there like a vulture, waiting forwaiting for me.
                        What I have confessed  to you I would die a
                        thousand times over rather than confess to another living soul. They could
                        take me away tonight and torture me till I died, and not one word of what I
                        have said to you would pass my lips. They know enough, but you alone know
                        all. You say the world will never know what I have done. I do not care. Let
                        the world know. I am proud of my bloodI rejoice in the little I have been
                        able to do for"
                    "Hush! Do not say it."
                    "Very well. It hurts you. I do not want to hurt you now, husband.
                        The world is to believe that Ithat an accidenta sudden" She buried
                        her face in her hands. Her body shook.
                    "I would spare your son, Frieda," said he.
                    She looked up, dry-eyed. A quick flash,could it have been of joy?lighted her
                        haggard face.
                    "Yes, yes,he must be spared," she cried. A deep,
                        inscrutable expression came into her eyes. She drew a deep, full breath.
                        "Thank God! He is young,he has a long and useful life to live. I
                        gave it him. That is the best, the  biggest
                        thing I have done. Now, go, Davenport. Shall we saygood-night?"
                    The following day,in the noon issuesall of the New York evening papers
                        printed, under varied headlines, the details, so far as available, of the
                        shocking accident which resulted in the death of Mrs. Davenport Carstairs.
                        She had fallen from a window in her bed-chamber to the brick-paved courtyard
                        ten stories below. Death was instantaneous. "Accidental,"
                        was the prompt decision of the coroner.
                    Deduction readily established the fact. Mrs. Carstairs must have become ill
                        in the night. A bottle of smelling salts was found on the floor near the
                        window which was open to the full. Evidently, she had gone to the window for
                        air. After opening it wide, a sudden faintness or dizziness caused her to
                        topple forward. ... Before retiring for the night, she had complained to her
                        husband of a dull, throbbing headache, due, no doubt, to anxiety over the
                        alarming illness of her niece, Miss Hansbury. ... Sometime after one
                        o'clock, Mr. Carstairs,  in the
                        adjoining bed-room, heard her moaning as if in pain. He arose instantly and
                        opened the connecting door. She was lying on her bed, and, in response to
                        his inquiry, begged him not to worry about her. Dr. Browne, called in to
                        attend Miss Hansbury, had decided to remain for the night. He was lying down
                        in a guest-chamber, and had fallen asleep.
                    Uneasy over his wife's condition, Mr. Carstairs awoke the physician
                        and together they returned to her room. A knock on the door brought no
                        response,but some relief in the thought that she was asleep. The husband
                        opened the door slightly and listened. There was no sound. He entered the
                        room, which was dark, and approached the bed. Then, he called out to the
                        doctor to switch on the lights. ... A cold icy draft,the Night-Wind,rushing
                        into the room through the open window. ...
                    Continuing, the papers spoke profoundly of the great loss to society, of the
                        qualities that made Mrs. Davenport Carstairs one of the most sincerely
                        beloved women in all the great city, of her prominence in the conduct of
                        important  war charities and reliefs, of her
                        unswerving devotion to the cause for which America and her sons were
                        fighting, of her manifold charms and graces. Her untimely death created a
                        void that could never be filled. Eulogy upon eulogy!
                    Among the hundreds of telegrams of condolence received by Davenport Carstairs
                        was one from Mr. Paul Zimmerlein, couched in most exquisite terms, conveying
                        tribute to the dead and sympathy to the living. It was sent on the second
                        day from the smart club to which he belonged; on the third flowers went up
                        with his card. ...
                    As business went on as usual at the offices of Mr. Paul Zimmerlein, it would
                        be sheer presumption to even suggest that this unhappy chronicle has reached
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
